ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u1	Please take your seats. [[Murmurs.]] Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. Provision of an oath or promise of acceptance and fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia by a new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before the agenda comes the inclusion of a preliminary point, which is the promise or oath of the new Mrs Maria de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte. In accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, a request is made for the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Member, Ms. Maria de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte, to replace Ms. Beatriz Sestayo Doce. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "Yes, I swear" or "Yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. And I'm begging you to answer the question I'm going to ask you: Mrs. Maria de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u4	The promise is given, the full condition of the Galician Parliament and we welcome you. Thank you very much. We move on to the next point, already on the agenda of the particular day, of legislative texts. Full debate of the draft law on transparency and good governance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u5	Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela spoke for the presentation of the project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u6	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today you present to the Galician Council in this House a law that meets a commitment expressed by the President of Galician Union in his January parliamentary presence this same year. At that meeting you will remember that the President of the Board has committed up to five legal texts with the objective of giving a democratic impetus in Galicia to the functioning of our institutions. Three of them are already approved today and the other two, including what is presented today, are already in this House for its processing. It has therefore shown that this commitment was serious, manifested itself with a willingness to do so, which is so much so as to say with a willingness to fulfil the objective that was expressed when it was expressed, that it was to regain the confidence of citizenship in public institutions. It is therefore not only a change of attitude, but it is the establishment of concrete legal measures that improve our democratic quality and therefore endorse that desire to change attitudes. I think it's important here to talk about the quality of democracy that we want. It's not a matter of looking at how it is done in some places to plebiscites that everything they want to legitimate and that everything is trying to hide it, it's not just a matter of saying that the Government that has the most votes is the Government, therefore, that it has all the power to do what it desires without more. In the end, the most democratic government, the Government that promotes a more quality democracy, is that government that decides within legality to establish more limitations. Government, therefore, is limited by law, limited by the institutions that have to exercise counter-power and primarily limited by the freedoms that all and every one of the members of the citizenship on which they govern, over which we rule. Therefore, from that concept of democracy – that is the concept of democratic quality that drives this law – we have developed this programme of democratic impulse that is based – as I say – on control and the very limitation of power. The Act of Judiciary Services of the Union, which has just entered Parliament, will extend the internal control of legality over the decisions of the Government. The reform of the Law of the Board of Auditors and the Law on the financing of approved parties expand the capacities of external control bodies on political activity. The law of citizen participation in Parliament will provide citizens with new methods of indirect control through the parliamentary initiatives it decides to exercise. And finally, this new Transparency Act will guarantee direct control mechanisms for the citizenship of public activity. This is therefore a bill designed for citizenship and not intended for the power of governments acting on citizenship. The Government imposes, above all, obligations, limitations and light on its actions; citizenship on the contrary; and as it could not be otherwise, it guarantees rights, information and a controlled government that decides to self-limit itself. That's why from the very first moment, we've wanted to build this bill with citizenship, asking for contributions to citizenship. Immediately afterwards, and as a result of the presence of the President of the Board, a forum of participation was enabled to receive these suggestions in character prior to the drafting of the preliminary draft. And from here I want to thank all those people and groups who have participated in this process for their collaboration. This was, of course, decisive, very good ideas to regulate without going further to the re-use and accessibility requirements of the information that is published, the characteristics of the independent control body or the relationship of high office to companies before and after their entry into government. All of these were contributions that he made to citizenship when asked for it. So, with these approaches and many more during these months, a preliminary draft law was drafted which was re-submitted to public exposure, which was forwarded to all entities affected by allegations and which finally arrived at this House based on four core action axes: that of active advertising, that of the right to access, that of the rules of incompatibilities and the regulation of the transitional period between governments. With regard to the first of the axes, that of the active advertising, to say that I believe that it is what we have been most advanced so far, thanks in large part to the law that had already existed since 2006, the law passed during the Bipartisan Government, which was unanimously passed in this Parliament and therefore welcomed by all political groups, and which already detailed at that time a number of obligations to publish information on the Internet, as early as 2006. But, no doubt, this bill, which now presents itself, is supposed to advance with respect to that model, for many reasons, has also passed almost ten years, and now the publication of this data extends to new subjects. For example, to all dependent entities in Galicia, before they were excluded in the law of 2006 and, no doubt, this was an important asset, it also extends to the statutory organs and also to universities, which were previously also excluded. In addition, information from the autonomic public sector will overcome the current dispersal, which makes it difficult to consult and access citizenship; it will be centralized on a single portal, which will also have guarantees of accessibility, updating and preferential dissemination in open and reusable formats. I insist: this is a direct contribution of citizenship in the consultation period. It's therefore about taking steps to increase information at the citizen's permanent disposal. It's been doing so a long time ago, as shown by the International Transparency, which is the body that evaluates this matter in all state administrations. And it has to be said that your score on the information you've been offering to the Galician Union has not stopped increasing in these years, as it has risen from 87 points in 2010, to 90 points in 2012 and to 94 over 100 in 2014. I mean, they're taking themselves over these years, as on the other hand was our obligation, fundamental steps and now is the time to take the big step forward with the adoption of this law. What are you going to do? For example, increase the transparency of our parallel administration. It's already increased in 2009, forcing dozens of people who used to make it not to integrate their budgets into the general budgets of the Board, we've already approved the salaries of the directors of all these entities, and we've not only audited all of the entities that had the Board of Galicia, but from now on they have to do it periodically, and it's not going to be a voluntary thing. We are now also legally obliged to have the salaries of the executive staff, their program contracts and their action plans published on the website. The citizenry, of course, has the right to know what these are doing and how much it costs. We will also increase the transparency of legislative activity. We have approved for the first time in the history of autonomy guidelines on regulatory techniques, which were very necessary and which will make our legal order more homogeneous, with similar processing criteria for all standards and therefore more understandable for citizenship. We are now going to force, also by law, to maintain access to all relevant legislation, to keep it accessible to citizenship, to be not dispersed and to be able to consult easily, as well as to publish texts of the judicial resolutions that affect the vigil of these norms and also those that affect their interpretation. And this, of course, especially for those citizens who develop their activity in the legal system, is a mechanism that will greatly facilitate access and information about our legislative body. There will also be greater transparency in public employment. A law has already been passed which restricts free appointment in intermediate positions, the Public Employment Act, and now legally we will also be obliged to publish in the Transparency Portal information on the personnel of the public at any time, information on the regulatory agreements of the labour committees and collective agreements, information on public job offers, on the personnel selection processes and on the number and cost of the union released. Transparency will also be increased in the Union's contractual activity. The Galician Contract Platform has already been launched. And the effective improvement and negotiation of the negotiated procedures has already been approved this year, and this new law will now have to publish also the composition of the contracting tables and the formalization of all contracts that formalise or sign the Galician Union. There will also be greater transparency in urbanism. Already the law of the soil being processed will force you to make the most of each step of the processing of a sorting instrument, but in addition to this Transparency Act it will be ensured that the Transparency Portal is at the disposal of the citizenry all general plans for municipal management, all its modifications and all its revisions updated in real time and in an easy way for you to consult. In total, therefore, more than 50 elements are included than have already been required by the Greek law of 2006 and by the basic legislation of the State which has been approved not long ago. With regard to the second axis, citizens' right of access, it must be thought that even though it is very wide, it is true – as I said – that the range of information that will be available on the network, the true qualitative leap in respect of previous legislation is the regulation of the right of access to public information. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a law on the Galician board's website where the Administration is, the German Government is the only one who decides what hangs, what doesn't hang, but it's a law of rights where citizenship will decide which information you want to access, when you want access and how you want access to all the information. This right, which is true that it was first regulated in the State through the Basic Transparency Law, will be complemented, it will be reinforced in this bill, since it incorporates several of the recommendations that mark international transparency organisations. For example, it incorporates the right of citizenship to which public personnel orient and advises those administered for the exercise of this right of access to information, incorporates the allocation to a body independent of proven and contrasting, to the institution of the People's Valedor, the power to monitor compliance with this law and the role of resolving citizens' claims about information denied to it once it requests it. And it also incorporates a provision of sanctions for public officials who violate this right of access to the citizen. So by incorporating these precepts, the right of access will be substantially reinforced. In fact, if we adhere to the sixty indicators, which are also very accurate, that the Access Info organization uses to score the different transparency laws that exist throughout the world, this bill would even surpass the legislation of countries with quality of access to contrasted information, such as the United States, Canada or the Netherlands. This law would overcome them in those indicators, which – I say – are absolutely accurate and very easy to measure. It therefore maintains the essential foresight of the basic regulations I referred to earlier, that the request for information does not have to be motivated, and that the same limits are maintained for the right to access, which are none other than those set out in the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Public Documents, and which are also very limited limits, in order to promote the better possible access to the information requested. We seek in this law a change of paradigm or culture regarding the action of the Administration. Now it must be the Administration that is obliged to adapt, not the citizen to the Administration, but the Administration to the citizen, and that is why we also regulate the organizational changes, which will undoubtedly be needed within the autonomous public sector to respond effectively to new legal obligations. As a result, a fundamental right is regulated that until now the Welsh legislation did not recognize and that now it does, and reinforces itself with all those guarantee mechanisms that were not in the basic legislation. I mean, this law improves the basic law of transparency. This is the great qualitative leap to which I had previously referred: to consider that public information is the property of citizenship rather than of the Government, which simply custody and facilitates its consultation. Regarding the third axis, that of the incompatibilities, it has to be said that significant progress has also been made. The Incompatibilities Act of the Autonomous Community was on its way to 20 years of vigil, so it was clear that it was the right time for it to be updated on the occasion of the adoption of a Transparency Act. Of course, at a time when citizenship is justifiably showing its concern about the phenomenon, for example, of rotational doors, this bill takes decisive steps in this direction. The citizenry will know where they come from and what situation all the people who enter high office do. It will therefore be compulsory to include in the public declaration of activities performed in the preceding two years and business participations also in the years prior to the exercise as high office, and also to make public a capital declaration at the time of appointment of any high office. But also citizenship will know – this is an important novelty – what situation they are in and, above all, where those same people go. Therefore, a second capital statement will be required at the time of termination, in which one can see the property changes produced, if it were to occur, and also the communication to the Office of Incompatibilities of any destination after the termination. And it will be this autonomous body responsible for deciding whether or not there is a conflict of interest in that new destination and if it is not found and if it does not allow it to make public its decision not to authorize it and its reasons. But besides that internal-external control at the moments of entry and exit, also that extreme control of high office during your exercise. You are obliged to assume the high charge of abstention in any matter involving a company in which he or his spouse was bound in the two years prior to the taking of possession, you require the high charge of adherence to the ethical and constitutional code, which is further shielded by law, and there are sanctions, both of disability, i.e. sanctions in the administrative field, as well as sanctions in the economic system, for those people who violate the obligations of incompatibility and avoid conflicts of interest that are collected in the law. And finally, the last axis, which regulates the transcription between governments. To say that a government regulation is established in functions, what they can do, especially what they can't do and the mechanisms for the transfer of powers. This did not assess it by legislation, which was necessary to resolve and that it was even an electoral commitment to its resolution on the part of the party that supports the Government. So I clearly indicate, so that there is no doubt about it, since there was some doubt about the vigil of the law, that this government will be the first in the history of autonomy to see limited its actions in the period that touches it in function. So next year, when the House is dissolved, this government will not be able to compromise the following, be the Government whatever it is, either signing agreements, or convening public squares, or acquiring extraordinary spending commitments, thanks to the entry into force of this law. So it is not legislate for the next government, as one of the amendments to the whole, one of the arguments gathered in the amendments to the whole. Better said, only one point is made: the following government, – I insist – is the party it is, will also be the first in Galician history to receive a management report in which so important and so fundamental things are detailed to carry out future tasks, such as the economic situation that leaves the government out, the situation of the administration's staff, and all the obligations that it is subject to by the conventions or contracts that are in force at the time of the transfer of powers. With this law passed, therefore, opacity in the power transfer process will be impossible. So, ladies and gentlemen, and in short, these are the substantial advances that take place in these four axes where I tried to summarize everything that contains the law: expanded, accessible and reusable public data; right to enhanced and free access, right to access and information; hard and transparent incompatibilities; and clear guidelines for the transition between governments. I want to point out that every step I've taken is the first time that we've considered a legal text in the history of our autonomy. Therefore, our opinion, the view of the German Government, is that there are more than enough reasons to allow the parliamentary process of this law to be dealt with in Parliament, so that this law is debated in Parliament and, therefore, if it follows the spirit which has unanimously encouraged the adoption of the last law dealing with these issues nearly ten years ago. So we simply aspire to repeat that unanimity, we sincerely hope that the amendments that are made during the parliamentary processing period will enrich this text, which is undoubtedly likely to be enriched, and therefore we hope that the objective pursued by the collaboration and verification of this law, which is that citizenship trusts and fully trusts in its institutions, is achieved with the effort of all, with the contributions of all and with the final result that it satisfies everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u7	Thank you very much. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u8	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr Vice-President, I also hope that in the process of this law amendments will be incorporated and enriched, but above all I hope the People's Party will accept some, because it is normal that there is no unanimity because the People's Party does not accept any or almost any of the amendments to the opposition. That is, if you really want to come to a law of transparency in consensus, you can start by opening up to hear the opposition and accept its amendments. This bill is far from ensuring full transparency in government action, in addition to fleeing from using the law itself to encourage citizen participation, public interest in government action, linking this law with the rights and duties set out in the Citizenship Act. Thus, the principle of transparency itself is reduced to something as general as public activity, but there is no reference, for example, to transparency in public management. Among the guiding principles are several that I consider to be elementary, such as the principle of reciprocity in information with citizenship or the principle of linguistic normalization. Of course, the language normalization that you always forget. He does not seek the Government's obligation to inform citizens of the government's planning and its strategic commitments for each legislation, with the objective that citizenship can speak in relation to them and evaluate its social, economic and environmental impact, prior to its execution or legal amendment or enactment of the legislation necessary to bring forward the aforementioned Government's planning. Thus, no regulation or relationship of quality standards, good practices and corporate social responsibility that apply and on the evaluation of these standards appears in the bill; no quality indicators or quality control mechanisms are established through continuous evaluation, whose report is at the disposal of citizenship. In its scope, companies providing services to the Administration are not covered, but are, however, public money managers. Nor does it contemplate its application to the Church, at least as far as the management of the public money it manages. And public foundations are also excluded within their scope. In addition, as regards public procurement obligations, there are several levels of information which are not collected, such as the extensions granted in tenders or their cost for administration and their justification. In order to guarantee the right to information to all citizens, the right to send and receive all documentation in formats compatible with free software and in traditional paper format should be considered. When it comes to staff reporting obligations, try to disparaging trade union organizations with nominal distribution of time credit and the costs that originate. I do not oppose the publication of the number of libertees and institutional releases, their trade union distribution and total labour costs, but I find it indecent to make nominal distributions, because they are according to the professional category of each liberated or released union, and there are no differences in the remuneration of the rest of the workers and public workers of the same category. In any event, the information should also include the legal right to union representation, the importance of its work and the legality of the assistance of liberated and liberated trade unions. And despite the thorough information that is intended to be given in relation to the legal representation of workers and workers, the bill does not guarantee transparency in all matters relating to the recruitment of staff by the Administration, such as, for example, services commissions, subcontracted staff, implementing agreements for employees of companies with public participation or working for the Greek Public Administration. There is also a lack of information on eventuality rates in the Government of Greece, movement of recruitment lists, duration of temporary contracts, part-time recruitment and many other issues. As far as specific requirements for information on citizenship are concerned, there is a lack of information on the establishment of concerts with private companies for essential public services such as health, education, social services or transport, as well as public works adjudication, public-private partnerships and the privatization of public services. The obligation to provide information on the provision of public services and agreements forgets any information relating to compliance with standards of quality of services and employment in concessionary undertakings. Even so, the bill does not raise any obligations regarding the publication of health, structural and non-structural waiting lists, health waiting lists – for example, in the concerted centre of Povisa – the student who cannot access public education squares, the student who cannot access support services for students with special needs, the waiting list in social services, the waiting list in Risk, in day-care centres, in juvenile centres, in senior residences. That is, lack of information, and economic and budgetary information is reduced to minimum information on decisions already made, about which citizenship cannot influence, because it is not given instruments to do so. So it's worth transparency if that transparency isn't also associated with the possibility that citizenship will assess, control and can correct or propose alternatives to government action. The commitment to information on land and environment management could not be less, not even collecting the concept of the environment, by referring only to environmental information on water quality and greenhouse gas emissions. There's the question of whether you're talking about water, surface water, groundwater, continental water, marine water or all water. It would be essential that the environmental status of rivers and rivers in Greece — which is not included in the draft law either — should be made public, as would its degree of pollution, the main contaminant, the plans to fight against detected pollution, the investment that will be carried out in each one, the responsibilities that fall depending on each act of breach or deterioration of the environment and the distribution of the charges that will lead to its recovery. Consider the possibility that the reuse of documents published on the Transparency Portal will have commercial purposes, something which questions up to the Board of Auditors. It cannot be stated in a law that free public information, paid by all the Greeks and the Greeks, can be used for economic and commercial purposes. As for the rights of citizens of access to public information, the right to recast requests is not collected; the deadlines for answering the Administration are excessive; it does not include any body guaranteeing compliance with this law, granting the said responsibility to the valator or valuator of the people, who, however, are not given instruments to carry out this work; consideration is not established as persons with interest in requested information, nor the importance of motivating the request. In addition, all requests for information by the citizen should be made public that have been rejected and their motivation, because the bill is already responsible for limiting to the extreme the information to which they are entitled and not to citizenship, such as, for example, the High Charity Heritage Register, which will have a reserved character. Therefore, the high office will become known to one side and another will have reserved character. We're on an election campaign, the People's Party has already got corruption to its ears, and it's looking for oxygen with empty content propaganda laws, but with great headlines. So much so that infringements do not include those relating to unjustified denial of information to citizenship, something that would be important, because if not citizenship is not protected when the information is denied. Therefore, that denial must be justified in delivering the information to the citizenry. In addition, the bill is very imprecise, and many of its articles, repeating verbs like "power", or sanctions that range from a minimum to a maximum, without specifying on what criteria those minimums and maximums are applied, which creates a genuine legal insecurity. The current Legislative Government for the following, since it excludes from the application of this law the formalized contracts, agreements signed or grants granted prior to the entry into force of this law. Which means they'll have to hide something. The normal thing would be that all existing contracts, all existing concessions and all the management in force of the current Government would automatically be incorporated and first of all on that transparency page so that citizens could evaluate the work of the current Government, and much more so when it remains so little for elections to the Greek Parliament, that surely that information, if it is really transparent and true, would give them a lot of votes. The bill also escapes from establishing the mechanisms necessary for denial of information required by citizenship to be an exception, which must always be duly justified. He simply gathered that one can answer or that one can deny the answer, but the denial of the answer to citizenship had to be something very exceptional, and so it should be stated in the law, and that this refusal had to be very justified so that the person to whom it was denied could claim and demand his answer on the basis of that justification. If we join this lack of commitment to establishing that administrative silence is understood as denial of information, it is clear that this bill will not respond to the social claim of transparency in public proceedings, and therefore we will be faced with a bill of clear electoral intent. Administrative silence should always record, when it is a request for information from the citizen, not as a negative sense, but as an obligation for the Government to give priority to responding to such requests for information. But even in the election campaign, the People's Party is not able to present a bill in which sexist language is not used. This is already a scandal. That all the bills tabled in this Parliament take the amendment of corrective speech that is denigrating. Where do you have your heads? With everything that's going on... and at the entrance, I want to send a sympathetic greeting to the families of the murdered women this weekend in the state and the murdered woman in Vigo, and my rejection for the treatment being given in the press to this news. With regard to Vigo's wife, who was pulled from a balcony, the news in the press was that she fell. Women don't fall from the balconies. And I think that you, who are responsible for this area, should of course have a maximum seriousness demanding the media to deal with these issues as they should. And also, in this Transparency Act, information should be included on gender-based violence, the actions of the Government, the investments of the Government, and all that refers to the fight against the scourge in this government. But it is clear that the People's Party is sexist, the People's Party is macho, and the People's Party does not defend women, because if not, they would have already demanded and demanded the resignation of Mr. Baltar and his expulsion from the People's Party. So I regret the macho of the People's Party and I regret that this law has not been born with more ambition and more desire to give and grant to the citizen the right to public information and transparency in all government management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Vice-President of the Galician Union. As the vice-president said in his defense of this bill, it stems from that debate which took place in this Parliament at the end of January this year, with which Mr Núñez Feijóo intended to put an end to any political debate on corruption in our country; with which he intended to legitimately continue to hibernate the Commission on Prevention and Measures against Corruption that exists in this Parliament and which continues without having a dictatorship after many appearances have taken place in this Parliament, some - or many - in relation directly to transparency in the exercise of public office and public administration. Unfortunately, after almost more than ten months since that appearance of the President of the Council of Galicia took place, we can affirm almost with total roundness, and the content of this Law of transparency and good governance which today brings us to this whole debate, which practically all the measures formulated in that plenary end up being purely cosmetic. We can point out, for example, that, as a result of that debate, a reform of this House's Rules of Procedure has not even substantially improved the information mechanisms for Members and Members, and in which the People's Party has maintained its refusal to introduce any transparency measures in the law governing the functioning of this Parliament, or the participation of the citizenry, because it is supposed to come into the Transparency Act, and today we see that in the Transparency Act little comes to that, nor does it even lay down the obligation that the Register of Parliament, in those matters which simply have to do with the normal functioning of Parliament, be public, no longer only for citizenship, but it is not even public for the formally and legally accredited media. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, among many other reasons, it is why since the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we have formulated this amendment for return, because we believe that this bill which today begins its parliamentary journey essentially follows the doctrine or the path drawn up in the prevailing law in this very matter in the Spanish State, and that even though the two – which is already two years old – were born at a time of important demands, to improve the participation and control capacity by the citizenry of all public affairs, however, from our point of view, what is adopted is a model of transparency that is absolutely outdated, both in relation to the aspirations of most society and in which it does not take into account relevant models in other far more advanced states in the area of transparency. It is curious that even in this law, which is almost two years old since the entry into force of the state law, it has not even bothered anyone who has drawn up this bill to see the deficiencies that existed in the current applicable law to try to modify them through the approval of this law, and we are faced with a simple one, we could say – to speak quickly and plainly –, transfer of the content of that law to the autonomous legislative framework. Of course, we believe that through this bill there are no standards that can be approved with the rest of the consolidated democracies. It also matches the position of the Council of Europe. In recent years it has been producing a progressive reinforcement of the right of access to public information which had its turning point in 2009, coinciding with the recognition by the European Court of Human Rights as an integral part of a fundamental right, the freedom of expression and information, enshrined in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in connection with Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are therefore faced with a right which, in the Spanish legislative framework, does not have the fundamental right, but neither does the Galician Union – and the People's Party through this bill, in the sphere of competence of the Galician Union – consider; it does not give the fundamental right to the right of citizenship to obtain all the information, to access to public information. It is not even recognized in the law – from our point of view – which is really the subject that has the right to access to public information, whether they are only natural or legal persons directly or collectively represented through associations or organizations. Therefore, we are before a law, from our point of view, very defective. We would like to answer a number of questions in this debate. In recent years we have seen important social scandals that scandalize citizenship in terms of how public resources are used, with how, from the point of view of different administrations, political decisions have been used, not only those directly related to how and in which their public resources are spent, but also with decisions in the legal field, in the regulatory field, which have scandalized citizenship. We have witnessed a growing process of privatization of public services, we have witnessed an ever-increasing increase in the amount of public resources that, by one way or another, are being managed or executed by companies or private entities and we have been watching, or are still attending, the important public scandals that have plagued citizenship and that come as a result of this derivation of public resources towards the private sphere, which is where it has been the biggest growing stock of all the corruption cases that we are experiencing today. And yet most of those areas that they manage, that they end up managing, a very relevant portion of the public resources of the budgets of the Galician Union, are not subject to compliance with that law. They are therefore beyond any possibility of criminalization on the part of the citizenry. I'd like to ask you a few questions in this regard: Does anyone believe that, if this bill were approved in terms of what is currently being drafted, for example, would prevent the future president of the Galician Union, when he is publicly aware of his connection with a drug dealer who hired the Government of Galicia, he could conceal from us documentation related to the Golden Marcinal Contracts? For I say yes, that with this law in force this might happen again. Or do you think that with this law in force, with this wording you have today, could you go back to Galician Council to hide contracts with companies in the Gürtel plot, as you have done to this Parliament, to these Members and to citizenship? This law should not have to take account of these contracts. Or ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Vigo hospital is one of the largest infrastructure built in our country, an infrastructure that, if built directly by the Public Administration, would have cost about 400 million euros, which, through the public-private funding chosen by the Galician Union, will cost us all the Greeks and Greeks, about three times more. With this text of transparency and good governance that brings us here today the People's Party do you believe that this Parliament, or that the citizenship of Galician people, or that the groups of users affected by such a deficit hospital, can exercise some kind of control over these more than 1 billion euros that will go into the hands of the company that will manage and build Vigo's hospital? I think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you don't. So it's a law that, as it is now drafted, as it is conceived, does not allow citizenship to really control most of public resources. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the exclusion of the scope of control of this law, for example, of all private entities, organizations or foundations, or even of the Catholic Church, that we all know that much of its functioning remains with public money, remains outside the object of this law. For example, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with this law passed, with the current draft, could a citizen request and receive information about the operation of the Foundation, for example, Camilo José Cela, who receives more than 300,000 euros a year for its operation and who even have to pay his manager's compensation for a bad practice of that foundation without that having any consequences for the return of public resources? Do you think that could be controlled? Or, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why from the banking institutions that we rescue with public money their operation remains outside the scope of control and right to information from citizens and citizens? Some German citizen, with this bill when approved, can ask for information, for example, about how old boxes were used – if that happened in the future – the amount of public resources we gave them? Or with this passed law, in the future, fruit of that merger and the injection of public money to which Abanca is today, do we have any kind of ability to control where all the public resources we gave to that financial entity were stopped? I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. And finally, allow me to take another thought. It's funny how exhaustively this bill regulates transparency in relation to the liberated institutional unions. I think it's barbaric, I think it's very nice that the citizenry has the right to know how much it costs us every union hour of every liberated union in this country. But it is very curious, Mr. Vice-President – you, who is responsible for transparency in this Government – that for seven years has systematically failed to comply with article 17 of the old Transparency Act, which obliged you to tell us how many advisers, how much staff they might have had in the various councils and how much they charged. But what's worse, that exhaustiveness that's asked of the liberated trade unions, I don't see myself in any article of this bill that will be applied to any staff of the Galician Council or advisers. We're not even going to see how much it costs us the high office of public companies. We're not going to see, for example, if Tragsa, instead of being a public company in the state, it becomes a public company in the Union – and nothing prevents that this can happen too in the Union – why are they still hiring high positions at the same time as they do ERE to fire personal? And how much does the high office of public companies cost us in relation to their staff costs or in relation to the works they do? Nor will we be able to monitor citizens, concessionaires or public service contractors. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I believe there is no concrete and forceful measure that can be deduced from this bill to avoid the so-called turning doors. What is more, the very article that regulates incompatibilities and regulates the subsequent re-integration of public charges to the private company allows what comes to be called the rotating doors. Set No Limitation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u11	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u12	...that prevents people who have held public office from benefiting from these public charges when they return to private business, and vice versa. That's why, from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block, this law is absolutely unserviceable, from the point of view of giving citizens more capacity to monitor what is done with their money, what is done with public money. That's why we believe that this law should be returned to the Government and that, if they really believe in transparency, they bring here a law that really gives citizens the fundamental right to obtain information, that cannot be denied without even being motivated, that silence is not negative, and above all they set up real instruments so that this law can be complied with. Because overloading with this responsibility too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u14	...the People's Valley to which it goes is that in practice citizenship when information is denied will be defenseless to the Public Administration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u16	Good morning to all of you. Mr. Vice-President of the Union, this law seems to be an appearance of transparency, because, as you know, it is necessary, or at least it seems that the People's Party has been required to be transparent to the gallery, but, of course – as you know – it is a mere appearance, only this and nothing else. Because really, if I may, this rule, this law is taken directly from the interests of the People's Party, which are deeply economic, which are deeply corrupt and in addition support of this regime. And besides, you know – and from there this context – perfectly that our society has changed, that the 15M has changed everything, it has changed for the good, it has changed to demand all of us and to all transparency. He's changed to tell us that they have the right to know what they spend on public resources and our taxes. It changed to tell us that we want the walls to be glass, that we want public agendas – as Mrs. Ada Colau does at all times – public agendas. That when you sit with a terrible banker talking about politics, it's also public. Obviously none of this is in this law. And it's obvious that this law has the march of state law, it's exactly trapped and captive of the same interests of it. And I'm going to say what interests. Well, that's why the OSCE Convention 252 is clear, Mr Rueda, it's not that we're telling you. OSCE spoke clearly and spoke about the proposal made by the Central Government, which was an absolutely cosmetic law; cosmetics, Vice President of the Galician Union. A law, by the way, or a country and a state in which we have not yet regulated the right to information – as it has already been said – as a fundamental right, and the consequences that it has. And when I say a fundamental right, I speak of this agreement, Mr. Vice-President, which has not yet been ratified by our state or, of course, by this country, and an agreement which speaks very clearly about which are the requirements, standards of quality, of public transparency, but also of information of citizenship to public resources. And this agreement says something substantial, it says that it has the right to citizenship: it has the right to everything that has public interest. This fundamental principle, as a right, as the right to culture, not only the most -- let's say -- prosaic, exist; as the right to culture, the right to information is tangible, Mr. Rueda. And the problem we have in this standard is that it's trapped in two realities, as well as in the state, so let's say that you don't move from that frame. What is it? First, the definition that you give in the first of the precepts of the right to public information is the same as that contained in article 23 of the Constitution; it tells us nothing else. Second, they're playing all the time between legitimate interests, which is an organic law – which is the Data Protection Act – and the right to freedom of expression linked to the right to public information. You know as I do that it's a fundamental principle of law that only by the fact that you're regulated by organic law will always win organic law. So, with the exception that they incorporate into the rule that no kind of information will be given that violates the Data Protection Act – and you know how I now know that is the whole – what can happen to this rule? For example, I can have access – which has happened to Mr. Beiras and more to the AGE Group – to KPMG's information from that so-called audit that was secret and that nobody could be transmitted, have access to it, and if you publish it you can sanction us with this rule, because in fact there is data that this rule says that they are exclusively protected by organic law and therefore cannot be disclosed. I mean, you guys around the back door are telling our country, the Greeks and the Greeks, that they're not going to be entitled to anything, Mr. Rueda, they're not going to be entitled to anything. But not only that, is that we're going to talk clearly about what the norm says. The rule incorporates exceptions in the disclosure itself of very powerful information, Mr. Rueda, and many traps – of course, they are technical issues of law. But, for example, you listen – and that's another one of the great traps – only the right to information that it has to do with administrative acts, with strict administrative law sense. That in administrative society and in the world of the 21st century is as much as saying nothing, because, as it has already been said, much of the activity of the Galician Union is in private hands. This is going to be completely alien to accountability and subject to public control that citizens and citizens of this country have the right to. But not only that, do they cheat because they technically say, loud and clear, that we only have that right in the case of administrative concessions, Mr. Rueda. And the rest of the legal formulas that the Public Administration is working with every day? Second, we're told that we have a right to information on a series of agreements. I'm going to put to you examples of agreements that have confidentiality clauses that you're here are not public access to citizenship. We have recently had – as you know – debate in Commission 1st on this issue with the appearance of the Director General and this spokesman is still waiting. We would like to know the relevant attachments of this very powerful company that governs the Crown called Repsol. A few days ago we were comrade Juan Fajardo and me with the Maricadores and Maricadores of the Coruña, fundamental public health data, Mr. Rueda, where are the attachments? I was told by the director general at the appearance – and I'm not lying, you can see – that there was no problem, that those attachments were at my disposal, that I had to ask them for them at the Harbour Authority. Mr. Rueda, I'm a stubborn woman, so I did, if you want me to put on a sign in the Harbour Authority, but more than six months have passed and I'm still waiting for those attachments that are substantial and that, of course, alarm us when they tell us that they're confidential, Mr. Rueda. Confidential, why? What are we negotiating? What are you talking about in those clauses, Mr. Rueda? But I'm going to put another convention that's very relevant, which costs a pastil to the Greeks and to the Greeks, Mr. Rueda, the Reganosa agreement. Let's see, the late Mr. Fraga signed an agreement – a confidential clause that this vocabulary, of course, divulged – that actually said very interesting things. For example, he told the Greeks and the Greeks in the confidential clauses that in the Tojeiro group’s macro-negotiation and many others – so the late Greek boxes and others – paid Juan Pueblo, Mr. Rueda. Of course, it was confidential, Mr. Rueda, but you are telling us in this norm – with technical rigor, that yes, of course, any citizen or citizen, unless you study law, it will be more complicated, even if you understand perfectly – that all these issues remain outside that norm. So you're actually telling us that we're not going to have any information, because we're arrested, defendants, the economic interests of the People's Party and the confidentiality clauses. But I'm telling you more, Mr. Rueda: we'd like to know what subsidies Pescanova has received, it would be interesting, eh! It is a fundamental question, we would like to know, I say it by parliamentary rigor and by fundamental democratic law. Because what we're talking about is democracy. That's why we don't share this rule. It is that the culture of political transparency and the right to information is a political culture that does not exist in this country, because we have suffered 40 years of franchise. And in practice, by passive, Mr. Rueda, more of the same. That's right, they have a formality, we have one more text that you finish the legislation by saying they published this rule. But I'm telling you, this Council of State, which is not a revolutionary body, speaks of you as cosmetic rules, it's no longer what we say. But more questions, Mr. Rueda. For example, we'd like to know, we talked here about Martial Golden, in that flood we suffered with the documents of Martial Golden. My mother! What an administration we have in a center that was in Vigo, that we don't know what conditions. But, Mr. Rueda, we are asking for comrade Antonio Sánchez and I – who must have been in charge of the president of this House – are asking for the case file every week, Mr. Rueda. Where do the Parliament's failure to comply with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure be published? To be seen by the citizens of this country. Because what is really going to be left to us is actually to judge everything, Mr. Rueda, to start putting demands on the courts so that we at least end the gambling legislation! for I don't know, the file of the merger of the boxes, the documents of Martial Golden, elementary things, because I don't know, that we can have it, because, really, it's impossible. That's right. We'll use the billboard and put us on a sheet in front of the Galician board. Well, more questions. For example, everything that you have to do with all the heritage properties of the Galician Union, the state of it, although it is an obligation by law, is already a norm that obliges you to invent the goods, we know it is unmet, but I say: where will that be regulated? We've talked here about goods and some of them, business of the Catholic Church and other churches. Where are you, Mr. Rueda? Not only the Catholic Church, I have nothing against the Catholic Church; all the churches, the evangelists, all. Where are the business they're doing with us? Because they do it with the Public Service, they sign contracts every day. Where is it, indeed – not only the pursuit of class unions, who are evil – where is everything that has to do with the right to information of other entities that hire every day with the Galician Union? They don't exist. Mr. Rueda, you spoke of the turning doors, of the incompatibility. What reflects this rule is already collected in the norm, is unnecessary. Two years, it doesn't bring anything new. Moreover, what incorporates is very serious – and I won't have much time – because they are legalizing the situations of high officials, who were denounced by this spokesman also in Commission 1a, who are irregularly in the afternoon working in academies and teaching, or even with activities that are clearly incompatibility manifest. And you in this rule allow that to take forward. And in addition, he allows himself to be taken forward, Mr. Rueda, with absolute opacity, because it is the centre, the governing body that resolves on that issue, Mr. Rueda. Of course, it's more surprising, because they also tell us that wages can be matched in two –din, that's yes, maximum – boards of administration. There, Mr. Rueda, things we'll see! Very interesting things. When you incorporate the negative administrative silence, it is – let's say – already preventing any kind of control or accountability by this country's citizenship. Then we're going to talk in the Law about administrative and tax measures more of the same, it's the double cup and a madalena, by Marcel Proust, that's exactly the same. Well, when you say in this rule that silence will be negative, what you're telling the citizen of this country is that you go to the courts to exercise the right to information, Mr. Rueda. I mean, wet paper, it's not worth anything at all. But not only that, Mr. Rueda. This is like the Board of Auditors, that the body that will solve all these issues, or that you intend to give it all these powers, that is, the Valedor, the Valator of the People in this case, is more of the same. It's not an object of this, Mr. Rueda, it's not about that, it's about this other thing, and you, as you know, obviously prevent it from taking it forward. For example, it also affects public subsidies. Well, we'd like, for example, the companies that work the most, almost all of them at Gürtel, with the Greek public administration, the subsidies they receive where they are? Mrs. Micaela Núñez, who really receives public grants, I have the right, Mr. Rueda, to know that, okay? And you in your essay say that, for reasons of honorability of the person, you can't publish this data. I suppose Mrs. Micaela Núñez, by setting an example – I'm talking about Micaela Núñez, if she wants to talk about my father, about whom you want –, for reasons of honorability, Mr. Rueda, says the rule that cannot be given. Of course, we're under the Data Protection Act, the reasons for honorability, ultimately, the reasons why you're going to publish what literally makes them want. The one about compatibility, we don't have a lot of time, but it's hard, uh!, about compatibility with private business and public office. The duty of secret, which, since the change of the Advisory Law, are committed to that question, for more than that. And the most interesting thing is that they're pointing back at two central elements, which you've spoken of as one. He said, of course, this standard will change the organizational model of Joine and the entities. Of course, but again, you ignore this report from the Economic and Social Council – then we will speak in the Law on Administrative Measures – and also tell us in our own rule that this rule is going to be zero cost, or in any case, without determining in economic memory, well, up to where resources are. I mean, more indefinition, insecurity for all of us, impossible. And the most serious thing, Mr. Rueda, is that, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u18	...this standard is opaque for everything you've done, it's within afterwards. That is, you are the factors – and I am finished now, Mr President – that incorporate into this standard the elements that incorporate, in any case, would be for the next Union of Galicia, because you will not be accountable. These reasons, and some more – which I did not have time – obviously force the Gaga de Left Alternative to the return of this text. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u20	Mr. President. Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has not tabled a complete amendment to this law. We understand that it brings the cause of Law 9/2013, of transparency, the State Law of transparency and access to public information and good government, which is a rule that established two years for its application by autonomous communities, which is exactly the next month. The Italian Executive, therefore, today presents, within almost the time limit set, a bill that replaces the rule passed by this Parliament in 2006 and which was then a pioneer initiative in Spain. The text presents remarkable innovations on current practice, also shows that we will try to correct the parliamentary process with partial amendments. But, as happened in 2006, we believe that the force of this law lies in a change of culture in the administration, also in the citizens themselves and in the powers of the Greek people, and that it seems to us that this cultural change must go beyond the differences on some aspects of the text and that it must give priority to a message of commitment with a necessary norm and demanded by society. In order to properly contextualize transparency as we are – said the counsellor in his intervention – it is sufficient to review the indices of the non-governmental organization International Transparency; a work that, as is done in the various institutions of the State, allows us to establish comparisons based on a set of indicators previously known by the evaluated entities themselves. Thus, among the autonomous communities, Galicia has been positioned, from the first position in 2010 to the fifth in 2014, just to acknowledge that as a result of the later integration of autonomous communities into the transparency process they acted with greater decision. If we talk about parliaments, it must be acknowledged that the Galician Parliament is not in a good position – I call the House Bureau's attention in that sense – a tenth position in the whole of the autonomous parliaments. As for the big cities, only three out of seven are above the Spanish average, and only two out of four Spanish deputies exceed that ranking. And if we look at the autonomous bodies analyzed, which are only the managers of hydraulic policies, we find that Galicia occupies the penultimate position. In short, much remains to be done in all areas of the Greek administrations. So, we are faced with a necessary standard, a standard that, as you know, is a prerequisite more than a solution. By itself transparency will not prevent corruption practices or make the Administration more virtuous, but without this rule the situation will be more prone to irregular power deviations and behaviors, as we unfortunately have been enduring. As the representative of the Government and as the spokesperson predictably, the spokesperson of the People's Group extends to the positive or novice aspects of the norm, allow me at this moment to make manifest shortcomings which this group detects or are you who seem to have to be corrected to have a law in line with the demands of today's society. Among the different issues that the law is insufficiently dealing with, in the opinion of this group, I want to stop at some that are at the root of the main causes of corruption in the Administration, according to generalized coincidence. For example, conflicts of interest between the public and the private sector. The rule only addresses this problem. I'll put three good examples documented. First example, health. The pressure capacity of the pharmaceutical industry, health technology companies or hospital resource management companies – hospitals, etc. – is being exercised through different routes. No doubt, as are large business groups, large pharmaceutical groups or service companies that have a great capacity for action, undoubtedly through the information agenda, strongly mediated by the views of these groups in almost inevitable ways. They also influence the training of professionals, through the mechanism of subsidisation of congresses, professional and scientific events, up to a level that has no parallel to any other profession in Spain. They also determine the research agenda, again through their funding capacity. And, on the other hand, there's no need to forget that they're ultimately acting on professionals who have enormous prescription power according to current regulations. By the way, on the action of pharmaceutical groups in hospital research there is minimal transparency at present in our country. And finally, there is political influence through the leadership capture mechanism, a situation that is repeated in countries around us. We have recent evidence of how that vested interest works at Vigo's new hospital. After several years of demanding it, the Board has not yet been able to offer solvent documentation that supports the chosen management formula. As an example, also in the field of health. It's documented as the vaccine conflict gave rise to a formidable business, with the convenance of some professional sectors. I remember some data. If in the United Kingdom 2% of minors were vaccinated against one of these diseases and 7% in France, doses were sold to 90% of minors in Spain. Public administrations took one year to react in a coordinated manner in the face of a clear bias in health policy openly promoted by commercial interests. There are published studies explaining how this mechanism has worked. A remarkable third example is the regulation of the electricity sector. The five major Spanish electricity companies, with benefits greater than their European counterparts, mark the Ministry of Industry's agenda on matters such as renewable energies or recently in the self-consumption decree, even when disregarding the reports of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. Thus, the Government adopts solutions other than those that are driven in the countries around us solely for the benefit of the five operators ahead. The transparency of the sector is minimal and the interests present in each problem are rarely explained. The conflict of interest also occurs at the level of staff members with the capacity to propose or to intervene by means of reports in the adjudication process. Nothing is spoken of in the project of this problem. Again the Vigo hospital has just offered a worrisome demonstration, where the follow-up of the contract was attributed to a person from the health administration and, therefore, with a deep knowledge of the mechanisms and actual limits of the control capacity of public services over administrative concessions. A recent report explains that 55% of state lawyers, that is, those who have the responsibility to defend public interest in the courts, have partial dedication, and 40% are in excess. It is not understandable that those who represent the general interest are captured by the private interest in conflict precisely with the State. It has happened, for example, in the Prestige accident, that we commemorate this week; however, the bill we are debating today does not go into this subject at all. Moreover, a bill has just been tabled in Parliament to regulate legal advice and grant a privileged status to the body of lawyers of the Union without the slightest reference to this problem we are discussing. It's logical that professionals corporately try to avoid excessive limitations to their professional career, but it's incomprehensible that Joine tolerates it and elevates it to the rank of law. We defend that transparency is extended to resolutions of compatibility authorisations which affect both public employees who have these optional reporting powers and senior positions after their termination. If you want to control an opaque practice that is being used as a favor payment, unconditional transvasion must be made difficult, which we colloquially call "rotate doors", setting limits both on exit and return. The project we are discussing also excludes from its application entities that this parliamentary group considers should be under its tutelage, for example, local administrations, commercial societies with public sector support above a certain threshold and even private entities receiving aid above a figure and in which such aid represents an important fraction of their income. We also detect problems in the treatment of public procurement. If we assume that the procurement has a multiplier effect on the economic fabric, we need to pay more attention to it and overcome the malfunctions that employers themselves report; for example, we propose to publish all the data on the assignment of contracts and subcontracts, a formula through which the Administration is allowing the public sector to deteriorate in competition, and we defend that the public procurement policy of the Administration is regularly evaluated as part of transparency. In addition, and by collecting the opinion of many experts also from Greece, we propose that all public investment projects greater than 5 million euros be subject to a prior cost-benefit analysis, which will improve their efficiency, and of course those assessments are public, whether they are direct execution projects or concessional projects or public-private collaboration projects. Again it's about preventing what happened to the new Vigo hospital or to the City of Culture. In the area of urbanism, we also propose extending public information to the resolutions and reports of the Higher Committee on Urbanism of the Urban Legality Protection Agency, because it is in urbanism where most of the cases of corruption have occurred. And we will propose that the concept of "legislative paste" be incorporated into all bills to know the reports and advice or opinions of entities other than the promoter body and that the interests concerned or involved may be valued by the public opinion. Finally, I wanted to defend the principle of quality regulation, the better regulation, which is absent in the legislative production of the Union, despite being driven and approved by the European Union, and this standard should be used to incorporate it. Because the glaring legislative production we are debating here in Parliament in recent years has a high degree of improvisation, as is shown by the continuous change in the standards adopted in recent times. This represents a level of legal insecurity and excessive regulation contrary precisely to the principles that drive the European Union, and also principles that are necessary because they directly result in the cost of companies' participation in the administration's procedures and even in essential procedures for economic life, such as the creation of companies, where, despite all the repeated promises, we continue to have some of the worst data in Community Europe in terms of time and cost. That legal insecurity is a topic when we talk about the Spanish administration and, of course, the Administration of the Union. For all these reasons, this group is not going to impede the consideration of the bill. We hope that the conciliatory will which the Counsellor has expressed today will not be hampered in the process by the opposing position of the majority group of reflections and amendments which I have just moved forward and which we believe would greatly improve the proposed text. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u21	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice-President. We have today held the first debate on the draft law on transparency and good governance adopted by the Council on 24 September; a bill that deepens on the democratic impulse that President Feijó committed in his appearance, as already mentioned in this gallery at the beginning of this year, and deepens not only on the content of the norm, but also on the procedure of his elaboration, since he was subjected to the consideration of citizenship, and also collects contributions that have been made from it to the normative document. And, like the vice-president, I, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, today also appeal to the spirit of consensus of the year 2006, when socialists and nationalists ruled and unanimously approved the Transparency Act in Galicia. We are faced with a matter that affects us all, a matter in which we all have to acquire a commitment to send a message to the clear and powerful citizenship that transparency is a matter for all and that ethical misconduct is individual and not more of a political formation. Because at the end of these conducts, used as a political drag weapon in generalized terms, harm everyone and harm the noble political activity to which we dedicate ourselves many people who have a true vocation for public service. There are no more ethical parties than others, but there are people who individually decide to take advantage of a public office for their own benefit, like the service provided by employees and public employees, which cannot be questioned by the bad practice of individual conduct, and at that, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree. And with the processing of this law, among all of us, we have to be able to cut down on these actions, avoid the temptations of corrupt conduct with more transparency in the management of public resources, by increasing the channels of access to information and updating the system of incompatibility of high office, to avoid what is known as "rotating doors", as well as by heeding government performance in functions. It is a pity that we have to give this amendment debate to the whole today, because I understand that you have issues that can be incorporated and that improve the text of the project but I could not understand the real reason for the amendments to the whole that were presented by three groups of the House. But once I read them, because I have to say that they were only an excuse to put other issues on the table, and today in the debate we are checking it out. Because your theatre is pure, a member of the AGE said so, that this is a theater, but we, as we consider that the House, that this Parliament, is neither a gas chamber nor a theater, are going to be serious about this. And I'm going to talk about amendments to the whole group. The Galician Nationalist Block is based on its amendment to all three questions: in which this law addresses transparency from an outdated and ankylosed model, which does not pose the right to information as a fundamental right and which has a limited focus because it leaves out of its important scope institutions. Well, I have to remember that the BNG in the law they passed in 2006 demanded a legitimate interest for people who wanted access to information. Today, with this rule, with this new law, Galician, every citizen, for the sake of it, has the right to request public information. Do you object to that, that it is a universal right, that you have to justify access to information? We don't think so. And he says his amendment that this project is out of hand. Look, what you're out of step is your amendment, Mrs. Paz, because you know it's an exact copy of the amendment to the whole that you presented in the State Transparency Act; it's an exact copy, and you've found that law has been processed and that after that processing you've changed a lot of things that you've introduced in that amendment to the whole. And today they make the mistake of bringing an amendment to the whole of matters and appeal to matters that are already settled in that law and other subsequent laws. To me the truth is that you have disappointed me a lot, Mrs. Peace, because I have the Nationalist Block in Wales for a serious and rigorous group, and the truth is that this amendment that you present today proves that they haven't even read the law. But if we had any doubts after listening to you here, we realized that they actually had to have the law but did not do the duties. Look, I'm saying she's out of line because they're asking us, first, to consider the right to information as a fundamental right. As you know, this is state competition, because only the state can make it through organic law. You're talking about the Gürtel case and the case of Martial Dorado, who has failed to be transparent in Parliament. Look, on these matters, the Greek Government has dealt with more than forty parliamentary initiatives, two accumulated appearances of the president, another of the technical secretary general of the Health Council, four interpellations, seven oral questions in full to the president, three oral questions in the commission of CRTVG, two written questions, 21 requests for data, it has facilitated a list of more than 2,500 contracts with 18 companies that you think could illegally finance the People's Party. And on a photograph – because all of this comes from a photograph – he sent them from Galicia's board more than a thousand records on contracts and grants. And, like in the light of the data, they found nothing because there was nothing, because they're still wrong saying it's not enough. Well, you keep saying, if you insist that if you send them more papers, they'll send them and they'll check, just like those 2,500 contracts and those more than a thousand sheets, that there was nothing and that there'll be nothing left. They say they're out of private entities that manage public funds. False, read the law, article 4. They say they don't regulate incompatibilities. Look, on the rotational doors – and I'm telling everyone who talked about the rotational doors – the legislation we're debating today is the one that never got to control the incompatibilities of the high offices in Galicia's history, look where they look at it. Prior control of the shares of companies, of which they will have to report so that all citizenship knows what their past interests are. Constant control, extending the conflict of interest beyond the definition of the applicable law of 96, and forcing these people to abstain in any matter in which there is a minimum doubt, even in matters affecting companies, not in which their spouse is working, that of course, but in which he had worked in the previous two years. Later control, because for the first time we will regulate by law the obligation to communicate to where you are going to leave office, to detect incompatibilities before they are consumed and to be able to predict them. Citizens can observe the comparison of the estate before, when entering and after the exercise of a public office. We believe that's what citizenship demands. Look, you're not in favour of progressive progress in transparency. You say there are some laws and there's no need for another. Well, look, we thought as much as his spokesman when he defended the law of 2006, Professor González Marinas – whom I have a great esteem because he was my teacher and I know his good work and, therefore, I greatly value his words – who said in this House in the debate of the entire transparency law of 2006: "In the BNG we know that this cannot be accomplished suddenly, we know that it is certainly a process that probably never ends, because it is sequential, and the outcome that is going to be achieved will certainly always be improved." Well, it seems now that they consider that law not to be better and that it is not worth updating and expanding. It seems that his attitude does not respond to that constructive attitude of Professor Marines, but to a destructive attitude that he also predicted to be wrong, because he said: there is another group that has never brought or will bring to this House a project like what we are discussing at this time and that he has no other strategy to try to destabilize it or even boycott it because it doesn't interest him. BNG then failed, because PP didn't boycott that bill, voted in favor of it, and failed that it would never bring to this House a project like that, because today we're debating a project that improves that one and improves a lot of subsequent transparency laws. Therefore, the BNG now boycotts it, because it not only presents an alternative text, but also opposes it, even without any reason to oppose the whole text. And you talked here about transparency and many things, we would also like to know what dark pacts are behind the Lugo Deputy. Maybe those institutions that you're so far away and that you say they have to disappear... and then, with those pacts that the citizenry doesn't know, you enter these institutions. [[Murmurs.]] Perhaps it would be good if they put transparency in those dark pacts. As for the AGE, the amendment to the whole is at least surreal, because look, Mrs. Díaz, when we presented the Public Service Quality Law, they complained that it was not a good law of transparency, now that we have a law of transparency, they complain that it is not a good law of quality of public services. When the Aquaculture Act comes, it'll say it's not a good mine law, and, well, it'll be true, but if they were so interested in citizen participation, which is also critical, we had here a few months ago the citizen participation law debate, and not only did they bring interesting things, because they put amendments to transparency issues, but they voted against them. And they also voted against the Law of the Board of Auditors. The Law of the Board of Auditors, which introduces very important issues in the area of corruption prevention -- by the way, issues that brought to this House in its memory the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia, as a recommendation to prevent corruption -- and all of you, all of the vocabularies, applauded the prosecutor when he came here saying that those measures were good to incorporate them. The People's Party violates the bill of the Board of Auditors, and you vote against it. And you know what the prosecutor says in memory of this year? Did you have a chance to read it? For, look, in the last section of chapter III, which says "specific subjects of compulsory treatment", congratulates the People's Parliamentary Group because it was the only one who voted in favour – the Socialist Party abstained – and for taking these issues into account; issues how to reduce the risks of corruption in a preventive way, the level of financing of political parties, the urban area, competitions and public adjudications, like the incompatibilities, what you were talking about, or the conflict of interests or unjust enrichment of political positions. Who do you want to fool? They applauded the prosecutor and voted against a law that set black on white all the issues that the prosecutor considered important to prevent corruption. So they don't fool anyone. And you, Your Honor, now proposes the Ada Colau model, that lady who says you must violate the law. That's the model of Alternative Left Galaga, breaking the law, the Ada Colau model. Because if you believe the saviors of the homeland and the depositary Messiahs of the popular will, you should not have obstacles to the achievement of your goals; that of "stealing power" and those things Yes, of course, classical quotations... I recommend you too, when in your amendment of Eugene Genovese, you don't stay at a stage. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I think he stayed at a stage, he could also talk about Eugene Genovese when he criticizes communism. But that stage of evolution doesn't interest you; that stage I know you don't care, but talk about it, talk about it, not just talk about what you're interested in. But they don't have an alternative text either. Look, during the processing of the Quality and Service Law, Mrs. Díaz mistakenly understood that it had to be the Transparency Law, and presented partial amendments. With regard to contracts, he asked to publish the object, the amount, the procedure used, the adjudicator and the amendments. This project includes all of this and, in addition, the nailings, the composition of tables, the dates of public tender opening data, the valuation of bids and the formalization of the contract. He doesn't like it. With regard to smaller contracts, he asked for the publication of those which exceeded EUR 6,000; this law proposes that all be published. He doesn't like it. As far as agreements were concerned, I was asking for what was already in the basic legislation at that time: parts, object, deadline, financing and amendments. This project includes all, Mrs. Díaz. He doesn't like it. With regard to urban information, information on high office, including what you proposed in the amendments to the Public Service Quality Law, and they did not ask for any information on management orders, but this law corrupts them. What don't you like, Mrs. Díaz? Tell us what you don't like, because this goes beyond what you proposed in the Public Service Quality Law when you confused it with the Transparency Law. And the Joint Group, well, it makes a revolutionary whole of a lot of things that nothing has to do with this law, but of which, when they've been debated in this House, you've voted against. Look, citizen participation, we passed a law here and you voted against it. You are critical that this bill does not introduce evaluable quality indicators into the service. Less than a year ago we processed a draft service quality law precisely, and you voted against it. He says no regulation of strategic government planning is collected. The law of measures this year, to which you have made a whole amendment, includes. You're asking for the waiting lists schedule, which you already have, public employment data... look, recruitment lists, service commissions, collective agreements and the timing rate are all public, they're on the website. The collective agreements in the Official Journal of Galicia. What else do you want, Mrs. Díaz? No, of course, you are the proposal that will greatly reduce the transparency that this rule proposes, because you ask that the request be motivated. No, this law says that anyone, without need of motivation, can access the information, and you say that you contemplate the possibility that the information published is used for commercial purposes. Of course it won't. Anyway, I'm going to make a reference to the Socialist Party. I very much appreciate the tone of Mr. Méndez Romeo, and as in his day the law of transparency which you have approved was improved, I think this law greatly improves those questions. We also consider that, indeed, this law can be the object of improvement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u24	...Yes, finished, Mr. President, and we thank the contributions that can be made in that sense. We insist on what the Vice-President said, and the People's Parliamentary Group calls for this consensus in 2006. We hope that the context that prevented them from voting on other occasions on the Transparency Act, as the State did, will not prevent them from reaching agreements. This group, of course, will do its utmost to ensure that this law is passed by this Parliament with the greatest possible number of votes, with the consensus of all groups, because transparency is a matter for all, not just some. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica round of the amending groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u26	Thank you, President. After listening to the interventions of all groups, I reaffirm myself in my amendment to return, because I think we have to correct the poverty of this rule. I think the People's Party can do better, and I give them the opportunity to really make a law of transparency and not an election propaganda law. If you really want, you will have the opportunity to present a law that really is and has enough seriousness so that we can take it into consideration and really talk about transparency and the duties that the Government has in relation to that transparency. You were talking about if Feijó's photographs with Martial Dorado were photographs, but the photographs are taken somewhere. It's just that when someone takes a photograph of him doing some illegal or questionable action, that doesn't mean that that situation didn't happen; the photograph simply reflects what was given. But also, and even accepting that corruption is an individual matter, which is a question of people, it is clear that no party supports its corrupt as the People's Party. No party was able to fight for both the defense of its corrupts and the People's Party, from "Luis, be strong", to what is currently happening in Ourense. That's the reflection of the People's Party. That's why this law of transparency escapes from giving real explanations and from putting on that portal of transparency all the actions of this Government. And this law is approved for the next government, which indicates that you have a lot, a lot, a lot to cover; much more than cover! That law does not seek the obligation to set up committees of inquiry which are requested by the opposition or which call for citizenship. And there we have Angrois, without being able to investigate it, there we have the savings boxes of Welsh without investigating and there we have many other questions without investigating about corruption, because the People's Party does not investigate the corrupt ones. All the questions... you say that the amendments to the whole – said the spokesperson of the People's Party – hide or try to hide other issues, or put other questions on the table, because all the issues have to be in this transparency; all of them. And it's not true that all the contract information was given here. You're lying! It's not worth anything to me that the Galego Labour Relations Council has hung up all of Galicia's conventions. What I'm saying is that the Union has to say what agreements if they apply to the workers of each concessionary or concerted company, and that it is explained, for example, that Seaga workers have no agreement and that they refuse the Staff Regulations, which is a real democratic scandal. Those are the things you want to hide, and that's why they mean they're already somewhere else. In addition, I will tell you that I voted not to the law of citizen participation, and I would vote again that no, because it is another law that is born short, that is born to give propaganda and publicity to the People's Party and not to promote citizen participation, which, in the end, has to participate through the way it does now, through parliamentary groups. Nothing has been changed; it is the same as it is now. The commercial purpose of the public information collects the bill, don't tell me not because it collects it. There is no data either of those who speak, nor of those who give them transparency, such as the evolution of public employment. How many part-time contracts are being made? How many full-day contracts? How much personal are you replacing? What conditions are you working on? What are the ratios that are being used, both in health care and in education? Too much information not provided. The Board of Auditors is also warning us of the abuse of health concerts and the abuse of the public-private formula. We don't know how precarious work is created by the People's Party, with the subcontracting of recruitment, which is being done from the Public Administration. Time's up. I reaffirm myself in every and every one of the issues I put in my refund amendment. I will support the changes to return both from BNG and AGE, and I regret that again we have a law that will last a little longer than a year, because it must be changed by a truly democratic government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I believe that, after listening to his intervention, there are a hundred philosophers at least remixing in their graves, and after hearing him say that ethics is a private matter and not a public matter. That you collectively don't have it, doesn't mean that it doesn't exist; there's ethics in public behavior and political behavior, another thing is that you, to try to justify that you too had very high feminism some time ago about other people, you don't have enough feminist sensibilities now so your party will have to resign a gentleman who uses his public office to get sexual favors from a woman, to sexual harassment. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And look, Mrs. Prado, at the BNG transparency lesson of the People's Party, none, none. We just published last week a report from an organization that measures the democratic and transparent functioning of political organizations and, man, for once we won the state level; the Galician Nationalist Block is the first, and I think you have to go both ways, if you've reached both. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, the BNG pacts, for now, with other political forces and other institutions are public, they don't go into gas stations or hotel rooms, they're public and they're traded in public institutions. Don't worry, I'll read the text, since you notice that there are deficiencies in my intelligence – I didn't understand it properly, so I'll have to review it until I interiorize it and understand it properly. But I continue to reaffirm myself in what I said in my previous speech and, indeed, our refund amendment has whole paragraphs that are practically the same as the ones we presented at the Congress of Deputies, because the law is practically the same as you approved in Madrid. And indeed, after a very long process, however, in substantial matters there has been no change, and the substantial issues that we have proposed since the BNG have proposed this amendment for the return of this law have to do with three fundamental questions that I have already talked about here and which I shall reiterate. First of all, despite the fact that all the guidelines of international law on transparency that have been adopted in recent times, and the evolution of the norms of other states in our environment, remain without recognition of the right to information as a fundamental right of citizens and citizens. First reason we asked for his return. The second reason we asked for your return? Because, in fact, I did not find that in the scope of this law on transparency and the right to information of persons, as I have already said before, all public or private foundations that receive or operate with public money; all commercial societies in whose social capital directly or indirectly participate the entities provided for in Article 3 of this bill. And so it could continue to list at least five or six areas which we believe should be covered, such as financial entities or religious entities which are financed primarily from public money; because – as I said in the first intervention – since most of the public resources end up being run by private entities of all kinds and all levels, we believe that all these entities should be within the scope of this law because if we are not, indeed, depriving the citizen of much of the use of public resources today, of being able to control the use of public resources. And we finally said – and I still keep it – that, from our point of view, there is one more that lacks regulation to avoid turning doors. And let me read to you, in Article 42: "they shall be excluded from the previous point..."—which refers to those two years in order to be able to perform activities—...those persons who re-enter private entities where they had already exercised prior to the position of high office." A gentleman who worked for Mr. Florentino, who later served as Health Counselor or High Director of Sergas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u30	...you could go back to work for Florentine immediately after you quit and that you'd be given the adjudication of Vigo's hospital for over 1 billion euros. It seems to you that this limits the rotational doors and eliminates them, we think it doesn't. Maybe our ethical threshold is higher than yours. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u32	In fact, I feel like not addressing Mrs. Prado directly. But look, Mrs. Prado, the world is on the contrary: it is not that we, Parliament, and you are going to teach citizenship a lesson; no, as I told you at first, is that citizenship has taught the People's Party a lesson. And I spoke of 15M, Mrs. Prado, on the other hand, you arrive here exhausted from corruption, plots, puniques, Gürtel, from looting public resources; and now you overcome the obligation because there is no other remedy – as I told you – to play in appearance. [[Murmurs.]] It's not like you said, is that citizenship gave them a lesson, took us out of municipal governments in large part, and, of course, on December 20, they know well that they're going to run out of Moncloa just because it's about this, Mrs. Paula Prado, it's about this. But, look, you were talking about some rather interesting issues, you didn't talk about what I told you, of course, particularly, before the precept of this rule. You can't talk because you know I'm not lying, and you know that the trap is in the exceptions that you incorporate; and in the legal accommodation that they make, for example, that they're just going to give information about administrative concessions. But, of course, it is very nice, Mrs Prado, you spoke – you said the decency of recognizing it – in these amendments that presented AGE –74 – to the Law of Administrative Quality, all rejected except one transaction, all refused because what the People's Party told us is that we were going to debate them in this text. But do you know what a problem I have, Mrs. Prado? The problem I have is that I will not be able to add these amendments substantially because the text that you incorporate does not speak of what we talk about here. You carry the good government, Mrs. Prado, in the title of the norm; when we speak of good government, you speak of what I have told you, of glass walls, of public agendas. And the only rebels here aren't Mrs. Ada Colau who defends people, it's the People's Party; the rebels are you when they don't comply... yes, yes, when they don't comply with the sentences they're bound to. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, Mr. Trenor, who gets very nervous. The rebels – as I often tell them – are you, fulfill the law for what they want; and, of course, for the economic interests of the People's Party nothing at all. That's you, Mrs. Paula Prado. And look, of course, and we try it, but you'll see how what we incorporate here in good government disappears from the planet, or from jokes, because not even in the mother text are collected the central elements. I say in the mother text for talking about good government because I don't know what they're talking about, frankly, what they're talking about when they're talking about good government, what, what are they talking about? I insist, I don't know. Second question, of course, the theater that concerns you so much, Mrs. Prado, look, I don't know if you like the theater – I do – to myself, yes, I like the theater, it's a necessary thing to live on. [[Murmurs.]] There is a rather interesting man, who is Juan Diego Botto, who registrates a theatre room in Madrid, the Mirador Room, and he says in that room something so beautiful – I think – as I will read to him: "when Parliament is a theatre the theatre must become a Parliament." And he does theater works that reflect on what you've just done here today, I invite him to go a little to Madrid too – which is very good even if we're Welsh – and go to the Mirador Hall and see that beautiful frontispic who picks up these words. [[Murmurs.]] That, by the way, it's words... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, if you want to talk, I'll give you the turn... If you want me to give you the shift, but please act as president. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u33	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u34	Okay, go ahead and let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u35	Quiet, please. All of us. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence to all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u36	Of course, if you want, Mrs. Prado, I am democratic, I listen to you, I give you my time, but let me at least talk; if you're going to talk, then, look, come here, put yourself in and say what you want, Mrs. Prado, whatever you want. Look, I was talking to you about theater.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u38	...go there and listen to what you're talking about so you can see the theater where you're turning this into. And look, Mrs. Prado, what you haven't talked about is why silence is negative in this norm, you don't want to talk about it. What he doesn't talk about is why we're going to rule out information on matters of honorability. What he does not tell us – and that he did – is that we cannot really guarantee the right to information as a fundamental right because it is regulated by organic law, and capital sin committed it by the central PP. Indeed, Mrs Prado, and what we are not talking about is why the OSCE talks about this standard – which is practically the same as the one made by the People's Party in Madrid – is simply cosmetic changes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u40	Because I suppose these organisms – I insist, that they are not revolutionary – when they say this is that the thing must be locked. So, thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Go to the Look Room that will learn a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u42	And, of course, I'm going to be very attentive to the amendments because I can see that you're inventing yourself now to reject them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll wait until the advisor arrives. I suppose he'll be there. Because of courtesy, I guess he'll be there, I don't think it's the thing... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Let's wait a minute. Full discussion of the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u44	Amendments to this bill were tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Left Gallaga Alternative Group and the Galician Socialist Group. For the presentation of the bill, the councillor of Fairy has the word for word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I intervene in this plenary to present the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures for 2016, a rule that complements the Bill of Budgets for the next exercise also currently in parliamentary processing. We seek to contribute to greater efficiency and efficiency in a set of measures related to different areas of activity with a vocation of permanence over time. It contributes to the achievement of certain multi-year guidance objectives pursued by the Community through budgetary execution. The doctrine of the Constitutional Court sets out that different measures, executives and regulations, and that by their nature they must adopt a rank of law, should not be incorporated into the annual laws of budgets but into specific laws as we present today. I would also like to remind you that the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called accompaniment laws was resolved by the Supreme Court because the high court has set this type of rules as ordinary law whose contents are fully protected by the freedom of regulatory configuration enjoyed by the legislator. And that allows for better and more effective execution of the Government program in the different areas where its action is being developed. This bill includes measures to improve administration management and to increase its efficiency, to strengthen its simplification, to promote its rationalization and to bring legal security and protection to citizens. Thus this rule consists of two titles, one first, with measures of a tax nature, and one second, which incorporates others of an administrative nature. Within the tax section we include a package of actions to carry out the biggest tax reduction in the history of autonomy with the aim of increasing citizens' available income and encouraging consumption to make additional € 140 million available to the Greeks and the Greeks. As for the IRPF, we set a new scale applicable to the autonomic frame to improve its progress when passing from 5 to 7 sections. We have reduced and redistributed the tax burden by increasing the income available to families, promoting savings and investment and improving the competitiveness of our companies. So we've achieved a more equitable tax system by assuming a higher discount for middle and low incomes. With this downgrade we have completed this government two years ago, in force since the first of January 2014 when we advance the reform approved by the State and which has since benefited the liquidable bases of up to EUR 17,707, that is, 70% of the Greek taxpayers. This new discount is much more ambitious, as it will save up to 380 euros a year for low and medium incomes, which places Galicia as one of the lowest tax communities for these rents, and because it also benefits up to 98.5% of the Greek taxpayers. As far as succession and prayer tax is concerned, we have increased the reduction to the second group in general from the current EUR 18,000 to 400,000. With this measure, we intend to eliminate 99% of the cases of parental inheritance taxation, while maintaining an increased reduction for children aged 21 to 24 years between 900,000 and 600,000 euros. The goal is to keep the family heritage and the family's economic capacity to lose on many occasions the income that approached the deceased person. If the estate of the deceased is greater, we understand that the economic capacity of the family is sufficient to cope with the payment of the tax without it being significantly reduced; so we opt for the increase in personal reductions and not for the complete abolition of taxation, since Galicia already has a low type of recording for transmissions from parents to children of up to 18% against the most distant relatives. In addition, and given the existence of successor pacts in our Law 2/2006, of Galician civil law, as are the improvement and departure, it will allow to a greater degree than the present that those who want to deliver goods in life to their descendants, as an early form of inheritance to be perceived, if they benefit from this reduction. We also clarify in the Law of measures that the habitual housing reduction of the cause of inheritance tax will apply even if the person does not reside in it when, under physical or psychic circumstances, he or she moves to receive care to a specialized center or to live with his or her relatives. We thus comply with the text of a non-law proposal submitted by the People's Party and adopted unanimously by the rest of the groups last March; in this way we link the loss of living conditions habitually to the voluntary abandonment of it and not to the need to do so for medical reasons or to achieve their assistance and care. Galicia, as a whole, has one of the lowest taxes in all of Spain by the tax of successions and prayers; zero tax, as per direct heir to 400,000 euros. But we also consider measures within the property transmission tax and legal acts documented for the rural environment; in particular, we want tax not to be an obstacle to mobilising land with agrarian vocation when there is a demand for land by already-constituted agricultural holdings or for new initiatives. In addition, we have been complementing other existing ones since 2009 in support of the rural environment. A 100% reduction is set in the quota of rustic soil transmissions, which means that the recording is missing, so the tax is no longer a trap for carrying out these types of operations. We raise to 100% the reductions provided for in Law 19/1995, of modernisation of agricultural holdings, which means the tax benefit that will be complete for operations that seek to promote the transmission of agricultural holdings and the increase in their size. These percentages currently ranged from 50% to 90%, and we also set a 100% deduction on the record rate of documented legal acts that fall on the rustic prediary groupings, so we completed the zero-tax strategy in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, with the tax measures collected in this bill, we place the Greeks, along with the Madridians, as the taxpayers who will pay less taxes from all over Spain, and put at their disposal – as I said previously – 140 million euros. As far as taxation is concerned, in the area of administrative fees, we have amended Law 6/2003 for the creation of new rates or the modification of some of the vigors. Its economic impact highlights the rate for social services programmes and centres which sets three tranches, on the one hand, due to the different cost of accreditation check rates in the event of authorisation, responsible declaration and prior communication; and, on the other hand, the creation of a new rate necessary for the articulation of the verification to be carried out within the procedure of responsible declaration of commencement of the activity, supplementary service and substantial modification. With regard to water canon, it is clear what criteria should be used in the application of the water exemption by a social initiative entity, carried out in centres providing direct services to persons at risk or in situations of social exclusion. As far as administrative measures are concerned in this bill, they seek four questions: to improve administrative management, to increase efficiency, to deepen simplification and to provide legal security. With regard to management improvements in the field of social services, we have established the competences of the Union in the development of the protocols for the return of information between the different levels of action of the Greek social services system, establishing an express mention of the single electronic social history. We also seek to provide adequate coverage for the specialized care of children under 16 in residential centres for people with disabilities. In the wake of the housing we facilitate forced expropriation for social interest to the municipalities of those private or common elements necessary to perform works or facilities necessary to comply with the rules on accessibility and removal of architectural barriers. We guarantee that all the properties of credit institutions and their real estate subsidiaries and asset management entities will be included in the empty housing census of the autonomous community. Including banking restructuring procedures existing in buildings of collective residential type or in real estate complexes located in municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants. In the chapter on water, we declare of interest to the autonomous community the works included in the Greek Supply Plan and the Greek Sanitation Plan, as well as in the Hydrological Plan for the Galicia-Costa hydrographic demarcation. As regards the confrerery of fishermen, we have added a new precept concerning administrative intervention in government bodies, since the decree which develops the law of confrereries provides for this intervention but this provision is not collected in the law. In the field of research, we improve the model of innovation policy governance by integrating management into the follow-up of the Strategy of Intelligence Specialization RIS3, within the bodies provided for in Galicia's Promotion, Research and Innovation Act. In the context of economic and financial planning and management, we introduce the principles of economic and financial management, economic planning that will be ordered in strategic plans, sectoral and transversal plans and, finally, budgetary allocations to expenditure managers and the management of public expenditure, with the aim of focusing on the achievement of expected results. We intend to encourage compliance with the objectives of the management bodies of the Board, as a criterion more than one that is taken into account in the allocation of resources within the targets already set in the budget. In application of all these principles, the medium-term economic performance of the autonomous public sector will be ordered in the strategic plan of government, an instrument which sets priorities and gives coherence to the set of activities which the Union will carry out in the medium term. We will shortly present to this Parliament the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, a living document in which, apart from bringing it to this budget to be improved in its case, we will implement budgeting the priorities of Galicia for this second half of the decade. In the area of the grant law, we coordinate grants on energy saving and efficiency, renewable energies established or managed by the entities referred to in the Law to avoid duplication in the concession and aid, in addition to technical advice to the management bodies in relation to the criteria of adjudication. We have also changed certain requirements in the official chambers and in the internal trade chambers to deepen the principle of administrative simplification, and we have eliminated the obligation to register in the Galego Trade Register as indispensable to opt for aid called by the Autonomic Administration or to participate actively in the specific programmes. Within the area of local administration, in order to promote advisory functions or for the voluntary incorporation of others, we have created a special fund with economic aid and technical criteria, as well as priority or special criteria in the allocation of finalist grants and in the organisation plans for autonomous services and the forgiveness of debts or increase of percentages in the local cooperation fund. We also in mobility simplify the procedures with regard to the Galician Transport of Tourism Vehicles Act to achieve greater rationalization of the administrative procedure. As far as energy is concerned, we protect consumers by setting by law the obligation to review invoices made since the installation of new smart counters and the return of amounts unduly charged, as well as the specific provision of an offender type to facilitate their sanction. We therefore have to bill on the basis of real consumption. In the field of public media, we guarantee, by responsibility, that the public radio and television service in Galicia will maintain an address until it is initiated by the Galician Radio and Television Corporation for its activity in the provision of public service. In the field of sport we also set accident insurance to provide the highest guarantees for the participants in sports events. In the field of tourism, we include the obligation of the Register of Active Tourism Companies to ensure the safety of activities benefiting businesses. We allow the establishment of more categories in tourist camps, we open ourselves to new specialties in the field of restoration with the inclusion of typical establishments in Galicia such as seafood or new types demanded as gastrobars. And we also added some supposed slight infringement in the specific case of tourist signage and on the Way of Santiago. In the field of agriculture, we have established the competent bodies to impose sanctions on infringements committed in the field of food quality. We have also modified the Law on Mountains with reports and land management tools and on urban planning, which must always contain reasoned technical assessments, with sectoral report from the Forest Administration. And, on the other hand, in the public employee's field, we recovered the days by antiquity through a union agreement; one more step in the recognition of the efforts of public employees during the crisis, as we are working in several areas both to improve the wage by anticipating the full return of the extra payment approved in 2012 and by law shielding the recovery, paid and retired, as well as for the recruitment of public professionals. All of them that have brought together a certain and progressive improvement in the working conditions of our workers – always within the budgetary availability to, as I say, advance in that recognition of the effort that the public employees have made during the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reminded that the measures included in this bill improve the day-to-day management of administration, promote simplification and rationalization, seek to improve efficiency and efficiency and bring security and protection to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u46	Thank you, Counselor. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u47	I am presenting an amendment to the whole of this bill for the return of this bill because I believe it's a true normative trick that modifies at least ten-nine laws of firing materials without any other connection than the desperate electoral emergencies of the People's Party. In particular, it amends the Act 19/1995 on the modernisation of agricultural holdings; the Law on rates, prices and regulatory exemptions of the Autonomous Community; the Law on the Public Employment of Galicia – recently approved – the Law on the Housing of Galicia, the Law on the Waters of Galicia, the Law on the Confirmation of Fishermen, the Law on Sport, the Law on Tourism, the Law on Social Services, the Law on the Grants of Galicia, the Law on Chambers of Commerce, the Law on the Interior Trade, the Law on the Promotion of Research and Innovation of Galicia, the Law on the Promotion and Defence of Food Quality, the Law on Mountains, the revised text of the Law on Budget Financial Regulating the Local Administration, the Law on Temporary Measures in Public Employment and the Law on Public Audiovisual Media – as a minimum. When it comes to a law of accompaniment processed in parallel with the budgets and by the procedure of urgency, it makes it impossible to sink into the subjects which cover with a serious decrease of transparency in the legislative work and stealing the participation of the bodies and institutions concerned by the subject matter of the law. That is to say, in the previous draft law of what we have just talked about, transparency does not come into these budgets, but neither does citizen participation, nor even Parliament itself. The change in the IRPF establishes unfair steps, which continue to benefit those who earn the most; they should be complemented by more tranches where lower incomes have a lower type and higher higher incomes, so that the principle of solidarity is respected and the continuity and quality of public services is guaranteed. The same injustice in the distribution of tax charges can be deducted from deductions by purchase of habitual housing, where a deduction of 95% is applied to households of more than 300,000 euros and, in addition, couples are excluded by law – refers only to spouses-. As it is more than demonstrated that the solution to access to housing goes through the promotion of housing in rent, no tax benefits are envisaged for people living under this scheme. In the amendment of Galician Water Act 9/2010, in relation to water canon, I believe that it should have been used to ensure access to the canon exemption to households with the lowest income and those at risk or in situations of social exclusion. It is estimated that in Galicia there are some 8,000 families that, because of one of the groups, some of these sectors, would be entitled to the canon exemption, but the reality is that only 638 Greek households – according to the Environmental Council itself – are currently benefiting from this canon exemption; more than 7,300 homes are paying an average of 50 euros a year more in the water receipt for not requesting the exemption to which they have the right, a situation which would not apply to the exemption of duty from the Administration. The interests of the Government are also clear in Article 32, in which it considers infringements to be minor the failure by the electricity companies to carry out reading on the basis of actual consumption, without considering the prejudice that causes consumer persons, which in many cases can lead to the cutting of supply. However, no measures are envisaged to ensure access to the energy of all families, and this is fundamental to people's health and basic well-being. The amendment to Law 4/20013 on public transport of persons in tourism vehicles in Galicia does not take into account inter-live transmissions for cases of survival disability or other social emergency situation. I think you should be careful about dependency and the rights of dependent people. In the amendment of Law 7/2012 of the hills of Galicia, forest land is deprotected and social organizations' reports are not taken into account in relation to the benefit or social value of the mountains. With regard to rustic soil, the change in State tax provisions establishes deductions to rustic soil transmissions and groups of lands, is ambiguous and does not establish when such deductions may or may not be applied, since the text says "deductions may be applied to 100%" but does not clarify with what criteria such deductions may or may not be applied. The amendment of Galicia's Financial and Budgetary Regime Act forgets transparency –we then return to the debate we have just had – should include the mechanisms to ensure citizen participation in the economic planning and generation of government acts collected in the Strategic Plan of Government, as well as the instruments for its follow-up. It also amends Law 5/1997 regulating the local administration of Galicia, establishing measures to promote the merger of municipalities, which does not specify how problems arising from the merger will be solved, leaving indefinitely such important issues as the development of a new PPT, which is not spoken of by any agreement with the union representation – it is understood that it will be arranged by the administration itself without the union representation – or the drafting of the PXOM. Furthermore, no coincidences are established, the possibility of assigning compulsory municipal services which should be provided by the council resulting from the merger to the deputy, rather than supporting the assumption by the council. You're still betting on withdrawing competences from the municipalities and that they are assumed by parliament; there's no point in merging municipalities to create a larger council with more management capacity so that essential basic services will then lend them to parliament. Of course, a real legislative trap that brings us here. The priority of the municipalities resulting from the merger in the allocation of finalist grants or the possibility of condemning the debts of the merged municipalities is not justified either. The amendment of Law 6/2001 to the adequacy of the legislation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia sets again criteria contrary to the interests of workers and public workers by considering negative administrative silence in respect of applications or claims involving economic effects – i.e. the defence of workers and public workers at discounts in their payrolls or disagreements with their economic perceptions –. In support of the debate on budgets, and in the midst of the electoral propaganda measures contained in this bill, the People's Party seeks to hide legal reforms such as what affects Galicia's Public Media and Audiovisual Communication Act 9/2001, which seeks to shield the sine die continuity of the current Director General of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. Obviously, this measure has an impact on the desperation of the People's Party to ensure control of Galician Radio and Television in the next legislation, as reflected both in the text and in the treatment given to the debate of the Framework Statute of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, of what we will also talk about in this plenary. Even at this high point in the session period, the legal changes in favour of the Welsh and the Greek parties introduced by the People's Party by the electoral emergencies can be addressed without delay, by means of the corresponding reform law, allowing them to deepen the debate on each of the matters. Within these electoralist matters, for example, is the second transitional provision, since the proposed changes are mandatory by law when it comes to rights inherent in motherhood and paternity. As for the right of time flexibility of staff to the administration service, in the event of nullity, separation or divorce, it constitutes a recognition of rights which, however, forgets to specify that this right will also apply to de facto couples. In addition, this bill maintains the cuts to public workers and workers set out in Law 1/2012, of temporary public employment measures, at a time when the Government itself craves economic recovery and lowers direct taxes. An opportunity is lost by not including in Article 23 the claim of competence in matters of protection of persons and goods and maintenance of public order, simply referring to what is not the competence of the Galician Union. Of course, an absolute disinterest to rule. I no longer say that, as in Catalonia, you ask for independence, but that at least you ask for competences to be able to govern is the minimum that a Government could do, which also makes a bill that does not have powers to act on something as important as the protection of people, the goods and the maintenance of public order. It also forgets the bill to establish improvements for the care of minors in detention centres whose deficiencies have been the subject of a report by the People's Valedor. Even so, he draws attention that no specific article is included in measures to support the fight against gender-based violence. According to data from the Council of Judiciary for the second quarter of the year, in Galicia there are 1,975 pending criminal matters related to violence against men, a situation caused by the enormous workload of the Greek judges in which violence against women is referred to; thus, resolutions may take months, and protection orders on occasion do not arrive in time – as we have sadly ascertained –. A burden of work in Vigo, for example, translates into the fact that every policeman assigned to the fight against macho violence is responsible for him around a hundred women; or in Lugo, where there is only one inspector and three officers. How can a policeman protect a hundred women? And that that does not consist at all in any of the measures of this law really say much of the value, of the importance, which the Government gives to the life of women and the fight against gender violence, but also gives much to say of the interest that the Government has in achieving the real equality of rights between men and women. The Coruña metropolitan area also has deficiencies like this, since it's the only one that counts with a specialized unit but there are only two people to carry it and attends eighteen municipalities. In short, this draft tax law provides for unfair taxation and forgets, at the time of such welcome economic recovery, measures aimed at guaranteeing the rights of and minors, as well as other measures aimed at the protection and protection of minors at risk or at loss; actions aimed at achieving effective equality of rights and duties between men and women, as well as concrete measures for the protection of women victims of gender-based violence and their children and their children to whom they are also considered victims of violence. There are no measures to alleviate energy poverty and to guarantee universal access to energy, the minimum energy needed to provide families and homes with decent living conditions. It lacks citizenship participation and transparency measures in public management; it continues to maintain cuts to the rights of workers and public workers, and continues to insist on a return tax that benefits the great fortunes and harms the most vulnerable people – fundamentally, because the change of the IRPF to whom it will really benefit is the great fortunes and people with higher wages, and yet all the indirect tax charges that they are paid by us all, regardless of the incomes of the family unit – are maintained. So I demand the return of this bill and that all these measures be taken into account that benefit the majority of society and do not try to hide information from the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, as you have done last year, your Government recovers an old and bad legislative practice, the bad practice of presenting, together with the budget law, a accompanying law to introduce changes to a large number of laws which should be the subject of a specific parliamentary procedure; and, in this way, they prevent a paused and reflective debate by listening, in addition, to the different sectors concerned. In addition, as they did last year, they again imitate the forms and contents of the Central Government; in the forms, by abusing – as I have just said – the use of exceptional procedures and urgent procedures; and in the content, by pressing measures adopted by the Central Government – as they do with the licences for the implementation of new commercial areas – instead of acting autonomously and using self-government to regulate according to the real and specific needs of this country. His government again gives evidence of the improvisation that characterizes him. Many of the administrative measures envisaged are changes in recent standards, many of them adopted just two years ago, causing this way of acting a great legal insecurity in citizens who are the final recipients of these rules. But besides, Counselor, the legal changes that are introduced are not at all harmless. For example, you intend to hang around through the last fourth layout a modification of Galicia's Public Audiovisual Media Act, to give a real coup d'état on the RTMG. Look, the current law states that the CEO of CRTVG will have to be appointed with a reinforced majority of two-thirds and that the board of directors and their general address continue in the exercise of their functions until the appointment of the governing bodies of the RTVG Corporation takes place. Something that's already happened, Counselor. And on the other hand now, with the change they enter, the Director General can continue in the exercise of his functions until the RTVG Corporation initiates its public radio and television service provision activity, and they add that if the Director General was not elected at that time, the exercise of his functions will be transiently consistent with the person who holds the company's general management. Finally, you are opening the way for the current Director-General to be able to extend indefinitely, in addition to the precept that he has to be elected by a stronger majority of this Parliament. Look, Counsellor, as you know, the BNG has been very critical of the renewal process of the CRTVG Board of Directors, a renovation that has been cooked between the two majority parliamentary groups among bambalins, from behind this Parliament, by practicing the old quota-sharing policy to be distributed to CRTVG and the statutory bodies. A renewal which was also made by leaping over all the steps that mark the law itself. Before Parliament had to approve the framework agreement and then join the programme contract, and now you intend to take one more step and commit a real blow to the CRTVG to perpetuate its partisan control, even beyond the present legislation. A whole example of how your Government understands the transparency and democratic impulse of what it so much boasts. Look, it is also not harmless the amendment they introduce to Article 29, the attention of children under 16 in residential equipment for persons with disabilities. With this change they pretend that minors do not have specific and specialized care in their own centres for minors. In measures such as these, Mr Counsellor, this is where the social commitment that Mr Feijóo has so alarmed in the recent debate on the state of our nation, to take a further step in the dismantling of specialized public services, in addition to punishing the most vulnerable groups. Also not innocuous are the changes you make in other articles. Many of them have already referred to the voicer of the Joint Group in the previous intervention, so I'm going to try to sum up. For example, Article 30 amends the escalations to electrical regulations, penalizing the productive activity of small and medium-sized enterprises to encourage large electricity companies. Before the threshold to cover the costs of installing electrical supply reinforcements in industrial soil was located from 100 kilowatts, now they propose to reduce it to 25. As a result, many companies will have to assume higher installation costs, affecting productive activity and employment generation. This in a country such as Galicia, which is an overriding factor in electricity production and where energy costs are, is not exactly the labour costs, which are threatening the viability of many companies. Look, Counsellor, it is clear what interests you have: they continue to serve clearly the interests of the great economic lobbyists, not the interests of the economic fabric of this country. And, if there were any doubts, Article 37 amends Galicia's Internal Trade Act on the procedure for obtaining an autonomous commercial authorisation to retain competence in the municipalities, integrating the urban licence of the large commercial areas into the commercial authorisation. All in order to continue to favour, under the pretext of agileization, the proliferation of large commercial surfaces, even though the consequence is the ruin of our small and medium-sized trade, as it is already happening, Counsellor. Besides, how curious that you introduce this change now, after a municipal election in which you have been expelled to the opposition in the vast majority of the major municipalities of our country! And if we talk about the municipalities, you're still feeding on total and absolutely artificial debates. Look, Counselor, Galicia has 30,000 nuclei of population, that is, half of the population nuclei existing in the entire territory of the Spanish State. And having 30,000 nuclei of population we have 314 municipalities, less than the province of Burgos. Castile and León, with less population than Galicia, has 2,248 municipalities; Catalonia, 948; the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, with the fourth part of the area of Galicia, has 251 municipalities, i.e. in proportional terms, has many more municipalities than Galicia. In Galicia we don't have an excessive number of municipalities, Counselor. And despite that reality, you introduce an article of promotion measures for the merger of municipalities or for voluntary incorporation into others. Look, they could introduce in the budgets aid for the implementation of joint or consortium services, a way of cooperation between the municipalities that are simpler and more effective than fusion. They could do the real rationalization of the local map, with the assumption by the Galician Board of Impropial Skills managed by provincial deputies. There are now three of Galicia's four provincial deputies who are willing to talk about the transition to Galician Union or directly to the municipalities of these inappropriate powers, but they do not, instead of addressing the real problems, prefer to do virtual politics. We are still being sold as the great solution to the problems of our local administration to the fusion of Oza-Cesures. That is the great star measure of your Government, rather than addressing the real problems. But, Counsellor, of course, I do not want to conclude without also referring to the tax measures contained in this bill, as much as we will have the opportunity to debate these measures much more deeply in the process of budgets. Look, taxes should not be made demagogy, taxes are necessary to provide resources to meet public policies and are also necessary as a mechanism for the redistribution of wealth and ultimately as mechanisms for correcting social inequalities. That's why the fundamental is a fair distribution of the tax burden, and because of these fair distribution criteria, taxes will have to be raised and other taxes will have to be lowered. But in the face of this approach, the tax measures of his government are regressive, and they also have a marked electoralist smell. Do you want to lower taxes? They lower indirect taxes, which have risen scandalously since you rule, eliminate all compensations that have been established in public services, assume the hydrocarbon tax that they approved in 2013 and accompany these discharges of higher tax pressure on those that really have the most. For example, by increasing the progress in tax on documented heritage transmissions and legal acts, raising the rates on higher assets, or by claiming the creation of a genuine tax on bank deposits, instead of accepting a reasoning regulation, a genuine coat of hair, which makes the collection by this tax estimated at 21.6 million euros, a lower amount than the revenue provided for by sanctions and charges from the Greek administration, a quantity that is only the third part of what they plan to enter by game taxes. They can also increase the progress of the tax system by creating a tax that exacerbates the establishment of large commercial areas rather than withdrawing competences from the municipalities to promote their proliferation. But no, you prefer to do demagogy and electoralism instead of addressing the real tax reforms this country needs. We see it in succession tax and donations, and this tax already had multiple exemptions, so in practice it will be the most beneficial high incomes of the new exemptions that are established. We see it also in the IRPF, Counsellor, because with the new structure of tranches it turns out that in tranches of middle income, which are not high, you considerably raise the tax pressure, I have already commented on it in your presence in Commission 3a to account for the draft budgets. In incomes from 20,000 to 33,000 euros, the average type was 14%, and now it is 15.5% up to 27,700 euros and 17% up to 33,000; i.e. they are applied up to 1.5 points and 3 points respectively on the target type. While for incomes of more than 60,000 euros, the rise is only one point, and they even lower it at one point in incomes of 53,400 to 60,000 euros. As I've already told you, curious way of understanding progressivity. But in addition, you see a fundamental aspect: the reduction in tax rates in the autonomic frame will only have effects as of 2017. You announce this discount now because next year there are autonomous elections, but it will have to be the new government that results from these elections which assumes the payout of the impact of this discount on the collection. Its measures, therefore, respond to calculated electoralism, trying to shift the illusion of economic recovery in the form of small bonuses with a very reduced impact on the real availability of people's income, rather than actually bet on their progress, redistribution, equity, ultimately on the fiscal reform that this country needs. For all these reasons, Counsellor, through this amendment to the whole, we call for the return of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u50	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u51	Good morning, Counselor. The truth, Mr. Counsellor, that would play a role in balancing today, especially once you return to this cacical practice of so-called accompaniment laws. It's very good that you explain to us what the Constitutional Court says, what's a pity it's not to express what the Constitutional Court says, the Supreme Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, the ESC and a multitude of bodies that point... I don't know if it's funny to them, but they say it's a bad legislative practice, and they also say that governments, in broad democratic terms, don't have to go to these kinds of rules. I don't know where grace is what we're saying. I insist that you both defend yourself in the legality of the process, that is, in form, and not get into the materiality of what you're doing, I think it's a fairly fundamental democratic ejacism. Perhaps – I insist – you should explain, the spokesperson of the People's Party, why you have to resort to this practice, especially when you have everything, Counselor. They have forty-one Members, they click there when they want, most absolutely, absolute architecture, they give us soups every day, they approve what they want. Everything is opaque and, for the most part, it turns out that I'm not even formally able to keep things or make them half-wrong. I insist: General Council of the Judiciary, Constitutional Court... I'm not going to bore it with what we say in the amendment by quoting different rulings, and I'm not even going to mention administrative law chairmen, who must know it for sure better than I do, because I insist on what is never to be done in a democratic practice conceived in a broad sense. You'll say after that this is democratic because we're going to vote. Of course, that's their conception of democracy, not ours. And I'd really like you to tell us, Counselor, if it's democratic that we're going to change an attack of twenty-three rules. I'm going to take part in readings, because, of course, I think that citizens and citizens have to have that information that you prevent. First, they will change the consolidated text of the legal provisions of taxes handed down by the State, adopted in Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 28 July; the Law on Rates, Prices and Regulatory Exams of the Autonomous Community of Galicia; the Water Law; the Public Employment Act of Galicia – recently approved by you –. They're bad till they make rules. That is what we have said, yes, Counsellor, let me take a look at our plenary speeches, just like we do. And I'm going to read to you the inaccurate opponent of the Vigo Council, Mrs. Muñoz, what Mrs. Muñoz was saying in the intervention you did this year, I'm going to read it because we're going to balance it: "And therefore, the AGE Public Employment Act said it was a bad rule and that it would have to be changed." And we also told him that it would be the way they're doing, that is, that we would quickly have new incorporations. Here it is, you made it, not us, and you're already changing it under the law of accompaniment. Well, Public Transport Act, also a rule of yours, in 2013, you ruled, the Alternative Left Gaga, not that we were something else. Well, the Galician Housing Act, the Fishermen's Conferres Act, the Sport, Tourism Act, Galician Social Services Act, the Consolidated Law on Legal Provisions of the Autonomous Community on Industrial Policy – a minor thing, is not only important, simple things – the Galician Grants Act, the Law on Official Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Navigation. In addition, many of them, Mr. Counsellor, have already been changed by accompaniment law in the past budgetary exercise. Also Galicia's Internal Trade Act, it's also a minor thing, nothing happens, with this big surfaces going all nickel-plated and perfect, it's all great. The Law on the Promotion of Research and Innovation in Galicia, I will read part of what these precepts say. It's very interesting, Mr. Counsellor, what you're doing with the R & D+i, keeping, that's yes, that heavy investor effort in R & D+i, which is still 0.96%. I want to be Portuguese, Mr. Counsellor; I want to be for the investment indexes they have in the neighbouring country. Of course, I'm not saying anything else. I'm not talking about the state averages anymore. I'm not even talking about the rest of the European countries. I'm talking about what we have: 0.86 % of budget allocation, exactly the same. And then a gift that makes you see the accompanying law to the R & D+i. Well, things that aren't of any importance either: the promotion and defense of the Greek food quality, the lesser thing that doesn't have any importance either; the Galician Mountain Law, nothing happens, if it's great, and with the latest legislative reform made in the People's Party in Madrid most excellent everything; and, yes, the end of the calcined mountains, great to do business! All things are of no importance in this country. Also the text of Galicia's financial and budgetary regime, the Law of the Local Administration – from which Mr Jorquera spoke – and indeed the procedure for the autonomous commercial authorization. We follow: Law 30/1992 and its amendments. We also – following – Law 1/2012, of February 29, Counsellor. How nice to talk about these things with the good that recovery goes in the country? In your opinion, we are living in Finland; this is a wonder. And it turns out you're changing the part that interests you from that norm and there's a messy part, which I'm going to read literally, too, about the silence that changes you negative. And here's what they had to do is that if Galicia goes so well – we ask them to do so in thousands of political initiatives, in thousands of amendments – it's to override that rule and stop attacking the workers and the public workers, because you're here to do this kind of bullshit. And, of course, also one thing that doesn't matter, is Galicia's audiovisual communication law. Nothing but twenty-three rules, Counselor. If this is democratic, then, well, I think you're portrayed. I'm not going to talk to him either about what we're taught in the law of the law of the bus, I'm not going to tell him; even what the European Court says about these things, Counsellor, I assume you know. So, I think it's important what they're doing: they're cicadas, they've got an absolute majority, and they're actually accompaniment law to change from a real blow to everything we're sketching here. And we also have this again that we have already denounced last year, and it is not necessary for you to report to the ESC. I'm not surprised they don't want me to report to the ESC, because after the last report, I suppose they're going to submit them to the sentence expressed by the ESC. I say I'm not surprised, because according to the regulatory rule, they have to report everything that has to do with matters of economic value or economic memory. Of course, this has no value, none, we're talking about taxes, we're talking about the economy, we're talking about a million things, but the ESC says you don't have to do anything, i.e. you do what you want and what you want. And I, Counselor, as last year was of star size a sort of baby check. Mrs. Muñoz's opponent in Vigo, of course, read Mrs. Muñoz's speech last year, which is a tremendous thing, because "Galice is niched" in this Christmas, "vegetative salt." I think it's still negative for now. I live in Ferrol, just like the wind we have prevents us from seeing things differently. But, of course, Mrs. Muñoz told us last year that the objective of these rules, of that cacicated law, the accompanying law, "was to encourage birth as the first objective, complemented by tax measures and package of measures that are included in the Galician Demographic Plan." So Mrs. Muñoz – I recommend you read it – comes here telling us a little less that Galicia is going to look great. The first thing we should do if they were serious, Counsellor – because we talk about serious things, that is taxes, that we talk about income, that we talk about democratic society – would be to evaluate the measures that propagandistically took last year forward. Because it's clear, and you'll agree with me, that the vegetable balance isn't going down, is that it's even worse in the year we're going about the year we discussed with Mrs. Muñoz. So, I suppose they'll change their policies, or do you pull yourself against a frontal? Because, really... I mean, why are they doing this? They're going against what they have to do. I'm not an economist, what I do is study, but really, this is – I don't know – a crazy thing. Balance? Negative. What's going to happen to your tax rigs? Well, what Mr. Beiras has already said to Mr. Puy in his appearance: they're deceiving citizenship, Counsellor. The cuts, the cuts, the tax gifts that are incorporating in a fearful manner in this text will be applied in 2017. It's gonna be another government that's going to have to cut, exactly the same medicine they're doing in the state, I'll tell you again. It used to be a problem that the Commissioner who carried this matter in Europe was very bad, who was from the Socialist Party. But now they've spoken and told us that they're lying, that the budgets they've presented in front of the state are false and that they have a hole in brutal social security and that there's going to be cuts as soon as the government changes in the Moncloa of more than ten billion euros, Counsellor. This medicine is the same as you practice here, exactly the same. Just as he keeps lying to us with that increase of EUR 363 million, he knows perfectly that they have been agreed and that they are from the return of the state, Counsellor. Just like the mind – and I'll say it again – with the spending ceiling, that you're subject to 1.8%, like the rest of the autonomous communities of the state. I insist: Thank you, not this that you're selling to us. So they're reckless and they're able to do whatever it takes to keep in power. That's right, that then cut off the Government from left-wings that will reach Galicia's Union without a doubt. And you wildlings, which is what they're going to do. But, look, the quality of democracy and the quality of a modern society – from the classics – is measured at the level of fiscal pressure it has. And we're still at the forefront of the European average, seven points; but by setting a normal example, we're at fifteen points from France. What you conceive of taxes – this fearsome gift they are doing – is what we lived in the city of Compostela yesterday, Counsellor, that's what we lived in the city of Compostela yesterday. That's right, pact and bipartite clamp. That's what we live for: lower taxes to continue cutting into social rights, in things that people need, Counselor. This is their policy in a firing way, because they cut down, tax comes down, and what happens at last is that there are cuts and, of course, there is poverty, there is poverty, and that's what we have, Counsellor. So if you were responsible for what you should do here, it was not only to lower the IRPF's yielded frame in a way that would fear, but to pursue a fair tax policy, as our Constitution says exactly. But by talking about more things, say: absolute improvisation. What am I gonna tell you? The tax of successions and donations – as the Fatenda technicians say – is better than to withdraw it, because it's actually cancelled; I don't say, I tell you, it's the Fatenda's own technicians. Or even because questions that will certainly arise... according to your memory, you say that you no longer enter more than one hundred and fifty million euros. I read, Mr. Counselor, they are letters but I read, then explain to me what they're going to cut off with that tax drop, though I'm from Latin and Greek. And then very interesting things that incorporate this memory, which I have already told Mr. Rueda in the appearance of budgets. Tell us why silence is going to be negative when public workers make a personal claim. Because, as I said in the previous intervention, what you're going to assume is that you force workers and public workers to judge all the proceedings, Counsellor; that's what this change means. And as the Legal Counsel says – and I already read it and I don't have time to read it literally, but you can read it, which is in memory – says you have to justify the general interest that you are protecting with that measure; because you are warned by the Juridical Counsel that you are violating Article 43 of Law 30/1992, Counsellor. It would be very good if the spokesperson of the People's Party had explained to us why they do these things, because – I insist – Juan Pueblo will pay. Very interesting things: a unique social story; this is called privatization, Counselor. And I'm also going to say very interesting things about what you have to do with what I told you about R & D+i, that this is the novelty of this rule, of the accompaniment law. The novelty is that you allow the application of private R & D rights with public resources. And even they allow all sorts of troops for the foundations and boards of administration nothing more and nothing less than that must be centrally public, which is the research of a country, Counsellor. Of course, after the Law of Administrative Rationalization – we have memory and work, Counsellor – and see in the annexes the number of research entities – the Bank of Blood, the Oncologic Center – which are central elements in a country, which have to be in the frontispic of the public character, you just made them private. And now they end this business for R & D, which from now on with this rule, Counselor, will be private. I mean, we have public resources for patents to be others; I suppose patents – I don't know – from Australia, because we're not going to be, Counsellor. So, actually, we're presenting a refund amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u53	...and we urge the return of this text. And if it would be good if at least they were formally pleased to explain to us the evaluation they make of the tax gift measures that they took forward last year to tell us that we were going to have a more fruitful and prosperous Galicia. Because really, look at the rate of vegetative growth and we're going terribly wrong, we're not Finland. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good morning to all. First, to say that we are here before the Law of fiscal and administrative measures, a peculiar law where there is them because it's not a law of nothing and at the same time it's a law of everything; a whole revolutionum which makes it very difficult for an in-depth analysis to be made. Last year the Government introduced a law of accompaniment as the one that once again presents the Government here, and was unanimously criticised by the entire opposition. This year the Government, disregarding all the criticisms of the opposition, re-presents this law here again, and I don't think it happens to me why. Well, maybe so, right, it could be because it's best because it criticizes the opposition because it turns out it's what the government has to do. I tell you, of course, that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group whenever we make amendments or criticisms to the Government, we do so from the responsibility and try to improve the rules that come out of this Parliament. Another reason why you can introduce this law here is for you to talk about the law and not talk about what we're interested in, which are the budgets. Or even you could bring this law here to justify what happened last year. What happened last year? For last year a tax bill was created for tax measures, a new tax - I don't know if you will remember it - the environmental mineral compensation tax. A tax which, of course, could not be created in the Budget Act because it prohibits Article 134.7 of the Constitution. And, of course, it ends the legislation – probably these are the last budgets – and it would be very bad that the Government during two legislations would only present a law of accompaniment, precisely a law that created a tribute; if we do it in two it seems that the thing is going better. This, in any case, forced me to make the same criticisms as I did to her companion, to the socierge of Fairy last year. Because when we make a criticism or amendment to the whole as is the case of a law, it is usually done by the bottom of that law; we do it by the bottom and also by the way, which we believe is not the way to do it. We are before a law, the law of accompaniment of budgets, which is dealt independently of urgency, but parallel to the law of budgets. These kinds of standards – which have been said here – are called omnibus laws – are so called because they cover a universality of materials – they speak of everything, of totally heterogeneous materials and which can hardly be connected to a single norm. These questions have, of course, in the doctrine, you can say no, even if you put them in the explanatory statement, they have – I think – a unanimous criticism. And why do you have this unanimous criticism? Because they take advantage of the procedural agility that the budget laws have without being affected by the restrictions that these budget laws have. He expressed it perfectly in the judgment of Constitutional 76/1992, which dealt with certain matters in the budgeting laws. The accompanying laws respect what forms are, the letter of the Constitution and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, but they do not respect the spirit of the norm, that is what the court says. Thus, the doctrine asserts that these accompanying laws would be at the bottom a piece of the Budget Law that segregates, separates and deals parallel to the Budget Law, but avoiding the limitations these rules have. After this presentation you will understand that the criticisms that come and are formulated on the fraud of this kind of law, the law fraud of these laws, these rules that are regarded as merely a technical dossier designed to draw out the limitations that it imposes on the budget laws. So there are a lot of authors – I like to mention De Castro – who conclude that the laws of measures constitute a fraud to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in terms of limits of content. Limitations of content, as I said to you, are mainly related to the prohibition of article 134.7 of the Constitution. Obviously, today's law does not create any new tribute, but I do recognize it, but with this law it prevents each and every one of the issues that address this particular law, and from our point of view it results in a decline in the political and legal quality of this House. This rule, from our point of view, is contrary to transparency and, of course, does not facilitate the proper management of this House in drafting the laws. This law prevents the processing of these rules independently, giving each one of them the time and debate they deserve. And on the other hand, there's a joint debate on all of them that prevents it from sinking into each of the multiple themes it plays. It is also necessary to add – as previous colleagues also said – that these rules are sick of multiple reports that would be preceptive, as it could be, to the Board of Auditors or other sectoral reports that would be very convenient in this kind of standard. For all this, we are going to ask you to return this rule. This law is a law that is not very voluminous, it consists of 80 pages and is divided into five parts, you said it in your intervention. The first part, an exposition of motives that I'm trying to explain from my point of view the inexplicable; what it's trying to explain is why the Government does this accompaniment law. And I allow myself the luxury of transcribing some, he says, among other things, that "commits to the achievement of certain multi-year guidance goals pursued by the Community through budgetary execution." Will you tell me what you have to do with the budget execution and multi-year orientation to return the boring days to the staff members and – do you know? – punish them with mild penalties for not registering housing in the board register or certain changes in the tourism register? I, of course, see nothing to do with the multi-year execution. Or even justify your doctrinal approval by saying that these rules are no longer the subject of debate because the Supreme Court has decided it; you also said so in your intervention. I believe that the Lords of the Government are confused what is a doctrinal debate with which it is, of course, – I repeat: the whole doctrine is in agreement – with which it is a debate of legality. Of course, we don't think this rule is illegal, because if we wanted it, what we'd do was go through it. What we're saying is that it's a norm that doesn't favor transparency and that it's done to override the limitations that budget laws have; that's what we're saying. As we also believe that, for example, when this House asks for the presence of the President of the Union and this one does not appear because most of Parliament so understands, because, of course, we do not say that it is illegal, even if it may be difficult at times. After this exhibition of reasons, you have – as you said – two titles. The first title, the one devoted to tax measures, changes, firstly, the IRPF, which I have to tell you, and I tell you in addition, that increases the arrangements and, therefore, I recognize you that progress is increasing. That's right, up to 60,000 euros, from that amount they all pay equal, 22.5%, they earn 60,001 euros, as they earn 60 or 6 million euros. Besides, I have to tell you that without often entering this rule, which will be discussed later when we discuss the articulate, yes I would like to know – I told you in your presence – if the Government now when we're getting out of the crisis makes this tax more progressive, my question, what I wonder is, why during the crisis this tax was less progressive?, did the Government not want to pay more than they have? I think it's a question, of course, that I leave there and that it's not easy to answer. The title also changed first the tax on successions and donations, with great candy on the part of the Government, announcing that they will no longer pay 97% of the Greeks, since in the inheritances the first 400,000 euros would already be exempt for both children and ascending spouses. Of course, we'll look at the kids when it's the articulate debate, that this is not such a big benefit, because there were already a lot of people who benefited from this. They also alter the tax on documented heritage transmissions and legal acts, in which they apply a reduction to agricultural holdings, but which, by the way, they already had a 98% exemption, priority agricultural holdings – as you well know – that are the majority in Galicia, and that also enjoyed this exemption since Law 19/1995, that is, for more than ten years. And similar to the rest of the deductions of this tax linked to agriculture, which are mere PP measures, I say – do not misunderstand – are advertising and propaganda measures, but ultimately do not involve large incomes. Yes, I would like that throughout this budget to be able to quantify how much this regulatory change will cause the Government to lose. Changes are also made, as is customary in budget laws, in rates, prices and sanctions regulated by the Autonomous Community. Without entering – I repeat – to evaluate the content of each of these, which will be objected in the debate of the articulate, I would like to know why these rules change them here and do not change them in the Budget Act, in the sixth title, which is entitled as you know "Tax rules", in which you only have an article, Article 62, which is "Criterios de affectación de specifici Tributos". I, of course, don't know if you can explain it to me, or even the Government spokesman, who I suppose will agree with this, why this amendment is made in the accompanying law and it is not done in the Budget Law, as I think it should be. So, if I may, I would tell you that the conclusion of all this is that Title I of the Accompanying Law could perfectly, everything that is in Title I I would say: I should be in the Budget Act in Title VI. So, all this procedure we understand that, from our point of view, it needs, and so we do, an amendment to its totality. If we continue to analyze Title II, "Administrative measures", here we come to what I told them earlier: a totality revolutionum which, of course, affects everything. We'll keep trying to figure out what he does in this title. If we get closer, first, to chapter I, it's about public employees. This amends the additional permits for vacations and self-employment, which increase according to the seniority of staff members. And here I also ask: why isn't this regulated in Title II of the Budget Law, which is entitled "staff costs", like the rest of the staff measures? I don't know why you have to put it in the accompanying law and don't put it in the Budget Law? After they dedicate Chapter II to mobility and amend Law 4/2013, of May 30, of public transport of persons in tourism vehicles in Galicia. What they do with this change – and we'll come in, I tell you, often – is to leave this law, their own law, a two-year law, a two-year-old law, of May 2013, with no content; that's to say, empty a law of less than two years ago. Of course, something really curious in a law of accompaniment. With regard to chapter III, on housing, they amend two things of Law 8/2012, of Galician housing: the first introduce a new slight infringement, which seems good to us to have empty dwellings which are not given up in the Community Housing Census; and the second enables the municipalities to make forced expropriations for reasons of social interest to do the appropriate works provided for in Article 10(1)(b) of Law 49/1960 of the horizontal property. I tell them that, in principle, we agree with this amendment, it seems to us, but I have doubts, legal doubts, that the Council of Galicia can regulate this, because we understand that this is state competence. I suppose the legal services will have looked at this, because it's not going to be that the municipalities are going to expropriate and then the courts come and tell them that on the basis of this law they're not legal. Then chapter IV, "Water"; chapter V, "Fishers' Warehouses"; chapter VI, "Sports"; chapter IX, "Energy"; chapter X, "Official Chambers of Commerce", of course, has nothing to do with budgets or the Greek economy. So I don't know why they're doing it here either, unless it's because of the changes in the rules they've made and they don't have the results you expected. With regard to chapter VII, "Tourism", they amend the Galician Tourism Act 7/2011, with changes in the tourism register, and also modify a slight infringement. In Chapter VIII, Social Services, they create a unique electronic social story. But, yes, forget to put on a wonderful word that is "public," as other fellows have already said. I think you should look at this, because, of course, it's not going to be that clinical stories end up in hands that are not public. They also say in this chapter that equipment intended to provide residential services for persons with disabilities can provide services to persons under 16 years of age. Something that we think has enough entity, because we're dealing with what we're dealing with, how to be discussed in a specific law about it, because it's not going to be that we turn the centers into people's warehouses. Finally, referring to chapter XI, "Investigation", they amend Law 5/2013, of May 30, of little more than two years of antiquity; it is Galicia's Research and Innovation Act, which by its importance and transcendence should be treated specifically in a law. The government what you're doing here is hiding that in this law what's going on is that what they had to do with the investigative law they didn't do. That law didn't do what it was designed to do, and therefore they have to change it, and they don't want to address the amendment of this law. I repeat: a law of little more than two years. With regard to Chapter XII, "Agriculture", they amend two points of the laws 2/2005, of food quality, and 7/2012, of the hills of Galicia, which, in our view, do not have any place in this accompanying law either. Finally, Chapter XIII, "Planning and Economic-Financial Management", could perfectly be included in Title IV of the Budget Act, "Budget Management". And chapter XIV, "Local Administration", has an identical title in the Budget Act, in particular title V, "Local Corporations." We would be talking about the transitional and final provisions, which, of course, would fall perfectly within the Budget Act. Although I can't resist talking about the last fourth provision, which amends Law 9/2011 of 9 November...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u56	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u57	...–Yes, finished, President—of Galicia's audiovisual media, and which is already rizo: then we will debate the framework agreement and just before we put the back door that the director general of television remains without saying until this Parliament decides to approve its appointment. Something really – I say – incredible to put into a law of accompaniment. So they know we're keeping our refund amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u58	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u59	Thank you. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As has been customary in the discussion of the Law on fiscal and administrative measures accompanying the Budget Act, much of the debate and much of the speeches of the opposition spokesmen have focused on formal issues, i.e. whether it is a correct legislative technique or not to use the laws of measures. I've been talking about this since this rostrum and I'm not going to argue, obviously, that I'm not the best example of a legislative technique in the laws of measures and of accompaniment. But I suppose you don't, either, as some explicitly acknowledged it, argue that we are before a law that is perfectly constitutional, do not argue that your procedure allows you to exchange views on all and each of these articles through the presentation of amendments and of your debate in motion, then in committee and the new debate at last in plenary. Logically, the rigor and depth with which these amendments are addressed will already depend on each group and on each spokesman as he decides to deal with the debate. And I suppose they won't discuss either that it's a weak legislative technique, but it was originated precisely as a guarantee when the government of Felipe González in 1994, which was the first to introduce the technique of the accompaniment law, went to the Constitutional Court and this clearly informed him that the annual vigency of the Budget Law prevents certain decisions that until then were adopted in the Budget Act and that required an ordinary law, would rule in the sense that there remains indefinite duration until a new law overturns it. And, therefore, we're not going to go too far in these substantive matters. Because I don't suppose you'll be in a position to contradict that being a legislative technique, that I recognize that it's not the best of legislative techniques, because referring to this as "cascades" is a bit excessive, especially when we see that there are several autonomous communities that are these same days dealing with a law similar to what we're dealing with today in this House. Some of these communities, such as Madrid, La Rioxa or Castela-León, are communities that are chaired by the People's Party, but, curiously, there are others with a left-wing government, in which they participate with great enthusiasm Left United or any of the denominations with which Left-United is now presented to the various electoral processes, such as Valencia. Valencia has committed the "cascade" to introducing a Law of Measures on October 30, this year, which is already in the Valencian Parliament. And yesterday I was also able to confirm that it was qualified by the Navarre Bureau, where it also governs the United Left, along with Bildu, with Podemos, and all those who now make up a candidature by which we are seeing by the media, and a Law of measures was presented that was qualified yesterday by the Bureau of the Navarre Parliament. From Asturias we have no news because they have not submitted a Law of Measures, nor have they submitted a Law of Budgets. What I want to say about this is that it is a weak legislative technique, but it is necessary, precisely as a guarantee of the legality of the measures accompanying the budgets. Because the fact is that budget policy refers to decisions of income, expenditure and management that have a logical impact on the allocation of public resources, which are regulated by law, and precisely for that reason this government, like other autonomouss of all political colors, presents a law of accompaniment. I'd rather not get entangled with the forms and talk from the bottom. Because what we have is a fiscal policy that accompanies the budgets in this Act of measures that reinforce the expected growth for the year next 2.5 % of GDP, when it is said that we are not going to grow. Well, we're seeing what the growth rates of the Greek economy are in relation to those that the Greek economy had two-three years ago. We are strengthening growth, there is an increase in expenditure, mainly of social expenditure, in investment in budgets of around EUR 350 million and, at the same time, introducing a reduction tax policy amounting to EUR 140 million, this Act of measures by reforming the taxes to which I will now refer, which are in addition to the other tax benefits, which have already been introduced into budgets since the People's Party is making budgets, amounting to EUR 364 million, basically, half of tax benefits that have a social component. And that's why we want to congratulate the advisor and his team on the reasonable balance they have achieved in the proposal for fiscal reform in the classic terms of the public farm: goals of efficiency, equity and economic growth. And very especially in terms of equity and economic growth, because, of course, an budget that leaves more resources in the hands of citizens and at the same time boosts spending is an expansive budget, which is what we think needs the Greek economy right now to sharpen that path of growth. In relation to tax measures, the income tax of physical persons presents the Government a new tariff which is enormously progressive in relation to the time when it governed the left, in 2011, which I believe in the year 2011 the left already recognized that there was a crisis, because the crisis began a couple of years earlier. I believe that in 2011 there was a rate of income tax that had a certain degree of progression, and in 2016 after the change of rates by popular governments in Madrid, the state and Galicia there will be a rate. So if we want to see progressiveity, which is just how it grows what taxes a person as their base grows, and tax is progressive when it grows more than proportionally what is taxed in relation to what grows the base, and we note that what affects together with other factors, how it can be the least exempt, how deductions can be, how it can be the existence of more or less fraud, how it can be the consideration of the family unit and even the assistance or not of inflation, one of the things that most affects is the rate, and what this Government modifies is the rate. A rate – I want to remember – that applies in Galicia to incomes, of which 70% is in section 2, that is to say, of EUR 17,707 at the maximum annual income, and they get to add 92% in the fourth instalment, that is, the income that is about EUR 33,007. Well, if we take the fare and see what was paid with the Socialist Government in 2011, for those who were on the first stage, who earned EUR 12,450, the quota was EUR 2,978 and it was EUR 2,365,50, that is, EUR 622 minus. What you've earned the least is €12,450, you pay less, i.e. 5%, i.e. almost – you do sometimes talk about alms and things like that – you make it almost the equivalent of a fourteen-year-old, i.e. a monthly payment including extras. On the other hand, against what you said: whoever earns 100,000 euros, paid 36,116 in 2011, now pays 36,317, that is, 201 euros more. But whoever earns double, 200,000, paid 80,166, now pays 81,317, that is, 1,151 euros more. Therefore, this reform is evident that it is progressive. And it is progressive – and we are what we like most – because they pay less than they have. Because the people who made €12,450 with you paid €600 more, and in the next deal with you paid €635 more, and those who won up to €20,000 more paid €741 more with you; on the other hand, those who earn more now also pay more, 400, 900, 1,100, depending on the income tranches. The BNG disagrees with the frames. I, having analyzed its amendments, can tell you that on entry, where it reaches the lowest incomes, the BNG and the PP agree about the 80% contribution of the total taxpayers of Galicia; I mean to fix the difference fields, because indeed, in Galicia 70% of the contributors are in the frame of up to EUR 17,707. And including the 20,200-euro stretch, in your proposal they present exactly the same guy as us. We'll probably be talking about almost 90% of the taxpayers, who are the least won, and the Block and PP agree to what they should contribute; you don't agree Left United, AGE; AGE still wants to raise these taxes more to the taxpayers. And whenever you want, and we'll have a chance if you take this law, we'll go back to the subject of retention, and we'll go back to the subject of when I pay and who pays, and when you pay for these kinds of taxes. Because the state will give them the same, so if you raise your taxes, who will pay is the Greek contributor. Next year, Junta's going to have the same resources, but who's going to have less resources next year with his fiscal proposal is the Greek contributor. And that's why we don't agree with your proposal for a fee, which they discuss as a regression, when I think I've shown that it's clearly progressive. [[Applause]] And let's not forget, if we talk about progressiveity, that in this budgeting, this accompanying law does not affect the tax of heritage, of which we have recently learned that Galicia is the one that has the highest effective type in all of Spain, at 0.75%, when the average of autonomous communities is 0.43. Lessons of solidarity, of progressiveity, of redistribution of income to this group, to these budgets and to this very few fiscal policy, Mrs Díaz, very few. [[Applause]] Succession tax reform seems also evident to me. We are in a context that is characterized in Spain because 9.5% of people who receive an inheritance give up on it because they cannot face the payment of taxes. In Galicia it is less, it is 7.3, but still in 2013 – the latest data I know – some 1,683 Greeks renounced the inheritance received from their parents as a result that they were unable to meet their tax obligations. I think the Government here has made a very interesting balancing operation. Succession tax, which has many justifications, is true that it's an incentive tax. I can understand that from a maximum egalitarian stance you could say that no one who doesn't work for what he has, has to pay everything, taxes 100 percent on incomes. What social incentive would that generate about saving, about the behavior of people who save and work to make their children enjoy it? Would it be reasonable for a society where parents could not have passed on to children, so that parents would spend their whole lives happily – I wish it was cheerful – all that they had accumulated with their savings and the work of their lives? No, but it's not fair to touch a lottery like the one who plays the lottery and doesn't pay. So, I think you've done here an exercise of balance between the two principles, for which 400,000 euros per heir, that considering other circumstances we might be talking about what is the transmission so common in Galicia of a dwelling, some extra good, because it seems reasonable to us, because they continue to tax those who enter by inheritance more than this and continue to tax, of course, all those who are not from group 1 or group 2, that is, those who are not parents, children or spouses in the direct line. So, I think it was done here an interesting operation that reinforces the character of this tribute as a system of social incentives that in this case fosters saving and promotes transmission between parents and children without greater social costs, at a time when we are giving up inheritances. And rural transmissions, because it obviously has an economic goal: land mobilization, competitiveness and there are no additional tax costs to farmers who want to gain size to make their dimensions more profitable. The BNG, well, because it still wants to raise the tax on heritage transmissions, which is one of the taxes that has the least theoretical justification of those that exist, wants to put the tax on bank deposits or large areas, which are taxes that are already said in those communities that approved them that are contrary to the law, even those that approved them when you proposed it here. In short, new resources involve more social expenditure, reduced tax burdens, done fairly and ensuring economic growth. There are many other measures, I would like to point out at least one if I may, because we will have the opportunity to debate all the other administrative media during the next debates in the press and in committee, which is the reduction by transmission of death caused by the habitual housing when it is abandoned for reasons other than will. As you know, it was a resolution adopted unanimously in this House in the middle of February 19th, and I want to point out that this unanimous agreement of this House is being complied with by the Law of Measures. There are many social measures, I think it's hard to justify that an empty housing census is made that are property of credit institutions. I think it's hard to object – that there was some comment here that I didn't understand very well – to the recovery of the days by seniority of officials and to say that this has no incidence or cost at all. Do you know how much it costs to recover every day from antiquity to the public archives? Over 3 million euros for every two days to recover. The total of the three-day recognition expenditure will be around 10 million euros; it's a measure that has a clear social impact. The one in clinical social history I'm going to criticize him too, but because he stays short. It is essential that all social policies of the Union be known, if they know, if they are known, in order to make better use of resources. There can't be limited resources and we don't know who needs the real resources and who we're really giving them. This is a step, but here I think we should even go further and impose that social assistance must be conditioned to a global knowledge of the situation of the person receiving social assistance, as a mechanism for reaching and reaching the social assistance to whom it has to come. There are other measures, I think it's confusing. Let's see, the public sector can participate in a commercial society but be of public capital and say that the country's research depends on public research it seems to me that it is not to understand what's going on in the sector; Spain and Galicia are particularly different from the countries that innovate because the public sector is what innovates and not the private sector. What we have to do is motivate the private sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u61	...for it to innovate, and a mechanism is precisely that of the establishment of commercial enterprises. [[Applause]] On television, well, there is obviously no agreement in this House to elect a general director by consensus right now. I can testify to it very in the first person, there are two alternatives: either we don't apply the law and we lose all the savings that also lead to the transformation of the company into corporation, and we don't set up the information committee, and we don't spread the whole law, blocking the General Directorate of Television, or the government, responsibly, ensures that the law will be complied with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u63	...as long as this House elects the Director General by consensus. In the meantime, of course, we will have to look for the agreement, which we are always open to, on the other hand. In conclusion, an ambitious budget programme – it is possible because we leave the recession that is aimed at strengthening growth, strengthening equity and social policy. We are open to amendments that improve this legal text, but we are certainly going to reject the amendments altogether. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u64	Thank you very much. Replica round of amending parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u65	What seems to me to be more fascinating is that if you want to sell this bill to us as fair measures that favor economics, research, development, business creation, really I'm hallucinating, because we're at a time of recovery. And that's what you tell thousands of Greeks and Greeks who survive with wages of misery! How dare you say it's time to lower taxes because we're on recovery? Well, if we're on recovery, get the new Vigo hospital, Álvaro Cunqueiro, to be public. That's the first step. They stop working on health services; they stop working on education; they're left with public health technology. They are given, especially to people who live in rural areas, home care services because they don't have them, the older people who live in our rural areas are abandoned. Abandoned, like dependents. Not to mention sick psychics, totally abandoned! I said it before. And the minors in institutions, gender violence... but how dare they say we're in an economic situation where we can get less into the public archives, with everything that's falling into our country! An education that gives no solution to children with special needs. We've talked about it thousands of times! Oversized classes, children who travel miles to school. A real de-protection scandal. Social services that don't cover their needs. A poverty that spreads all over the country, with poor workers. Workers who, after their work days, depend on the Food Bank for food and depend on the help of Caritas and other NGOs. And you don't even get the colors looking at what's around and coming here saying the fat cows are coming! For it will be the People's Party, because society is not enough. As it does not reach the small trade, totally abandoned in this bill. How it doesn't reach the people who charge the risk. He said that before, more than 1,900 people were waiting. But you say it'll be for money, if there's money for everything! Especially for you and your friends. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not a fault, it's reality. The reality of it is that the public concessions that are given, the concerts that are given, neither inspected nor evaluated, are carried out indefinitely without any justification. So we have what we have today, and so are the judges as they are. But it also has this bill of total transparency and full participation of society and opposition. Nineteen laws, eight of them approved by the Feijóo Government. It puts them here, through this back door, precisely to prevent their debate, to prevent them from emitting themselves, to prevent the gathering of improvements by society itself. So it's a coup d'état to budgets processed through that law. I don't know what they're pretending to be. Administrative silence uses it as it pleases them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u66	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u67	I'm going to finish. Administrative silence to deny public workers their rights. Of course, a total scandal. I'm running out of time, but I'll tell you what to say, Mr. Puy. Does it allow you to exchange opinions? I believe that we are not in Parliament to exchange views. We're going to debate, not to exchange. There's a difference, ma'am! [[Murmurs.]] There's a difference! If you want to exchange opinions, you can go to the bar. If you want to debate to draw conclusions and reach agreements that benefit society, that is why Parliament is here. But it can be seen that the People's Party prefers to go out of the bar rather than debate healthy. You're also saying that the IRPF discount will benefit 70% of the Greeks who earn less than EUR 17,707 a year. Yes, yes, those are the Greek wages! But who's going to favor, basically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u69	...is those who earn more than 40,000 euros a year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Puy, with words you can always play. With regard to taxes, the IRPF, by definition, is a progressive tax; another thing is to discuss whether with the changes introduced in some way if progress is lost – from our point of view, yes – and another thing is to discuss whether other steps do not increase sufficiently. From our point of view, in some way it doesn't increase sufficiently, and I'm setting an example. In incomes higher than EUR 100,000, only an increase in taxation of around EUR 300 – which does not reach even an additional 2% – was applied when average and low incomes had to bear much higher tax increases all these last years. By setting an example, I see indirect taxes. And if we talk about progressiveity, what is the reality? What is the reality of the fiscal policies that you practice in the German Government and the Central Government? The reality is, in recent years, the weight of the tax contribution of income from work on the total contribution has increased significantly, and of course it is far greater than its contribution to GDP. What's the reality? Since you govern, it has increased significantly in the total collection, which is provided through indirect taxes, which do not distinguish according to the taxpayer's income. And what's the reality? Since you govern, the weight of the contribution of average and low incomes has increased, to the detriment of the weight in the contribution of high incomes. And in Galicia he did it, in addition, above the state average. Today there is even news from the press that gathers this data that I am facilitating in this debate. You are taking advantage of this debate to continue to publish reports on budgets. And in that sense, Mr. Puy and Mr. Counsellor, I must reiterate to you what I have already told you in your presence in commission. It is not conciliable to make expansive policies in spending by making tax reductions and, above all, to say that you will continue to meet – however much that BNG does not communicate with that religion – with deficit targets. It's not conciliable. The consequence will be that these budgets will be the same as the State budgets, where the European Union is already warning that the next government resulting from the December elections will have to apply cuts. These budgets are not credible, they obey solely and solely for an electionist purpose, Counselor. And finally, Mr Puy acknowledges that it is not a good legislative technique to accompany the budgets, but that, in any case, he has resorted to the Budgets Accompanying Law as a guarantee of the legality of the measures accompanying the budgets. And I ask you what it has to do with budgets modifying the Internal Trade Act to speed up the granting of authorizations for them to continue to be implanted in Galicia's largest commercial area. What's that got to do with budgets, Mr. Puy? I ask you, what do you have to do with the budgets of many of the legal changes that you introduce – nothing more and nothing less than 23 laws – through this accompanying law? And it has to be seen, as a guarantee of the legality of the measures accompanying the budgets, that you amend Galician Public Media Law to extend indefinitely in your post the current Director General. Look, Mr. Puy, you can dress it up as you like, but the intention of the People's Party is clear, it's obvious. They say there will be no consensus because they have no desire for consensus. And they're already announcing that you, after the next autonomous elections, will exercise as a blocking minority to prevent that charge from being renewed, perpetuate in your office the current CEO, and therefore perpetuate, also in the next legislation, the partisan control that you exercise on Galician radiotelevision. Which – by the way, we hope that at least this will serve as a reflection for some parliamentary group in this House – does not merely ratify the reasons why at the time we reject the renewal of the Board of Directors of CRTVG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u73	Mr Jorquera, the only positive thing about this debate and these intense legislative changes that we are having is that it's something real, they're going to lose the Union of Galicia. They're keeping everything tight and tight. They're terrified, Mr. Puy! And look, Mr. Puy, I'll do it if you want, 'cause you're a little sloppy, eh! –We're playing this trick, but you're freaking out – a sketch so you know which places we're each of the political organizations. And I'm going to do it in all provinces, municipalities, so you know when you talk here and at least speak strictly. Look if I'm gonna help you! So, when I talk, you can at least know if the Block is, if it's Left United, if it's not, if it's Bildu, and it speaks correctly. 'Cause he's just got a kick, but he's got a big kick! Mr. Puy, to us lessons, in this matter, none, none. Because you're the ones with the amnesty, you're the ones who've been charged... yes. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Tellado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u74	Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz, don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u75	Mr. Tellado, please. The ones in the fiscal amnesty are you and Convergence – so – and Union, Mr Tellado. You guys. Those who lower the taxes, who promised in the campaign, and climb them when they rule. The IVE, Mr. Tellado, that my daughter's leathers and all over the world are taxed at 21%. That's the march of the People's Party, the social policies, Mr. Tellado, those that you like so much. You take the march of something substantial. Look, Mr. Puy, any one who reads his speeches, those of the current advisor, those of Mr. Montoro and Mr. de Guindos – I am a masoch and the lion – have like a vest, and the collection is quite false, what happens is that I recognize them as legitimate, for they are neoliberal, so I already know who I am arguing with here. And your collection is that you prefer money in your pocket. You say in that thesis, which is economically false, that in this way in the pocket we stir up consumption. It's false, Mr. Puy, you know that. The problem you have is they don't want taxes, they don't want that. And the problem with us and the majority of society is that taxes are used to redistribute income and to have public services, Mr. Puy. That's why there's your trap. It's not true that, having the Eurines in the pocket, we're going to change the economic cycle or do something elementary, which is to have an equal society, Mr. Puy; it's to have public schools, children's schools; it's to have public health, Mr. Puy. Not only Anamcio Ortega, but everyone. And that's the ideological difference. So I know you're consistent, I literally took note of what you said. Perfect, I buy that; but that's why we're going to vote against it. And he didn't explain to me what they're going to do or how much they're gonna cut after that tax drop, Mr. Puy. And you can't say it because the trumpet they're doing if it falls down, of course, Mr. Puy! [[Murmurs.]] And he didn't explain it to me either that he knows it's true – he tried to back Mr. Beiras in the budget appearance and he knows it's true – that this cut applies in 2017, Mr. Puy. Yes, Mr. Puy! So, look, there are no lessons. What you know is that you don't believe in taxes, you believe in a society of rich and poor, of classes... that exists! [[Murmurs.]] Truly, Mr. Puy, that exists; it really exists. And, as Warren Beatty said, they're going to win you, Mr. Puy, and they want the Eurins in their pocket. Yes, Mr. Puy, you as you wish. More things. Sure, we're growing up, Mr. Puy. For if we are growing – I ask you again – instead of changing only those aspects of Law 1/2012, of February 29, they are derogating from the norm...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u76	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u77	...they stop attacking workers and public workers. One thing only, Madam President. Look, I'm going to read article 41 on R & D+i, Mr. Puy, that this rule seems to be made for Amancio Ortega. And it says, article 34 that changes: "The application of private law to contracts relating to the promotion, management and transfer of results of research activity, development and innovation. First, they are governed by private law applicable in general, subject to the principle of freedom of covenants, and may be directly adjudicated... – Mr. Puy – "...the following contracts relating to promotion, management..." – nothing less and nothing less – "and transfer of research results." "Point two." –I don't have time to read everything – "In any case, the transmission of rights on the results of the research activity..." –a normal country with public resources, of course – "...will be made with a counterbalance corresponding to its market value." And point three, you regulate surpluses. Mr. Puy, this looks like something very recent that they just did with Amancio Ortega, that is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u79	...to set up private foundations for them to remain justly with this, with added value. Mr. Puy, made the rule for your friends. And look, Mr. Puy, the caicada – I'll say again – of the change, of the metaphoric coup d'état, in the public body of Galicia's Public Television Radio is on track, of note. So, as much as they close up, block up, the citizenship of this country throws them out of this town...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u81	...not kicks, but democratically voting. The first blow will take the 20D, and the next blow, Mr. Puy – since they are holding on – actually...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u83	...in Galician board. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u84	Socialist Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u85	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Puy, I appreciate you saying that you were not the most appropriate norm and that you were a weak legislative technique. At least we agree on something. And if it's not a proper standard, it's not appropriate for Felipe Gonzalez to do it, it's done by the Valencian community, or it's done by the German Government. So I think we'd have to improve in that respect. As I told you in my first intervention, this kind of law is taking advantage of the agility that the Budget Act has, dealing urgently, in parallel, with another set of rules that nothing has to do with the budgetary norm, or tearing apart part of this budgetary norm and putting it into this law. Of course, I repeat, I don't understand why this is done. As far as you're concerned about the flies, look, yes, they'll have an increase in the budgets of the Union, but for more reason they should be in the budgets of the Union itself. I don't know why you're tearing this out and going to the Budget Law. It should be in the budgets of the Galician board in Title II, in the staff costs, like the rest of the staff costs. Because I suppose you're going to the same match or you're going to cover in the same chapter the expenses incurred by these Muscosos or by these canoes as the rest of the staff's expenses. [[Murmurs.]] So – I repeat – I don't know why they're breaking down. A part, of course, of this rule should – I repeat – be in the budget rule, and it has no justification whatsoever to be found outside. In particular, I refer to Title I of tax measures, which should be in Title VI of the Budget Act, which are tax rules. Chapter I of Title II, which is public employees, should be in Title II, staff costs. And Chapter VIII of Title II of the Accompanying, Planning and Financial Management Act should also be in Title IX. Finally, Chapter XIV of Title II of the Act of Accompaniment and Local Administration should also go to Title V of Local Corporations. The rest should be made independent rules so that they can be discussed in this Parliament; because I also suppose that the rest of the rules will also be discussed in the presentation, not just these. You were talking about the bottom of the matter. Mr. Puy, you were talking about fiscal policy and you were saying that this budget has a reduction of EUR 140 million in income, tax benefits of more than EUR 350 million, and increases social benefits. Well, look, I'm telling you the truth, I don't know how the numbers get married, I'm -- I was telling you -- they don't marry me; I know you marry them or make us marry the hood. What's going to happen to you is the way it happened to the government of the state, which, before these budgets are approved by the European Union, tells you that they will have to run deficits in order to meet their numbers. And with regard to the rate you were talking about, the IRPF. Tell him I don't know where you want to go back up. I went back to last year's -- I didn't want to go any further -- by comparing homogeneous data, this year with the previous year, with the modified data. Of course, progressiveity – I say it – has increased – I know it –; what I haven't explained to myself is why last year, which was more crisis, and the previous one wasn't. They still don't answer this question. You speak very skillfully of absolute numbers, but I'm talking about relative numbers. From 60,000 euros, proportionally, everyone taxes the same in Galicia. It reaps the same thing that earns 60,001 euros as it earns 6 million euros, 22.5%. In absolute data, of course, it is much more that earns 6 million euros. I'm going to finish, but I don't want to do it without reference to what's going to happen if, probably, if this accompanying law is passed, I suppose, by most of the People's Group, it will be so. In particular, I am referring to the famous last-quarter disposition. I understand that it should be – as it cannot be otherwise – before approving this framework mandate, approving or appointing the Director General. I don't know, Mr. Puy, why do you take it for granted that you won't agree to appoint this general manager; I don't know. Unless the only candidate to be a director general is what he is currently, then perhaps he is not. What I am telling you is that, in any case, the debate in this Parliament cannot be superseded or the votes of this Parliament by a provision in an accompanying law to keep sine die in charge of a person. [[Applause]] Thank you very much and nothing more. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u86	Thank you very much. Let us turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We shut the doors. We begin with the vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the draft law of transparency and good governance. First, amendment by the Joint Group, document No. 43084. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed (Doc. # 43084), presented to the draft law of transparency and good government. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 39; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u87	We then voted on the amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, document No. 43127. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 43127), presented to the draft law of transparency and good government. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 39; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u88	Finally, we voted on the amendment to the full refund of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left, document No 43107. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left (Doc. # 43107), presented to the draft law on transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 39; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u89	Rejected by the amendments to the whole refund, the bill continues its parliamentary process. We then vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. We started with the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group, document No. 43217. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed (Doc. # 43217), submitted to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u90	We voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, document No. 43210. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 43210), submitted to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u91	We voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, document No. 43211. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left (Doc. # 43211), submitted to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u92	Finally, we voted on the amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document 43218. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (Doc. # 43218), submitted to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u93	Rejected by the amendments tabled, the bill continues its parliamentary process. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2. Debate and vote on the proposal for a framework mandate of the Corporation Radio and Television de Galicia S.A., adopted by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u94	By agreement of the Bureau of 10 November 2015 the procedure for the elaboration and approval of the framework mandate provided for in Article 32 of Law 9/2011 of 9 November 2011 of the public media for audiovisual communication in Galicia began. In accordance with the fourth rule of the regulators of this proceeding, the Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, adopted on 30 October 2015 the proposal for a framework mandate which is now put to the debate and vote in this plenary, together with the particular votes not accepted by the Joint Parliamentary Groups, the Nationalist Block Galego, the Alternative Galician Left and Socialists of Galicia, registration numbers 43083, 43103, 43105 and 43104, respectively. The debate will consist of a round of parliamentary groups for the defence of their particular votes, in reverse order to their numerical importance, followed by another round of the group that has no particular vote, and both for a maximum time of ten minutes. First, individual votes will be voted on, which will be adopted or rejected by a simple majority. The following shall be put to the vote: the proposal for a framework mandate adopted by Commission 1a, which shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds, i.e. 50 votes. We therefore begin with the turn of the parliamentary groups to defend their particular votes to the proposal for a framework mandate. We started with the Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u95	Thank you, President. Once again, the People's Party has turned its absolute majority into an absolutist government, imposing its criterion and interests on the whole of Greek society. But in this case it is especially serious and anti-democratic, because if any one is understood by the entire Greek people as their own, that is Galician Radio-Television. Therefore, any regulations relating to the Galician Radio-Television Corporation – in particular this framework mandate, as well as the programme contracts – should have greater political support and social consensus. The reality is that this framework mandate went through the process of preventing the submission of alternative texts to the introduction of amendments, at a presentation meeting, so that the PP would only report that it did not accept any amendment to the opposition and unilaterally approved the text submitted by the People's Party itself and no other committee procedure would be allowed. There wasn't even a chance to defend the amendments or trade them. Quick and running, without accepting any amendment and without dialogue, without social participation. The People's Party wants to approve as soon as possible the framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation to ensure control over the entity for the next nine years that will be in charge of the document. And I ask, is this the dialogue that Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the People's Party are offering citizenship in their electoral speech? Is this the citizen participation promoted by the law of citizen participation? Is this the transparency that you propose in the Transparency Act that we have just dealt with? On 16 December 2011 the Law 9/2011, of Galicia's audiovisual media, was published in the DOG. This law establishes in its transitional fourth provision that the election of the Director or Director General and other members of the Board of Directors shall be carried out within a maximum of six months from the entry into force of the law. The People's Party failed to fulfil this deadline for years, but last August in the extraordinary plenary, after a pact with the PSOE, proceeded to elect the members of the Management Board, although they cannot take office until Parliament approves this framework mandate, since, in accordance with the provisions of the fifth transitional provision of Law 9/2011, the first framework mandate will be processed and approved by Parliament of Galicia within the time limit set for the first election of the Director or Director General and of the other members of the Management Board. Now, four years later, the People's Party is in a hurry. Why? Because they know they're going to lose the elections to the state and then the Welsh people, and they want to keep control of Galician Radio-Television tight until 2020. The People's Party will give a real spectacle of cave behaviour in order to be able to adopt this framework mandate on its own, as it will have to put it to three votes, as set out in article 32 of the law. It must be approved by Parliament by a majority of 2/3. If that majority is not reached, as it will be today, you will probably have to bring it back to this Parliament to be approved by a majority of 3/5. And if I don't get it, you'll have to bring it back to approve it for the most part. A true cacicada lesson, a true lack of transparency and a true lack of social participation in something as important as Galician Radio-Television. Now that you've already secured control of the entity, one day, when the PP is okay, the first program contract will be approved, which will specify the funding and objectives of the public service function assigned to the Galician Radio-Television for a period of three years. This ensures control during the next legislation, where it will no longer rule. At a time when the Galician Television loses hearing, where the country loses spokespersons, where an image is worth more than a thousand words, where women's rights are reversed, the Government should seek not only political consensus, but also social consensus, to guarantee the public character of the entity, its plurality, the veracity and objectivity of information, the promotion of culture, linguistic normalization and gender equality. All amendments to the entire opposition were rejected. The Joint Group has been rejected by 113 amendments. The People's Party owns absolute truth, because the People's Party wants a Galician Radio-Television to be a copy of that franchise model of a television for a single, large and free Spain. Amendments that spoke – or spoke – of a Galician Radio-Television that represented society in its plurality, including spaces for the promotion of Galician culture, cinema, theatre, music, cartoons, for art, to make our history known, to educate in environmental values and human values. Amendments that talked about issuing a proper childhood programming, but also about programming for youth adapted to their interests and schedules. And also educate in the assessment of biodiversity, in relation to different sexual options, in the rejection of any kind of violence, in the condemnation of masculine violence, in the integration of dependent people. To also educate in health care, in the importance of balanced nutrition, in the promotion of sport at all ages, in the promotion of a healthy life. Amendments that were intended to establish stable folding teams. Today I wear a stick that says, "Without bending, we don't speak German." It is essential to have a stable folding team that guarantees the right use of the Greek on our television, while at the same time empowering the translation of all those broadcasts which, because they have a high quality, can be imported, but which must be translated or subtitled in the Greek language. Amendments aimed at making Galician Radio-Television an instrument of social cohesion between the rural and urban world, between the world of the sea, agriculture and industry. In short, all amendments that were intended for a Galician Radio-Television that represented all the Welsh and Welsh people were rejected. A plural Galician radio-television, which cannot be manipulated by the Government. A Galician radio and television that promotes and enhances history, culture, language or the environment; that is, it puts into force Galician. It is a pity that today the People's Party despises all the closer ties of opposition, which are just the reflection of the approaches of society, that society claims; of what society has participated and voted in the constitution of this Parliament calls for. Not only the voters of the People's Party, but all society. A number of amendments that came to enrich this text and guarantee a plural television; a television that brings our people closer to their history and culture; that explains and enhances what it is to be Welsh, what it is to be Galicia, what it is to be its potential; a television that cohesives our territory, totally dissive; a television that serves not only to entertain, but also to educate, to promote culture. We have from our cinematographic arts, to theaters, abandoned. There's no space for Greek literature. There are not spaces for social debate, where all political groups participate; not only those represented in this Parliament, but the whole political plurality of our country. And far less is there any program where there is union participation and where the problems of the working class are dealt with; debates between government, companies and trade unions about these labor problems that really concern the Greek society. Applications that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u96	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u97	...they value and gain the country and the cohesion of our country, in the identification of our country. To build on our culture. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you're wrong. I suppose all these negatives come because you think that putting value on Galicia is going against placing value on Spain. First think about Galicia. If Galicia goes well, it doesn't have to influence the concept of Spain, although for many of us Spain is an abstract, thank you, entity, where many cultures are incorporated that are not respected, and that's precisely why we are in the situation in which we are. So, they stop being afraid of their country, they stop being afraid of their identity, and they really go back, they recover dialogue, and we come to an agreement on the framework status of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u99	Good day to all and all. Of course, we are in this House today at a real party of democracy, aren't we? The People's Party is going... to say, the point of order of the day that I say debate and vote, of course, nothing looks like reality. The proposal for a framework mandate of the People's Party will be voted on, but it will certainly not be debated, because debate is to be able to counter opinions, to be entitled to reply and to be able to confront positions. And the People's Party, hiding in a regulation that he himself approved, will steal that ability to debate Galicia's leadership of public media ownership. Law 9/2011, the result of the bipartisan pact between PP and PSOE – obviously approved in 2011–, had it put in a drawer, failing all the deadlines set in it; that is, each and every one of the deadlines and contents included in this law. They've been hiding it for four years, and now they want in four days to do everything they've been failing to do over these four years. As I said, stealing debate, the minimum democratic functioning, the right to reply and the right to contrast; making it impossible to participate with guarantees from groups represented in this Parliament; but also stealing this ability to provide social or professional entities. I want to greet the members of the company committee who accompany us today from the rostrum. Thank you for the close visits that have been made to us and that the BNG has incorporated into its vast majority; just like the close ones that have moved us to the Bureau for linguistic normalization, social workers and audiovisual sectors, and that we have moved, first, to the amendments, which have not even been discussed – no longer accepted, even there has been debate on them – and that we have now kept in this particular vote that defends the BNG. We have denounced the illegality of the renewal of the Board of Directors without having approved the framework mandate before, without having elected this Parliament a new Director General and without having made the Government the programme contract. But the People's Party, far from rectification, what it does is to persist in that position. And now it will pass by imposition a framework mandate which, as I said, does not sit down to debate. The People's Party said: nothing to debate, we will accept absolutely nothing, with which - I insist - we will vote for a framework mandate, but not debate it. A framework mandate setting out the general objectives of the public service function to be performed by the corporation; that is, the strategic tool for setting the model for the next nine years! And it turns out that the strategic tool for establishing our country's public media model for the next nine years, the People's Party is running, in a hurry, without debate, without dialogue. For what? Well, to ensure political control, party control of the CRTVG by the People's Party, whether or not you have a majority vote, you have or not social support in the forthcoming elections. The BNG strongly denounces the scandal of the PP-PSOE pact to renew the board of directors. We did not vote in favour of Law 9/2011 because we were convinced that it was not the law that Galician public media needed, but the pact, which today brings here the People's Party, is already beyond all expectations that this law would favour the control of the shift government, because everything that has been done up to now, which will favour and allow, is not only the control of the government, but the control of the People's Party. A real scandal! Despite all the impediments and obstacles, the Nationalist Block of Wales has tabled 45 proposals for amendments which – I insist – are not going to be accepted, but have not even been debated. Proposals to modify the sexist language, sexist language that exists in this text, which the People's Party said was neither debated nor accepted. Proposals for considering Galician media as an essential public service. Because we believe that public communication and the media are an essential service, which is the one who, if not offered, puts at risk the same survival of a democratic and plural society. Proposals to ensure the independence and plurality of the public media, which bring you to the creation of the Professional Statute and the Style Manual and the creation of the Information Council, tools that allow professionals to develop their work without pressure, without guidelines, without manipulation. These two instruments contain the law, but the People's Party has not developed them. The Galician Nationalist Block has tabled non-law proposals for implementation, and the People's Party has voted against. We have tabled motions for resolutions so that both the Information Council and the creation of the Professional Statute can be launched and voted against. That's why in this particular vote we say it's done and with dates, by now, before the end of this year 2015. It seems essential to us. And let's talk to the professionals and make a deal with them. We also introduced the viewer's Valador figure. We believe it's important that the audience, the listeners, have the figure of that valet. We have introduced proposals to ensure technologically advanced public media, with sufficient resources, so that they do not have the excuse of continuing to resort to outsourcing, to continue to use the rental of services, when they have to have the public media at their disposal those technologically advanced media. Proposals to ensure that 70% of production is own production, and to make it very clear what is own production in this framework mandate. That there is no doubt that production itself is done with its own means, with its own resources, and that it does not allow the People's Party to continue to outsource issues that can be done with the resources of CRTVG itself. Proposals for transparency to be guaranteed, for the aid provided to the audiovisual sector from CRTVG to be based on the principles of transparency and equality, to end the opacity currently being practised. Proposals to guarantee freedom of expression and not pay attention to statutory constitutional values, as established by the People's Party in its proposal for a framework mandate. Proposals for Galician public media to play a key role in the visibility of the country, normalization and prestige of our language and culture. That there is a proactive role in supporting the development and empowerment of the Greek language and culture; that there is a commitment to the production of own cultural content; that there is promotion and support for folding. Proposals for a guarantee of spaces for debate, pluralism, analysis, and decent timetables at maximum hearing times. We also introduced proposals for ties with the Lusophony, especially with Portugal, to be carried out, which are not left in a role such as the Paz Andrade law, which is not developed. Let us not pursue a policy of turned back to what is the Lusophony and what is the relationship with Portugal. Proposals for a daily and permanent programming for children and boys. Proposals for a collection of groups between 15 and 40 years. Proposals, in short, for Galicia's television and public radio to play a key role in Galicia's presence in them. Proposals for the treatment of gender-based violence as a social problem of maximum magnitude. There is an active commitment to denounce and raise awareness of this very serious problem. In short, proposals for a framework mandate allowing a public radio and television in Galicia as a service to Galicia and as a right for the Greeks and the Greeks. And if the People's Party had some decency, what I'd have to correct. I'd have to rectify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u100	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u101	...and accept alternative proposals; I would have to accept the debate; I would have to accept proposals more than reasonable if we really want public media that are at the service of Galicia and that does not continue to happen as at present, that hearing quotas do not go down, that audience quotas have already fallen from that red line of two digits, which are already under 10%; if the People's Party really wanted large sectors of Greek society not to desert massively from them and to feel reflected in what is reported and in the contents of public radio and television. Because in this proposal for the People's Party's framework mandate the priority is to control, primarily the control of information, entertainment and sport. It's not culture's priority, it's not language's priority, it's not that the identity signs that we have as a people are a real priority. And I'm done saying that when the Nationalist Block in Wales didn't support Law 9/2011 in November of that year, it wasn't for whimsical. We said at that time that we couldn't support it because it didn't respond to the law of the public media that Galicia needed, that the law represented a threat to the future of the public media, and despite all that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u103	...they agreed, agreed and agreed to a law that did not meet those needs. Finished, Madam President. But time sets and takes away reasons. The BNG signaled the problem, and as I said on more occasions, when the wise man marks the moon, the fool looks at his finger. And you just wanted to look at your finger...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u104	Finish Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u105	...away from listening, and today we have the result. And the result, with the instruments of that law, what it does is that every time, every step they take, be for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u107	...public media from Galicia are crowded and controlled, not by the government of turn, but by the People's Party, whether or not it has a parliamentary majority or not. A real scandal!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u109	Good morning to all and to all. They're gonna allow me a discursive license. I would start this debate, where we talk about the future of the TVG, with a mythical phrase of the TVG in recognition of what is being discussed today and the risk that this mandate is supposed to be given to the Welsh doubling sector. I would begin by saying that mythical phrase of "You're drunk, J.R." because only an absolute majority drunk government, which confuses most absolute with absolutism, is capable of perpetuating this coup of state to the public. Today, the People's Party once again commits a coup d'état to the public, and it does so when we debate in a frenzied parliament, where, like other times, they make calls "see what you're going to do!" to certain groups even before the debate begins; and they are done in a frenzied parliament, on television and public radio, where professionals do not have freedom of expression, where dissent is pursued, where it is not possible to express themselves as each one simply wants because the People's Party wants public radio and television to be the body of expression of the People's Party and therefore a mechanism of mass manipulation used with public money from the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's why the People's Party these days, and today more than ever, defends legality as the only way out of the state. Defend legality when it matters. When it doesn't matter to you, the People's Party that defends legality doesn't do it to pay its bills, that does it in B; but it doesn't do it either to comply with its own rules. Galicia's media law is systematically violated by the People's Party itself, which is able, even during the Accompanying Act, to do something that is an aberration, a genuine aberration, to consolidate in its position, in a way at least unethical, the general director of the TVG. Yes, this general director who comes in this Parliament gradually to rape the neighbours and neighbours, to rape Parliament itself, to make his appearance an example of how this Parliament is being lied to. By the way, a director-general who, by the adoption of the law we have discussed a little while ago, is extended to his office and does not even have the decency to appear as an listener in this debate. Of course, for us this is tremendously serious, and therefore we cannot support this proposal for a debate which is put forward by a People's Party which also violates the rule on the need to reach a consensus. And this group denounced, and denounced it during the summer, that horrid bipartisan love, that horrid love that went from being hidden in the corners of Parliament talking about kisses in the Welsh House, to be able to consensual between bipartisanism the members of that new board of directors where a part of this society is not present; a good part of this society is not present. But those who have been able to have that awful love of summer now violate the norm to establish a public society of Galician television and radio which will mean a question: that you keep for nine years the possibility of making this mandate framework when you are going to be swept away by the Government when the next autonomous elections are. So we have to denounce this reality. It is not to be received that you have posed behind the continuity of a public television model that is an aberration; that manipulates information; that it is capable of trying to give a different view of the real reality of our society to the people of this country; that it instrumentalizes public messages as if they were messages from the People's Party, when they should be messages from the whole of Galician society, and therefore uses quite surprising manipulation mechanisms. Someone could explain how since fairness, transparency and plurality was given the information given last week about what happened in this plenary or in this Parliament, in which a person from the People's Party accused of giving and offering jobs for sex, and the Welsh public television did what he did, treated him as he treated him, even gave more room to those who blamed the victim than to the person accused of that aberration. That's the public medium. But since they mustn't be very happy about how they did it and how they did it today, it is impossible to play this video because it makes a playback error. How strange that those who may be worrying give reading errors! So you're a part of what threatens the Welsh public channel, because when you lose credibility because it's an expression organ of the political party that governs, our channel is at risk. That's why we can't agree that you don't accept a single of the 250 proposals that have made the set of opposition groups. What have we seen in this Parliament? Because it's impossible for the People's Party to understand that it's necessary for a part of the Galician society to be represented in how our audience will be distributed, as it will be done. How can this parliamentary majority impose a roller on something that must be transmitted to the whole of Galician society? And they even clearly violate their own law, which says among its principles that it must be plural, ideological, political, cultural, social. What plurality is there when a framework mandate will only be made by the majority group? That must defend the separation between information and opinion. Where is that on public television in Galicia?, where is information and opinion separated? How can it be that the opinionors -- by the way, of those who in many cases do not know the contracts they have, for example, those who are directors of written media in Madrid, we don't even know what kind of contract they have and how much they charge. How is it possible for you to put that in a law and then pass that on that side? We can't share it. We cannot share that they undermine objectivity, impartiality, even truth. Any director of a normal public -- I don't say extraordinary, I say normal -- would be expelled from his responsibility if he arrived at a camera saying that if they had to correct each time they were giving bad news or lying, they would have to do it every day. Where is the rectification right? Where is our right, for example, to groups that say we're not in a place when it turns out that we are, to that correction? How is it possible that this is said in that way and there is impunity, and that no one makes a decision? So, of course, you're looking for a public television and public radio model that has nothing to do with what this country needs, and that's why they ignored our proposals. A fundamental proposal: that it be considered a public service of general interest. Because a public service of general interest has guaranteed its reservation of public ownership. What do you want? What do you want when your CEO – if he comes to this Parliament to lie and deceive – says that the current chapter I is unsustainable? What does it mean that your leaders – in law fraud to continue as public officials – say that chapter I is unsustainable? If we ever had to make a job reform, we would have to do it within the People's Party, at least to expel all those who are close to political corruption, which unfortunately for this country are too many. Even some people have the provocation of – around the bills of Mayan Bee and the gifts of sacrifice – to come to talk about transparency here today in this Parliament. How can they not accept amendments, such as those proposed since the opposition, of incorporating deontological codes, in a new way of posing plurality? Because you, in your framework mandate, suggest that the reference to plurality will have to do with institutional representativeness. How is it possible for a public medium to believe that the news has to be around institutional representativeness? Is there no other society beyond the institution? That's the concept of democracy that the People's Party has. How could the People's Party not heed the need to create a briefing board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u111	...or to enter the valet of the listener or the spectator? There is only one explanation, that they want to continue to violate their rights; their right to be represented or to be attended, or even their right to receive truthful and plural information. How can you not accept the need for our public channel to produce more of its own production, and not continue with that own external production or directly externalization, which makes many of our workers separate from the management and external companies do the work our workers could do; by the way, in a cheaper way, how could it happen to the afternoon magazines? How could it be that you don't want to introduce the necessary reference to a stable budget account for our public channel? Of course, because you only need the public channel when it's useful for your political interests. So in the future of the public channel, there is a risk that when the People's Party considers it unnecessary for its political content or political needs, it will act by eliminating something that is fundamental, not only to our culture, not only to our language, but to our country. Galicia would not be the same without a worthy public channel. Unfortunately today is not worthy, and not because of their workers, but because of those who tell them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. The People's Party really makes a proposal against the Professional College of Journalists of Galicia, the Intercenter Committee, the folding associations, the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, against all this, because in particular – and I suppose the other groups too – the Socialist Party has taken absolutely all the initiatives that these groups have just named – and surely some more that escapes – made to the proposal that the People's Party presents. This proposal for a framework mandate is a twist to devalue Law 9/2011 at all. I have doubts that when a Parliament, the representatives of the people, passes a law and spends 4 years and does not comply with the law, and escapes from the law, and turns and turns and turns and does not comply with any precepts of the law, I have absolute doubts about the legality they comply with. So when the German Government violates the law, here's a problem. If this proposal is approved as it is, it is not guaranteed, of course, the independence or professionalism of the corporation, and, of course, it is not guaranteed its viability, which is perhaps what is hidden behind a series of proposals made by the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party: viability. Basically, the Socialist Party introduced 50 amendments, in which the People's Party, in a hurry and running and in two minutes, said, "I'm not interested in anything, not even those of genre, not even... nothing! I believe that the People's Party has not read the proposals with which the other groups want to collaborate for this framework mandate. There was simply a hurry, after four years in which there was no hurry to carry out anything that required the law. Long choices were made after election. The great press cabinet of the People's Party, which is CRTVG, has continued to exercise and work for the People's Party. And now, in a hurry and running, the lack of 4 plenarys, and we all know why, this takes all in a hurry. I just want to make a brief summary of the contributions, which I think are interesting, which I wanted to make the Socialist Party. In Article 4 it is obvious, of course, any kind of union representation that we specify there. In 8, in the general public service objectives, we talked about the standardizing role of language, the important role that language has to play, but it was never important for television or for the Government of the People's Party. Interestingly, we do not call ourselves homophobia, – not referring to this treatment within the media – xenophobia, racism, etc., but we do not see that the People's Party has had time to read it in its entirety either. Another series of aspects, such as the cohesion of rural, urban, etc. territory, that I will not tire them out of this. Article 12 is still not addressed unless the RTMG Corporation provides for the Professional Statute and the Information Council. Because, of course, there are framework mandates that can be very generalist and others that are most specified. From the perspective of the Socialist Party, and of course from the whole perspective of the collectives I mentioned, we believe it is interesting, important and fundamental to have an impact on these aspects, because the rest is a bunch of sirens, the rest is something generalist to be able to do what we want. By the way, the same thing that they did with Law 9/2011, they just picked up the absolutely generalist aspects and completely distorted the law. Therefore, we are proposing an article in which we request the Professional Statute of the RTMG Corporation to strengthen the quality, professionalism and independence of content. We also understand that it is essential to address the creation of the Information Council, to address the organization and operation. In Article 16, with regard to social and corporate responsibility, it is not addressed to apply or develop a deontological code, which we believe in the case of CRTVG, for the experience we have seen and for the allegations we make in the commission, almost always... that, by course, the director always has an impact on professionals, the fault is always from professionals, it is never from management and the management team, it is always the professionals who forget themselves, the ones who don't know. That's not the concept of the Socialist Party of the media professionals. We also believe that the viewer's Valador figure is fundamental. And then, in Article 31, there is another aspect that we consider vitally important, which is internal production. The first time a document is submitted by the People's Party, it is set at 60%, then at 55%, and finally, when it decides not to read a paper and approves it, it calculates the missing plenarys, and directly puts it at 50%. From the Socialist Party we understand it has to be 70%. Basically to ensure the viability of CRTVG, but above all to ensure that it is a public medium, to ensure that professionals who are in the media remain. In the financing model, we have suggested – and we have already done so in the committee – that it should be specified – and should be included in this framework mandate – the approach of the Union towards the next triennium, and it must be an amount not less than EUR 100 million. With regard to headquarters, we believe it is absolutely important to improve coverage throughout the territory, local disconnections in the main cities of Greece, as well as delegations in Madrid, Brussels, Bos Aires, Lisbon, and where necessary. There is one element that we consider essential, which is the transitional provision, in which we propose a replacement. I mean, you've talked all morning about this trap by the back door that you're trying to make the German Government so that at CRTVG you'll remain sine die, and whenever you provide a good service, the current director. We believe that the director's election must be before the framework mandate has been adopted. I am not going to extend this because I think it has been perfectly explained, both in committee and through the media. Of course, we also address generalist aspects of gender-based language and, above all, about the treatment of gender-based violence, but we see that all these aspects are not relevant to the Government of the People's Party. With regard to sexism, gender violence, harassment, and so on, I think it's full to deal with this issue and how the People's Party understands the harassment of women. I recently hear – because I am from Ourense – I do not want to tell the president about the issue that happened to the President of the Ourense Parliament, immediately see, the apple, Eva and Adam. I mean, "he didn't fall into sin." No, no, no, the President of the House of Ourenses, for active and passive, allegedly delinquent in the trial, but politically he has to leave the parliament, and he is the president of the People's Party – Mr Feijóo – what he has to say to him. In fact, the processing and travel of this mandate marks us as a joke, because, as I said at the outset, first if a law is passed, we have a law, but it's four years old and it's not done at any time in case of the law; so we're squeezing illegality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u114	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u115	But then we decided, in a hurry and running, to put the law in place. I think I've already explained why that rush is running. That's in a hurry and running it's because the German Government doesn't get to the communication office that every councilman, the vice president and the president, needs to have a macro communication office. So they're going to put in the necessary mechanisms so that that cabinet doesn't change the least. For the Socialist Party, fundamental aspects: financing, structure, own production, management and appointment of the Director General. Because look at one thing, they're still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u116	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u117	...–Friendly, Madam President – with which the production itself is not directly addressed, what will happen is that half of the staff... which seems to be what the People's Party wants. He's really walking towards it. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause]] Let's vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas. People's Group. Mr. Baamnde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Greetings also to the people who accompany us from the guest stage. I want to start with a reference that looks strange but that's not. That famous discourse by Nikita Khrushchev, in 1964, before the United Nations Assembly, when he said that of: Nein, Nein, Nein, Nein. Well, I have to say here too: no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] I'm starting, not first. We're not afraid of losing the elections, as much as the opposition voices insist on repeating it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And, by the way, listen to these names: Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi – are the least twelve prophets – Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel – are the four greatest. None of you are among those prophets, and therefore I do not recognize them with any ability to predict the electoral outcome, rather divine; and the credit they deserve will be that of the Recalls of turn. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, there is no kidnapping of the debate, quite the contrary. What happens – and here, after listening to the opposition's voices and voices, was perfectly clear – is that you have little to debate because you have no alternative television project to oppose the framework mandate that we present. [[Murmurs.]] The only thing they talk about is timely and concrete issues, they repeat the topics of every day of every television commission. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, Mr. Fajardo, the mythical phrase of television is not what you say, the mythical phrase is "Sue Ellen, you're drunk," and it's JR who pronounces it, not vice versa. [[Murmurs.]] I imagine that attitude of your appreciation will be more or less the same as you say in these matters. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, you see, there's no scandal, there's no scandal... [[Interruptions.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u121	...the only thing there is is the scandal that you want to mount to hide your shortcomings in this timely and concrete question. So, to put the debate on its point, let us remember that when Alberto Núñez Feijóo arrived at the Government of Galician Union, he inherited an absolutely ruined television, sectarian television and spousal television, which was the daughter of an unfulfilled promise by the Government of Bipartisan Change and Reform. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Interruptions.]] And that change and reform if they had to be made by the People's Party... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u123	...which approved Law 9/2011, of the media, precisely to turn television towards a public, independent and plural television project. And precisely within this plurality criterion which the law deals with through the framework mandate and the programme contract is why we are discussing today the proposal for a framework mandate. By the way, the opposition complains, and I don't see that he's right; but, as I said before, he complains to hide his shortcomings. Now they say we're in a hurry to set up the framework mandate. It turns out they carry all the legislation insisting on the need to develop the law and to rush the process of transformation. Now that this process is speeding up and entering a cruise speed, it turns out you're complaining that we're too fast and that we're walking very fast. No, we do what we have to do, which is to develop the television project, and you look like you're a dope sticker and that the pace shift takes them completely naked. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They also complain that they did not have time to present an alternative text. You know, but you know perfectly well that the terms of reference were earlier than you had to come to Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] They know that since July, our proposal for a framework mandate has been registered, that we've been discussing the framework mandate for two months, and now they complain that they haven't had time to prepare... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u124	Quiet, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u125	...an alternative text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u126	Mrs. Prado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u127	Look at you... [[Murmurs.]] No, yes, but this is just like the complaints they make about this issue, that they kind of remember Gila's sketch -- you remember it well -- "Hey, is this the enemy? And what time did they attack? Five o'clock. Man!, at five o'clock, we're sleeping the nap." I don't think you're sleeping in the sixth grade, but it's true that the framed mandate proposal has taken them completely in Ursay. [[Laughter]] And, listen, the opposition must be alert and alert-eyed, because when you have to warn of what's foreseeable it's going to happen, then we're wrong to deal with those issues. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They also complain about the lack of consensus. You see, the law seeks consensus and even necessarily imposes consensus. [[Murmurs.]] What's going on is that law says how consensus has to be, which has to be through most qualified; what doesn't say law is when consensus has to be reached. There was a time when we reached partial consensus with the Socialist Party on the Governing Council and on other matters, not now. But the law does not say it is when the consensus is over, and that logically depends on parliamentary activity. He says the old saying that two don't reign if one doesn't want to, but to achieve consensus it takes the concordant will on all sides; and his concordant will at the moment doesn't appear anywhere. [[Murmurs.]] It's more, look, I think sometimes you confuse consensus with unanimity. There is only one thing in which you do have full and absolute agreement and consensus, which is to oppose the People's Party. In that they seem like James Bond and Doctor No; they are fully in agreement with the People's Party. But when they have to come up with an alternative, they're incapable of doing it, completely incapable, because they don't even agree with themselves. [[Murmurs.]] So here's the case of the Lugo Deputy, there's those electoral alternatives that they want to introduce, there's that internal division between you and yourselves. So it's very difficult to debate an issue with which you can't even agree with yourself. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the draft framework mandate we're presenting is a strategic project, in every way. [[Murmurs.]] I have already told you at the committee meeting that the framework mandate can, in fact, use an amplitude criterion or a more concrete criterion. In line with what most European television sets out, in the same line also followed by the 2007 Radio-Television framework mandate, here it is opted for a wide-ranging... framework mandate criterion... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u128	Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u129	...to understand that the framework mandate must collect the general principles of the public service function, leaving for the contract the development and concrete determination of those principles in their practical application. And in this sense, I say it constitutes a strategic plan because it determines the general objectives of the public function, ensuring diverse and balanced programming, establishes the programmatic goals of the public service function, looking for quality programming, determines the strategic lines of content – emission and production – and at the same time determines the financing system. To this framework mandate, you present your own votes, which include the amendments tabled to the People's Party project. There is no scandal or pre-eminence or undervalue, but exercise of coherence in our posture. We cannot accept the amendments that have been tabled, nor do we accept what they now turn into a particular vote, because those approaches actually do not reflect an alternative television project, they do not reflect a different model of television; the only one that reflects are concrete positions on specific situations, which in some cases cannot be accepted because they are already collected elsewhere in the framework mandate itself. Mrs. Quintas, when you talk about reading, I recommend that you accept the same proposal you make in that regard. For example, you spoke here about a code of gender violence, but you've already approved it on TV, and with the Socialist Group's vote, Mrs. Quintas. Others of these amendments are impossible to accept because they clash with legality, even something they have talked about here, as is the entry into force of the framework mandate regulated in the law itself. Also subject to the approval of the term framework the election of the director, which requires a change of law that cannot be done through the framework mandate. Or Parliament's approval of the programme contract, which cannot be done because that competence falls within the competence of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors. In other cases, these concrete proposals cannot be accepted because they are nothing but matters that have to be included in the program contract, which is specifically determined by law. There are some who are not actually included in the framework mandate, but which, logically, must be studied elsewhere, such as the deontological code and the viewer's valet. If the information board is legally scheduled, which corresponds to its approval by the board of directors, hearing the union representation. That's why we can't approve these particular vows that you put forward because they would be a strange mix...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u130	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u131	...an unrecognizable text for all, a hybrid and confusing text that would distort the nature of the framework mandate and, logically, would make it a text that would not benefit us and would not be worth it to you. In short, we do not approve because they have no project, because we cannot pretend to turn Parliament into a director of programming. And as for those recommendations that they make to us about television and their credibility, apart from what they did to the Bipartite, I remind them of those verses of the Archprist of Hita...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u133	..."I know many priests who in their preaching despise money and also their temptations; but at the end of the money they grant forgiveness, absolve fastings and offer prayers." I mean, those who get up to the pulpit say one thing, they go down to the ground and they do another. [[Laughter]] Like you guys, when they're in opposition they say one thing and then, when they get to the government, they do another. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u135	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u136	Let's move on to the vote. We begin with the vote on the individual votes of the various parliamentary groups, for which most of them are required. We begin with the particular vote by the Joint Parliamentary Group, document No. 43083. Vote of the G.P. Joint (document No. 43083) to the proposal for a framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation S.A., adopted by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u137	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego, document No. 43103. Vote of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (document number 43103) to the proposed framework mandate of the Corporation Radio and Television of Galicia S.A., approved by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u138	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative, document No. 43105. Vote of the G.P. of the Alternative Galicia de Left (document number 43105) to the proposal for a framework mandate of the Corporation Radio and Television de Galicia S.A., approved by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u139	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's particular vote, document No. 43104. Vote of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (document No. 43104) to the proposed framework mandate of the Corporation Radio and Television of Galicia S.A., approved by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u140	Having rejected the particular votes of the parliamentary groups, the proposal for a framework mandate shall be voted on. We therefore vote on the proposal for a framework mandate. Voting of the proposed framework mandate of the Corporation Radio and Television de Galicia S.A., approved by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 33.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u141	If you do not obtain the majority of two thirds, in accordance with the fourth standard of the rules governing this procedure, your inclusion will be made on the agenda of a next plenary session for a new vote, which will require the majority of three fifths. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4:30, the sixteen-hundred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u142	Let's restart the session with point 3 of full appearances. Opinion of the Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u143	You have the floor, for your first intervention, Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this meeting is to give them an overview of the fundamental lines that will guide the work of the Social Policy Council. The goal is nothing other than to contribute to the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. After years of restrictions, arising from the serious economic crisis that has its origin in 2008, a new stage is now opened, with budgets increasing throughout the Union of Galicia, but particularly increasing for social policy. It's about taking this recovery from the public accounts to the Greek homes. We therefore want the 2016 budget to be closer to people and families with less resources, who most need the support of the Administration. That they serve to support more parents and mothers who decide to take the step of having a child; that they serve to care more and with better services the dependents and our older ones; that they serve to be with the people for whom recovery has not yet come and who have seen their quality of life diminish, because of the crisis, in recent years. In short, the priority that will continue to mark the performance of this board and of the government as a whole is people; a commitment to citizens and citizens who, as the administration does, are sealed with more budgetary resources. That's why the biggest budget margin we will have in 2016 is taken advantage of to give a new social impulse. From then on, the budget of the Social Policy Council goes up to more than 12 points, up to EUR 618 million; a budgetary reinforcement that will have a positive impact on each and every area of action in this autonomic department. So with regard to the previous exercise, support for children, family and conciliation will increase by almost 40%, up to EUR 97 million. Support for social inclusion will amount to 86 million euros, which means a 24% increase by 2016. Dependency support will reach EUR 324 million, i.e. EUR 26 million more than there was this year. Support for youth, participation and volunteering programmes will increase by 15%, reaching almost 10 million euros. We aspire, ladies and gentlemen, to make Galicia a better place to live and to form a family. We want to compensate for the efforts of many parents and mothers by giving them more facilities and support. We will be a sensitive administration, sensitive to the needs of families, and we will focus much of our efforts on supporting the development of the children of this country. This commitment must be reflected in the budgets, in the budgets of the family, children and conciliation area, which, as I said before, rise by 40% for next year, up to over EUR 97 million. In just six years, the Galician Union will have multiplied the economic allocation for families by two. We led this budgetary reinforcement to articulate new services, programs and aids, with which we intend to make Galicia a better place to have children, but above all a better place to be a child or to be a child. We refer to the most advanced countries with the greatest potential for the development of demographic policies, such as Finland, Sweden and Norway. Thus, based on experiences that are working in these countries, towards 2016 we will establish the following strategic lines. [[Murmurs.]] The good conciliation. We will extend this economic aid to parents and mothers who want to take their children to a child's school and don't have places in shelters right now with public funds. In the 2016 budgets there is an economic departure of EUR 3.4 million, which will allow the granting of 2,600 reconciliation bonds, which amounts to 1,400 new squares, which we will incorporate into all the squares currently financed by public funds. So it will be 1,400 new families of Greeks and Greeks who will have a public remedy for conciliation. [[Murmurs.]] The second program is the rural care bonus. We will enable an account of EUR 3 million to support families with children living in rural areas, who also have the right to have a reconciliation resource in their environment. We continue to move forward in the design of new reconciliation resources in personal, family and work life in rural Galician, another government strategic line. That's why it's going to give priority to municipalities where there's no offering of children's school squares. With good care in the countryside, we will also develop the children's homes, thus reaching a population of 0 to 12 years. With regard to the latter programme, four training courses are currently under way in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. In addition to fostering reconciliation, and according to the line of the countries that previously reported, on the basis of the competences of the Galician Union, we will contribute to meeting the basic costs of the birth of a child by direct assistance of EUR 100 per month for the first year for each child and child born from 1 January 2016. This help will be to cover food costs, child hygiene, clothing and other necessities. For this purpose we have qualified in the budgets 9 million euros in 2016. And we want to continue this programme in the next few years, as you can verify in the order that we will approve this year and that it will come into force on January 1st, according to what was announced on your day in this House. These tips will be established according to family income per capita, as you can also check in the order you regulate them. And I also want to tell you in this House that in this order, monomantal and single-parent families will have a special consideration, estimating that they will benefit a minimum of 8 out of every 10 Greek families. That is, if we make an extrapolation of 84% of the children who were born last year in Galicia, we would be talking about 16,000 families that will benefit next year from this measure. In sum, in 2016 EUR 15.4 million will be allocated to new measures to support the family, children and conciliation. Our intention is that these amounts increase over the next few years, which increase to maintain a serious demographic policy and a stable demographic policy, according to what happens in countries with more experience in this type of initiatives and where they have shown their effectiveness. [[Applause]] I also reiterate this adviser's offer to the proposals of the parliamentary groups to be able to enrich these measures. We all represent the Greeks and the Greeks, and therefore all will be taken into account. In addition, we are working with other institutions to enrich these measures with other initiatives in all areas where it has to be a comprehensive support plan. Finally, within these policies of family and conciliation, we will continue to expand the number of squares in child-supported schools with public funds. In the coming year, 500 new concerted squares; therefore, 500 families who will benefit from this indispensable remedy of conciliation. Today Galicia has a coverage of more than 33%, which, as you well know, is the established ratio of school squares in the European Union. We must be aware that for the first time social inclusion reaches a range of its own general direction and therefore is constituted as a measurable range of expenditure, as well as that it increases by more than 24% the budgetary shares for social inclusion in Galicia. We know it's not the definitive solution to eradicate social exclusion, but 24% of social inclusion resources will, of course, make it possible to take a very important step to pursue a path, the path of supporting people at risk or in situations of social exclusion. Because devoting more resources to families most hit by the crisis and those who need it most is an obligation for any government that has a minimum sensitivity and a minimum responsibility. Our goal is that no citizen will be left behind on this path. We have raised the budget of social inclusion to EUR 86.5 million with the aim – I say – of reaching more Greek and Greek people who are close to a situation of social exclusion or who are directly in a situation of social exclusion. This is a goal we must face among us all. We are faced with a task in which we all have to add, all public administrations, the Galician Union, the deputies, the councils and the social entities. So, and following this line of action and collaboration, we practically multiply by two the budget of the order of entities, of entities that work with people at risk of social exclusion. Entities to which we have to thank that for many years they have reached places where public administrations have not arrived. The best way, of course, to give them back that job is to double the order of help that the Autonomic Administration has with all of them. [[Applause]] He spoke before the Town Councils, and that's why we're going to double the order for the Town Councils, because the Town Councils are fundamental to having more efficient social coverage in this area. Social services, for any Welshman or for any galley who is suffering from it are not the social services of the Galician Union or the social services of a municipality, they are the social services of the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's why the financial allocation for 2016 will go from 1.7 million euros to 3.4 million euros. Galicia now has an income of social inclusion, Risga; this is the only income we have in our community, from there the importance of reaching out to all the people who truly need it to meet their basic needs. For the year 2016, the credit initially allocated for the risk is EUR 52.7 million, EUR 5 million more than it was in the current year. The will is to speed up the processing deadlines, so that the Welsh and Welsh people who are entitled to this income will receive as soon as possible without undue delay from the Galician Union. In these weeks we are shaping the social plan's development measures against economic inequality. For this plan, the budgets of the Social Policy Council amount to EUR 10 million, EUR 20 million in the Galician Union. We will continue with the development of the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy 2014-2020, with more than three hundred actions of this and other advisories, of which I would like to highlight the expansion in 2016 of the electric ticket, a family-led help line to prevent electrical supply cuts by default or delay; the purchase of school material, with a new help of 50 euros for primary and secondary students; the Reconduce programme, which since its launch in 2013 has served 350 families who were at a certain risk of losing their usual housing; and the promotion of the rental bonus, for families at risk of eviction from their homes. Even so, we maintain resources to supplement non-contributory pensions, EUR 9.5 million. And Galicia is doing this along with two other autonomous communities throughout the state, which are Extreme and Andalusia, the only three autonomous communities that maintain this complement. The priority, ladies and gentlemen, of the Social Policy Council is to focus on commitment to people and families who have the most difficulties, and that is why more resources are needed, and so the budgets of the area of social inclusion increase by 20%, 20% more resources to have a greater commitment to people who are in situations or at risk of social exclusion. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, also to strengthen the commitment to the well-being of older people and people with functional diversity, priority groups for the Union of Galicia. The joint social and political responsibility that we have as public representatives forces us to reaffirm our commitment to improving the quality of life of those who already find themselves in a dependency situation. Galicia registers 40,000 registered dependents today. This is supposed to count on the help they need about two-thirds, 60% of the population with some degree of dependence. But where we have to pretend and focus all our efforts, it's 40% of the people, and therefore of the families, who, having recognized this situation, cannot access our programs. In this sense, we have expressed in the House the objective for the next exercise, which is to expand into 10,000 people who are included in the system and to move from a coverage of 60% to a coverage of 75%, the largest expansion planned in recent years. To make it possible, the economic departure for publicly funded markets will be above EUR 113 million, EUR 46 million more than in 2009. We're going to go over 5,700 yards in teleassisted service. We're going to get economical closer to the home aid service, to get to 500 more people. And as far as it goes to people with diversity, we'll act in several axes. First, we will improve coordination and collaboration with the associations and entities that work in this area. To that end, we increased, with the consensus reached with the entities of functional diversity and disability in Galicia a few days ago, a budgetary agreement for the financing of their costs, with a 20% increase over the previous year, from 3 million euros to 3.6 million euros; hence a budget increase of 600,000 euros. Secondly, for the first time, we will launch new lines of support for the financing of the operational programmes of the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund 2014-2020, a real priority for the use of European resources in the social field. In this line, it is about promoting research, innovation and improvement of social services by introducing innovative models of intervention in the face of the demographic challenge and the ageing of our population. A roadmap in this area that comes from the joint work of the Administration, the associative movement – as I told you before – and the professionals. This strategy includes more than four hundred actions to be developed in terms of accessibility, promotion of personal autonomy, education, training, employment, health and social services, according to the Galician Strategy of Disability 2015-2020, approved a few days ago by the Council of Galicia. Fourthly, we currently have a recruitment procedure for self-government services of more than 8,600 hours a year for intellectual disability, and we also work on the increase of one hundred new residential and day-care services for the different groups of disabilities, especially intellectual disability and autism, where demand is growing remarkably. On the other hand, it is intended in this way to respond to the future and most imminent demand of users who end the education system and can be integrated into the social services system. Listening is the first thing I've done with all intensity in these four weeks, and what I'm going to do every day. Listening to and visiting centers, visiting entities, talking to users, hearing to be in reality of the problems, building with interested new policies, which is what we are required by the Greeks and the Greeks, and also listening to to change between all reasonable criteria. I want to transfer this advisor's intention to reduce the coke to the people affected by Alzheimer's and those who suffer brain damage in day-to-day centers. We're working so that this decrease can be effective next year for average income, in line with the Plan against Economic Inequality. As far as our elders are concerned, it's in the prevention and early detection of dependence and in the promotion of personal autonomy where we have keys so that they can enjoy a healthier and more independent life. It's not only that our older people live longer, but that they live with a higher quality of life. In 2016 we will continue to strengthen our commitment for the well-being of older people and their families, so that we will continue to do the active aging and the promotion of healthy lifestyles two priority areas of action, as reflected in the 2016-2020 Major Strategy, which we will adopt next year. In addition, Galicia has been relying on the 2020 Horizon Prevention Strategy since 2012. As we develop this strategy, we will continue to advance in the creation of new services, both of daily care in the area of the alzheimer collective and residential services; in particular, we are talking about 130 new squares. Ladies and gentlemen, the range of action of the Social Policy Council includes the entire population of Galicia. Our policies are also focused on youth. Our boys and girls are the future of our economy, the vehicle of our culture and the hope of our demography, because they will also be the parents of our grandchildren. They are therefore our main asset. The strong financial crisis that we have seen condemned in recent years has prevented this administration from announcing large budget increases in youth, it is true, but at this time we can say that next year the budget of the Youth, Participation and Volunteer General Directorate will increase by 15% compared to 2015. Economic resources have five key areas of action. First, help to local entities for youth information office projects, 610,000 euros. Second, investment in youth participation, through the Youth Initiative program, 550,000 euros. Aid for the promotion of volunteering, EUR 520,000. Transnational mobility programmes, EUR 2.1 million. And the summer campaign, 2.3 million euros. I would also like to highlight the importance of the Glaga Network of Youth Dynamization, the programme Designing your future and collaboration with the Galicia-Europe Foundation within the framework of European policies and for the development and dissemination of various programmes for youth. But the youth policy of the Galician Union is not restricted nor can it be restricted to this council. Thus, as you well know, in 2012 it was approved the first Youth Law in Galicia's history and in July last year the Council of the Union gave green light to the Strategic Plan of Galicia's Youth 2014-2016. Here we find the strategic lines of this council for next year. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude because these lines respond to the Government's priority objective: to bring the recovery of public accounts to the homes of the Greeks, with new direct aids and with more and better services. We want people and families to recover the levels of life they had before the crisis that began in 2008 and that still involves many worries and restrictions for the people of this country. Today, more than ever, we have to be with those people, those people who have seen their quality of life diminished. So we're going to increase the overall budget of this board by 12 and a half points, up to 618 million euros. In short, next year we will have more resources, more resources to support those who need it most, more resources, but more ideas, more dreams and more illusions to invest in an important way the 618 million euros that the Greeks and the Greeks put into our hands to respond better to the worse people that are going through, in order to be able to better care for families who have so much helped to get out of an economic crisis that hit us very hard. I really look forward to this House's contribution to, among all, getting the strategic social policy lines to be the strategic lines of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u145	Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counselor, I hope you're willing to listen to what we all have to say. That's why I'm going to talk, because, even if it doesn't include us, women also participate. Well, you just told us here, as you might say, a milonga, that's fine, but in addition, saying that the Government will follow the same line of sensible administration and support for the most disadvantaged, the older, the birth, the children and the children. And I'm telling you, if you're going to continue with the same sensitivity policy, it's better if you change because the sensitivity you've had so far hasn't looked anywhere. From the help of those who speak best, this seemed to be an exhibition of bonds, everything is based on bonds, in that existentialist policy, – I don't know – almost Christian, instead of making a policy of real support to people and predicting and not allowing them to reach the situation of social exclusion. You don't: consent, legislate so you can get to the situation that many families come to, with an incredible loss of employment, or a practically free dismissal, and when you're in a situation you can't get out of, then you go with your bonuses and your help of shame. But that's when he talks about youth. When it comes to youth, it doesn't talk about any emigration, but it does talk about transnational mobility. That's their policy: to send our boys and girls out of our country. That's his policy. But in addition, I would like later in the next intervention to really tell me how much the budget increases, because it said 24%, said 20%, said 17%. You agree and tell us how much budgeting is really going to increase. We start with multiple deficiencies in social services, which have already been dealt with in this House and which have been the subject of actions by the People's Valedor, which says that the most vulnerable people are abandoned by the Administration and cared for by social organizations, and recommends that the Administration take into account the requests made by citizens, because citizens receive a number of help that they do not ask for, they do not need, and deny them what they really ask for and need. In the priority of the services in the catalogue in front of the books, I agree. The normal thing is to give social services and not to bet on the book for care, but for that there has to be those services. You just don't give them, and then you don't give them books for care either. From the objectives of the home aid, which were in principle already defined, none is met. There's no bet on why people stay in the family's bosom, why they keep a social life, why they integrate, why they have an active life. No, those help that you give is useless, it's useful to cover up the misery that you consent to. For families, of course, it's a minimal help, like the baby check. But do you really think someone's gonna have a son for 1,000 euros in a year? Do you really believe that? It's just that it's a real coat of hair, it's an insult to the intelligence of our people, eh! that's what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u147	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u148	But it also says the People's Valator that complaints for the impossibility of access to aid do not stop happening and increase, and makes a recommendation, that, as long as it has been proven that it is impossible to access these benefits when they are claimed and that it is impossible to know the reasons why they are denied, tell the board that they have to argue why they are denied so that people can defend themselves. That's why you use administrative silence as a negative, not to give explanations, and the truth is, you don't have staff to meet the social demand of these cuts. Therefore, all propaganda, because they're not going to set the means for people to access these aids. According to Valador, one of the most obvious deficiencies in the dependency system that relieves users and their families is the lack of adaptation of services and services to their needs, especially when it comes to large dependents. So they don't respond to what they're asked to do, they just make ads and big headlines. He concludes that the Valador is increasingly the people who denounce that a minimum portion of the continued assistance that is needed and does not value the permanence of the non-professional caregiver, that in many cases he has had to give up the working alternatives of his life and that he will also see how this situation will affect his future; they are mostly women over 50 years old, condemned by the Greek administration to be caretakers, without wages and without rights, with which we will find ourselves and we will continue to meet with poorer women; poverty has a woman's face, and that is because of their policies. In rural areas, where much of Galicia's older population lives, the shortage of social services is inappropriate in a European Union country. The home aid service reaches a few people, mostly it's not daily, and home rehabilitation services are non-existent, and anecdotal day centers, we don't talk about ADO, which only almost reaches the big towns. In an act with older people in Boiro you yourself spoke of the importance of avoiding unwanted dependency situations through prevention, and advanced the Regional Plan of Older People, which is being developed. And I wonder what preventive measures you've been thinking about, because here in prevention you haven't spoken for anything, not a single preventive measure. He also announced the creation of a new General Directorate of Majors and Persons with Disabilities, wanting to match older people and disabilities, when I understand that they require different policies and different solutions. He also announced a few days ago the establishment of individual aid for the acquisition of promotion services for personal autonomy and complementary services for assistance to persons with disabilities. I'd like you to give me more information about this and to stop propagandistic bonds. As for Risga, really, who comes here to talk about the triumphalism of Risga, it seems to me to be a real scandal. Risga, which accumulates delays of up to a year, for example in the city of Vigo, a year's delay. Do you think about how those people have been living for a year?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u149	Quiet, please, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u150	Don't be angry, if you're angry you have to be the people who are asking for Risk, because of their ineffectiveness, inefficiencies and indecency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u151	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u152	Increasing timeouts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u153	See if I'm gonna call you, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, calm down, calm down. That's why equality, tranquility. Continue, Mrs. Martínez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u154	Thank you, Madam President. This time increase is reached to one year, when the top is set in three years. The rise in poverty in recent years is alarming, and neither the Union nor the municipalities have the means to deal with it, and they are overwhelmed by this situation. Workers and workers of the Pontevedra Provincial Delegation publicly recognized that until there is no discharge in the Risk, you can't get a discharge; therefore, you lie. And this confirms that the budget increase for Risk is insufficient to meet the growing demand, and also confirms that the low economic recovery reduces to the recovery of the financial sector and large capital, while the majority of society continues to sink into poverty and social exclusion. I'm done with time, there's a lot to talk about this situation, but I don't want to end up without stressing your responsibility for the situation of juvenile boarding centers, where the rights of the child are not defended, where the integration of the child is not sought, where there is no future for the child. It's alarming, the reports of the People's Valedor are a scandal of lack of action by the Galician Union. But also in all rights referred to women who are victims of gender-based violence. It's all right about those policies that treat women like women are the problem. And the woman has to leave her home because she's not who the Administration is to throw out the batterer and protect the woman and her children. So you have to take a look at how you're acting, but obviously nothing appears. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u155	Yes, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u156	...even though I thank the president for the extra time. I also want – and I really end – to make reference to the lack of measures to ensure a healthy diet, to guarantee housing for all people who do not have, to guarantee the right to energy, to guarantee the right to water. I'm so sorry for your intervention. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u158	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. In fact, you arrive to the plenary at your first meeting to repeat to us much of what was the debate on budgets in the Committee on Economic Affairs. He starts talking about demography, about programs that are supposed to be the star of his advisor's office, as he changes his name: good conciliation, good care in rural areas, and a baby's check. That's what he's saying. Good conciliation, 1,400 private squares, it doesn't talk about creating public squares, 3 million for nesting houses. Look, Counselor, we've already heard Mrs. Mato talk about the children's houses enough; when they have one, when it's working, we talk about what they want to do in the countryside with the children's houses. What are you talking about? You've eliminated the madhouses in rural areas, eliminated pediatrics, and now you're talking about the nesting houses. But please, let's talk about the baby check. In the Committee on Economics I told you about the baby check just the criticism Mr. Feijóo made of Zapatero about the baby check but in four. And I keep it. Look, just for a little reflection. According to the Federation of Users and Consumers, expenditure of a child or daughter: the first month, between EUR 1,900 and 2,500; the first year, over 6,000; in the first 18 years of life, over EUR 100,000. The situation we can find in Europe. Germany: dependent child benefit, between the first and the second child, 184 euros/month, does not depend on the level of income. Denmark, which you mentioned, all under 18 years of age, from 0 to 2 years, 190 euros; from 3 to 6 years, 150 euros/month; from 7 to 17 years, 118; maximum benefit, 4,692 euros. General family allowance, 54 plus, if it is disability or a single-parent family; 55 euros/month, regardless of the number of children for orphans. Switzerland, up to 16 years old, 25 studies are conducted, 163 euros/month. Norway, up to 18 years, 125 euros/month. Sweden, up to 16 years old, 115 euros without income limits; 16 years old until completion of schooling, 115 euros are also maintained. We'd follow. There are many family plugins. Austria, also very similar to the previous one, between 105 euros depending on and increasing if it's a large family. France – as you also know –, birth benefit, EUR 916, single payment, for families with incomes of less than EUR 34,000, increases second and third children. Finland, the same, EUR 150 per month, increases if it is a second child or the third child. United Kingdom, we also have 88 euros a month and is increasing by the number of children. Belgium, the Netherlands, Cyprus, Iceland... and we reach the Spanish state, which is in the queue of child and child support. If you took the model of that, from Denmark, Sweden and Norway, well reduced, for a year, an election year, and only for those born that year, for now. But, in addition, allow me, Mr Counsellor, to remind you of the situation, since we are talking about aid, of what is the true non-conciliation rather than co-responsibility. Look, Sweden, 55 to 68 weeks of maternity leave. Bulgaria, 58. Norway, 47. Denmark, 44. United Kingdom, 39. Czech Republic, 28. Ireland, 26. Hungary, 24. Finland, 21 weeks. Poland, 20. Estonia, 20. Italy, 20. Lithuania, 18. Cyprus, 18. Romania, 18. Greece, 17. France, 16. Austria, 16. Netherlands, 16. Spanish State, 16 weeks of maternity leave. Well, from behind there are, indeed, Belgium, Malta, Germany, Switzerland, Iceland and Portugal; we are going to be fair and read exactly what the situation with regard to maternity leave is. In this case, as you know, in the Spanish state at least six weeks after birth for the mother. In fact, if you look at the statistics, only 1.8 percent of the parents took paternity leave, which is incompatible with maternity, which goes beyond 15 days, after 6 weeks. That's our reality, there's no kind of co-responsibility in the first few months. And you tell us that the big help is a baby check that will reach 16,000 families for maintenance expenses, has now expanded to clothing and other care. It's absolutely shallow, it's as good... as advertising ads; and those families that arrive to them are sure it's a help. But the European map of the countries you have spoken about both in committee and today is completely radical. There are maternity and paternity permits, there are work surpluses that allow mothers to be re-entered into work. Because you've spoken exclusively of parents, but the important thing here is also to talk about mothers, who are the ones who have difficulties and who are trapped in the whole development of their working life. Of public services, we are talking more and more about the good conciliation and for nothing of the radical problem, which is that there are no maternity and paternity permits equal to the countries you have spoken about. While there are no maternity and paternity permits, public services, aids are merely witnesses, as you were, by the way, telling other governments that they have also taken out of the check to make demographic policies. But that's not just Galicia's problem. It's just, look, a headline today: "Every day we're going to work for another 76 Greeks community, the highest of the last seven years. The number of college graduates who do double what they're going to do." That's the reality of the country. Not only the low birth rate, but the forced emigration of most young people and girls and workers and workers in this country. That forced emigration but low birthhood is absolutely lethal, that's not arranged with children's houses or with good conciliations, not even with the propaganda of the baby check, it's absolutely impossible. Either there's real economic recovery, or there's a demographic plan or it doesn't matter, because you're putting a pretty small patch in which it's a break at this moment of decommunal size. That's about the scope of demography, because I'm also very short of time. But about the scope of inclusion? Look, Risga's still waiting and deadlines are not met. It is true that some delegations have improved deadlines, but they remain far above the law. And a very specific question: when will the regulation of the Act of Inclusion be introduced, what do all the social workers in this country really ask for? When? Today you're engaged, please, with a date. Another topic with regard to dependency. Look, it's just that the problems are the strawberries, but it's just that the strawberries you put them on, you put them on to Mrs. Mato, yes, yes, yes, yes, with the service wallet. You've put the shipments with the service wallet. Explain here why dependents who have a higher degree of dependency pay more than those who have a lower degree, and what it means and how many have to leave residences at the moment. And then a great forgetfulness, Counselor. He's here and he's not talking about the welfare agency. He's not talking about the fiasco you're doing with the Consortium. Ask the Consortium manager how many months have been delayed in payment to the suppliers, how many accumulated bills they have in the Consortium for that attempt to transfer it to the Agency, how many small suppliers are waiting for it to be paid. And look, after we've just seen how the state approves a law of legal regime in the public sector where it bets on by consortia and says that the model of agency does not speed up transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u159	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u160	...how could you possibly eliminate a consortium – although still present in the budgets – simply by political sectarianism, because you don't want to listen to mayors and mayors? Counsellor, you've been mayor, will you sit with the mayors, with the mayors, and finally return to the Consortium's consensus? Or will you go ahead with that agency that eliminates the municipalities, which at the moment has real problems in order to be able to join the municipalities and that - as we have well seen by the last law published by the State - is a model already exceeded? In the Law of Social Services Agency was thought to be a planner, not a service manager, and the Consortium allowed the municipalities to participate in the management of these services and also to have their governing bodies voiced. I want you to answer us here today, because many mayors and mayors are waiting for you to answer what your social services management model is going to be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u162	And by the way, don't forget: the V Convention, the public residences, the situation in which they find themselves. It's not enough just to go visit them, they want arrangements, seven years of absolute defeat in social policy. Counsellor, the truth is, we don't believe why the president is still the same and you've just sold headlines today. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u164	Good afternoon, everyone. When we've had an hour's debate and it seems that the councillor has left the unicorn at the entrance of Parliament, we're going to talk about the truth. Because one hour talking about social policy and here we haven't talked about poverty. In this country there is poverty, in Galicia there are poor people, in Galicia there are people who can't keep their homes. And you've had a half-hour intervention and you haven't named poverty in this country. Doesn't it exist? Or are you the advisor who's going to parapet the social reality of this country? Little parapet they put, because social reality is out there, and social reality says that you are the ones who caused poverty, those who drove people out of their homes and those who are causing an incalculable social drama. What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do about it? I've prepared what I was going to tell you, but I'm certainly indignant at your intervention. When it comes to social policy, not one, not one reference to the situation of inequality, poverty and poor workers. And you based your intervention on three questions, three single questions. First, the Risga. Do you know what the risk situation is in this country? Absolutely no proactivity. On Friday I accompanied a person who asks on the street to ask for the risk in my municipality, because there are many people unable to access that benefit, first, because the bureaucratic locks are gross, two paperwork sheets that should be automatically given by the Administration to facilitate access to the risk; second question, brutal control over people who access the risk, to charge only 400 euros are more controlled than the president of the Galician board, who goes through with narcotics and doesn't control it, in-the-scene! You spoke to me in your Risk Budget appearance that there was zero waiting list; it's a lie, 25% waiting list. But how do you hide the waiting list? Because they disappear from the waiting list when they're told that one of those twenty roles has to be delivered and then zero waiting list. That's the reality. I'd like you to be on the street – I'm sorry, because I don't want you to be on the street, understand me – that you put yourself in the situation of someone who's on the street and go to the social services and put them on the table for those twenty-two papers that you have to get to pay the benefit in good luck within four months. What are you doing? Because if you stop going to the street, you don't eat that day. That's the reality of this country, and you don't have a single word for that reality. Second question, second policy, birth policy. Do you think with the baby check you're going to solve this issue? 100 euros for each family who has a child. I'm sure everyone tonight is going to become children, because the 100 euros are irrevocable. Do you know what you get with 100 euros? [[Murmurs.]] By the way, those 100 euros don't say as if you have to justify what you earn or not. How much is a leather package worth in this country? Do you know how much a leather package is worth? At least 30 euros, at least 30 euros; if your child shits above his or her chances, he or she is no longer 100 euros. Second question, do you know how much a milk package in powder in this country costs? At least 17 euros. Do you know how much you consume a child every week? The 100 euros aren't enough for a child's maintenance. It's impossible for that baby check to arrive at all. So I ask you to be realistic, realistic. Two measures, risk and baby check, insufficient, that don't come up for anything. And the last question you raised, on the subject of youth. Youth budgets, the most important game, four times as large as all others for transnational mobility. The solution for our boys is that they move transnationally, emigrate, leave this country, because you don't give them solutions. Look, we can't buy you your self-comprehensive speech. You're trying to fool the House. And while you were trying to fool the House, today, at that time that you tried to fool the House, many families have to decide between whether they feed their children, whether they buy their school material or pay their housing, because they can't handle all three things. What are you going to do with that reality? It's not true that we're coming out of the crisis, it's not true. But it is that, in addition, if it were true, it would be more indecent even if we were supposed to be sure that we were out of the crisis to be able to care for people who are outside the system, who are excluded and who have a situation of brutal inequality. You can't be content with the improved statistics on poverty figures, because you should know that the improved statistics on poverty figures depend on the median wage and income perceptions of this country getting worse and, therefore, it's harder to stay away from that median. It's a statistical issue. But the reality of that is outside, which there are many people in this country who have difficulties. What are you going to do with those people who, despite their work, can't live? And I'll give you data. Inequality. 95,000 people in Galicia earn less than 655 euros; 95,000 people in Galicia, 655 euros gross a month. You know what that means? Do you know what it means that you can't live in a house? Do you know what it means that this is turning people into food insolvency? Do you know the situation of food insolvency in this country? Do you know that in this country there are thousands of people who have to decide every three days to eat meat if they're lucky, because they can't do it every day? Food insolvency. But let's go further. You tell me about the energy check. You're kidding, right? You're kidding. Look, I'm going to read you a resolution, resolution of your government, last half of 2014: 1,297 electricity checks were charged, amounting to EUR 135,000. Do you know how much that means? Only EUR 107 for each of those families for six months. With 107 euros for six months you don't pay the minimum without lighting up a single light, without lighting up a single light. What are we talking about? Why are you coming here to take your hair? Why are you trying to fool us with three measures that are absolutely insufficient, that are not enough to look after people and that are also a farce? Because, look at what happens, why aren't they transparent in this Parliament, despite what Mrs Paula said – You lie, sorry, "gift gift" – Prado this morning? Resolution that says how many were granted... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u165	Mr. Fajardo, not dialogue and continue with your intervention, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u166	Oh, I just didn't understand very well whether I was talking about the Maya bee or what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u167	Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u168	I'm sorry. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? It's just that I released in the Mili for deafness, can you speak louder? Oh, all right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Galician board government resolution on the electric ticket. When it comes to the grant, it is said: 1,297 grantees, amounting to EUR 135,000. When it is said not to be granted, a resolution is removed but the number is not given. Could you tell me how many requests have not been answered? Could you tell me? Could you tell me, just like the unattended requests, what is the number of people who asked for the Risk and denied them, and what were the reasons? Because when you talk about caring for people who are going through it, you should explain that many of the people who don't get the Risk have done it because, for example, when there's a family reunion because you can't care about your home and if you're going to live together at the home of your parents, your mother-in-laws, your friends, you're going to fight like one and you're taking the Risk off. Could you explain to me how it is possible in this country that if you take the risk away from people who are forced to go to a training course beyond their county which have no means of transport and how they don't go and there is no public transport if you deny them and take the risk away from them? Could you explain these situations to me? That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] But let's also talk about dependency, let's talk about how you might be talking about improving dependency attention when some issues are given to us that are tremendously serious. The first, 40% of the dependency waiting list, absolutely intolerable in an advanced country. Second question, how is it possible to increase the coffers last year and tell me now that they're going to solve? In what amounts? How long will it be? 40% of the average cost increase of the dependency spores that were made during last summer. What's the amount of what you're going to assume? And how long was every family supposed to be? Because you, during the electoral period, announce here that they will be eliminated, but tell me how much, concrete, concrete. You've talked here about eliminating spores. How much? Oh, you don't know. Of course, you have no idea. Oh, I didn't say. Did you say that? Did you say that? Are you going to say that means that plan against inequality? Say some measure, because you come here, let go of an inflammation, but it doesn't say a single concrete measure. Because they don't exist. Because you came here to do electoralism. And when I talk about the ability to pay attention to dependents, I'd like you to explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u169	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u170	... –Yes, finished, Madam President – how can adequate attention be given to dependents when the workers' rights of their service are violated. What are you going to do about your job rights infringement judgments? What are you going to do with those situations that happen, that prevent you from paying proper attention in your service? And finally, I can't buy you the speech of increasing or doubling the aid to the third sector either. Of course, we have to help the third sector, double or quadrupled. But do you know why you have to do that? Because your department is devoid of functions and therefore in this country social services are being done by families and entities in the non-profit sector, because the state omits its responsibility of attention to people who are experiencing it badly, and that's why we need to increase aid, because if there were no organized civil society or the umbrellas of families, today there would be a social fire of dramatic magnitudes. And that's what you have to explain. So, I ask you – I told you in your presence at the commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u172	...that it was the same as today – that I have the data, that I have the plans and that I have the idea of why you, after appearing twice in this Parliament, still don't recognize that there are poor people in this country. And you can say, there's poverty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u174	...exist. I'm asking you to recognize him at least.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u175	Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u176	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the truth is that you today in this first appearance – you could take advantage of it to do it in the first plenary session after being appointed and you waited for us to discuss it from the Socialist Group to see the obligation to arrive here – what you came to reiterate the arguments that you have already given us all and all in the Budget Commission to present the budget, with a brick that you have been saying since the government was changed, since Mr Feijó made the change of Government, which is that now that we are already in economic recovery we are going to take advantage of to care for the people who have gone wrong, when the reality is that you, even during the economic crisis, could have made an effort that you did not want to make. Because look, the situation in which thousands of Greek families are living today is not the product of the economic crisis, it is the product of their political decisions. You took advantage of the economic crisis to carry out your hidden ideological program, which was no less than dismantling public services and changing people's rights for charity and assistance and welfare. That was his ideological programme and they took advantage of that economic crisis. Because look, if it wasn't so, and if you were what you had was just a problem with a lack of income in the Autonomous Community to care for people with disabilities, older people, homeless people, dependent people, children and children, you could have accepted throughout these more than six years of Mr Feijóo's government some of the initiatives we brought here the opposition groups, namely the Socialist Parliamentary Group, when we told them how to increase income budgets year by year. For example, by raising taxes to the IRPF's autonomic framework of people who have perceptions over EUR 60,000; for example by making a bank tax; for example by taxing companies that pollute or taxing large commercial areas. To all these issues, which we brought to budgets and even through bills, you always said no. Because it's not just a problem of economic resources, it's basically a problem of political ideology, and you have yours and I don't know why I'm the only party I know who always hides it behind words that can sound progressive. Look, he made a lot of fincapé – because in fact it is the goal of this appearance: to try to transfer it tomorrow to the media – in which you are betting on families, on good conciliation, on care in rural areas, on children’s homes – which most seem science fiction – and on direct help for newborns, and even in this case compared them to other European countries. For cost savings I will save the explanation that Mrs. Adán gave about all the direct aid for the birth of children around the countries of the European Union, which unfortunately in Spain and Galicia we are in line. But both good conciliation and care in rural areas have a common feature, which is good to highlight here. Counsellor, the common feature of these aids is that they are meant to finally get that money to private companies, private companies. Because, of course, the good reconciliation is to help families take their children to small schools of private companies, and care in rural areas is to give money to families where – specifically you said it – in rural municipalities where there are no children's school squares. So, what you're doing, once again, disguise it with fine rain, assistanceism, charity, charity – you call it what you want – is what you're wearing resources that go to private companies. Proposal. Counsellor, you bet for doing public squares, and instead of the only six new infant schools that will be built in 2016, according to your memory of budgets – in Mos, The Road, Round, Paderne, Verín and Pontedeume – you invest that money in those municipalities that demand public squares to make public childhood schools, instead of giving money to private companies. You'll see how the socialists will support it from the very beginning. Look, you were also talking about new and residential squares, science fiction again. The only one that is contemplated in the budget for 2016 is a residence of older people in Vilardevós. When you talk about Alzheimer's squares, you're talking about working with organizations, you're not talking about making new public squares. Look, counselor, this is an aesthetic change, it's an aesthetic change, and this budget, although it obviously increases with respect to last year, doesn't solve the problems. Because – I insist – the problem is not just economic resources. Could there be more economic resources devoted to social policy these years? I could. They didn't want to. But the problem is basically that you've been changing the current legislation to remove people's rights and to increase the burdens of social services users, so in many cases they are inaccessible. And although you boast that you have increased your budget for 2016, accumulated, Mr. Social Policy Counsellor, you still have EUR 900 million less than in the last year of that government so evil that it was the two-party government, accumulated. Yes, Counselor, yes, Counselor. We're going to break down the policies. Unit. 27,000 people on the waiting list, 41%, of the three highest autonomous communities in the state on the waiting list. He said they're going to take care of 10,000 people in 2016. If the average expenditure of the Board in person in recent years was more than 7,000 euros – by the way, under the state average in any case – they can only meet 3,400 more people, never 10,000. Or is it that the 10,000 people you're talking about are the ones who fall down on the waiting list and that correspond to the desistment, to the desistment of the people, because they can't bear the 40% increase in the trees, and more to the ones who die, Counsellor? Because I remind you that we are from the autonomous communities with less public expenditure per inhabitant, 88.67 euros, when the state average is 104; Extremeura, which is next there, 117; and Asturias, which is there north, 96. Look, the progressive tendency to increase the number of persons cared for in dependence has been broken, rachouse in 2012. And rachouse because you've taken legal measures, not by budget. Because you have fully adhered to the rules that Mr. Rajoy's government has implemented at the state level. When other autonomous communities, such as Andalusia and Asturias, did not increase the coke for users, you, yes. And they did an indecent reassessment, Counselor, which makes people have to be giving up that right because they can't face the coop. I told you a lot about this issue, as you know, in the budget debate. Look, we have the coopies for the people who use the state's seniors in terms of dependency. There are 13 autonomous communities that have fewer trees than we do. And you haven't talked about the debt the central government has with us. He talked about minors, checks, baby bonds – I told him: for the private company – but you didn't talk about children without families who are increasingly institutionalized, who are giving up their family reception and adoption programs. You haven't talked about the minors who are interns in court for judicial measures suffering brutal cuts also in material and human media with a policy that has since forgotten social reintegration. And you didn't speak for anything, when you talked about minors, about the lack of coordination between your counsellor, the Vice-Presidentship, Justice and the Prosecutor's Office when it comes to violence against children by means of child abuse, shared custody or visits by abusive parents that were then finished this summer in my province. And you didn't speak at all from the public centers, Mr. Counsellor, and I want to show you a photograph that I think shows, or two, that I think shows the situation of the public centers in Galicia, counsellor. In his province, public centers in which there are mattresses on the floor so that the older people who care for them rest after eating; public centers in which there are glasses, in which the hot water does not work, in which it comes cold through the windows, in which it rains inside. This is the situation of the public centers of his council. Visit the centers, but the first thing you have to do before you visit the centers is put more investment, because what you put in the budgets is absolutely insufficient, to fix those centers and so that older people, people with disabilities, children and children can be cared for. Look, and you didn't talk about something very important. A lot of checks, bonuses, etc., but the price of children's schools, Counsellor, who has increased it in these years?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u177	Finish, Mrs Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u178	You. To pay for the 2002 Decree, EUR 110 per month, to pay for its 160; to pay for the dining room EUR 33 per month, to pay 70; to have support for the transport of EUR 33 per month, to have no assistance of any kind.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u180	Counsellor – I insist – is not just a matter of budgets, in any case much smaller than there was in 2009, it's a matter of ideology. And while you don't commit yourself here to modify the legislation, to cut down the strawberries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u181	Finish it, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u182	...and recovering the rights of dependent people, older people, children and families, there will be no economic recovery that can perceive the people who are going through it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u184	...because all they'll have from you is charity, and we want rights, we don't want charity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Mrs Rodríguez Arias, Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, welcome to your first appearance in this plenary, but not your first intervention; you have already been here explaining the situation of the Dependency Law in our community, you have been in the Committee on Economics explaining your department's budgets for 2016, and today you come to explain to the House the general lines of action of the Social Policy Council. We are surprised by one question: you have come here to see that these budgets for the coming year mean more measures to fight against inequality, social exclusion and poverty, more resources for families, more resources for people who have less, more resources for the greatest and most resources for dependent people, and the criticism of opposition to these budgets is that it is not just a matter of budgets, but also an issue of ideology. Something that gives us thinking. It seems that the opposition didn't put much effort into criticizing budgets, because they know there's more resources for people, more resources for the biggest, more resources for those dependent people. Isn't it just a matter of budgets? So we think the commitments are demonstrated through the figures. And it turns out that now, when there's more resources and new measures, what they say is that they're insufficient. It seems to you that this help of these 100 euros per month per child is insufficient, you see the electric ticket or the bond in conciliation as insufficient, other issues that have just been exposed here to improve the living conditions of many people in our community. Even if he came to defend the former Consortium against the new Galician Social Services Agency. By the way, arguing that there was more conciliation and more dialogue with the municipalities through the Consortium than now with the Galaga Social Welfare Agency. I don't know what the mayors and mayors of our community will think. And then, not only is it a matter of budgets but it's of ideology, the socialist spokesman says that the People's Party hides its ideology, that what you really want is to destroy public services. Look, you don't hide your ideology, the Galician Union doesn't hide your ideology, you don't hide your budgets, and you, Mrs. Gallego, haven't hidden your ideology either. In relation to social services and dependence, you thought that we were left by hand and that the welfare state should be cut off in our community. So you check when you talk and criticize or say it's not a matter of budgets but also an issue of ideologies. And look, the commitments are shown in budgets, and the budgets for the Social Policy Council will count next year with 618.5 million euros, 12.6% more than this year 2015; we're talking about 26 million more. More budget for social inclusion. It was said here that there was no mention of poverty. He was the adviser speaking of all the appearances of poverty and measures to combat poverty. The Galician Social Inclusion Strategy has been mentioned, with over 521 million euros. We talked about social inclusion budgets, with 86.5 million euros, an increase of 24.3. We talked about Risk; Risk increases its budget, reaching 52.7 million euros, and you know it's a huge game, because in the budgets this year it has expanded in relation to what we approved in this House, which then actually went to. And if we're talking about Risk, we also have to talk about recruiting people who perceive this Risk, which is 10 million euros, something that you, when you talk about Risk, just talk about help and absolutely nothing about the inclusion of people who are experiencing a Risk. And with regard to social inclusion aid, it's going to be EUR 4.5 million; we're talking about an increase of EUR 1.6 million in relation to the year 2009. The budget for entities is doubled, EUR 7.3 million. The budget for the municipalities is doubled, EUR 3.4 million. But you say it's not just about figures, and budgets, but also about ideology. Look, when you talk about dependency, you remind yourself that since 2009 Galician Union has done nothing but increase budgets for dependency and increase people cared for in Galicia. In 2009, EUR 126 million was allocated to care for dependent persons in Galicia, and in 2016 EUR 324.2 million was allocated to care for dependent persons in Galicia, EUR 198.2 million more, which we understand, Mrs. Gallego, that these money is to better and better care for dependent people in Galicia, not to justify certain issues that you have just argued about. And in addition, the number of those attended doubled; in 2009 the ratio was 30%, today is 60.33%. And besides, you always make strange cabals when you talk here about increasing the existing heights by 2016. The counselor says there's a goal: to increase 10,000 high news in the dependency care system, and you get here saying that those 10,000 high news – and then you already make a premonition – will be people who give up or at least people who die. I think that, speaking of dependence, Mrs Gallego, it must be a little more serious and stricter in this Parliament. And if you want to talk about the good conciliation, which seems to be that you don't like; if you want to talk about the good caretaker in rural, 3 million, too, that you don't seem to like it; if you want to talk about the direct help of 100 euros monthly, which seems to you don't like it, we're sure that those over 16,000 families won't seem absurd this direct help of 100 euros a month; it seems like the opposition itself. [[Applause]] But the whole thing is you're comparing this 100-euro direct help with the baby check. It has nothing to do with it. They've already explained it to you in the Committee on Economics, it has nothing to do with it. Look, just one question, that you'll all understand, if you allow me, just one question, that you'll all understand. [[Murmurs.]] With the baby check, any member of this House who had a child could charge him; with the direct help of 100 euros from Galician Union, it is not so, but they will charge those 100 euros according to income and also for those needs for children's and children's children's children. That's the difference between the policy you advocate and the policy of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] And look, when they criticize the good caretaker of rural areas or the good conciliation, and they talk about what the Galician board is doing is privatizing social services, it's that we really don't understand anything. It is that you were the Government that most squares held in relation to the children's schools, in relation to education, and come here now saying that to concert squares in those places in Galicia where there is no public square near so that the family can take their children, that is to privatize social services. It's just that, of course, I don't understand anything anymore, I don't understand anything. And look, for the fight against child poverty, not only do we have the Social Inclusion Strategy, we also have the National Social Inclusion Plan, with €136 billion. We have the Plan against Economic Inequity in Galicia, with 20 million euros. Now it seems like it's not a good idea for families to benefit from drugs, to support mobility through material, to pay rent or mortgage from families that cannot cope with it, to help purchase school materials or to those people who cannot afford the light. So, Counsellor, it seems that these growing budgets do not like the opposition, it seems that they haven't changed their positions much since the debate of Commission 3rd. By the way, the adviser said he was open to receiving opposition proposals in relation to the new programs and the new lines of help you announced in the Commission. There are some parliamentary groups that have not come to this debate and now it seems that they feel excluded, but, of course, that offer on the part of the Union remains open, we hope that the opposition will be sensible and, instead of criticizing, what it does is to put measures on the table and its proposals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. You have the floor to reply to Social Policy Counsellor José Manuel Rey Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u188	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to try to answer to the different parliamentary groups, especially to try to explain some things, which I shouldn't have explained clearly enough in the first intervention, or I said some things and some spokesmen understood things different from what I said, right? About the increase in budget, 12%, Mrs. Martínez, – oh!, you're there – 12%, 12%, when the budget increase in Galician board for the coming year, as you know, is 4%. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So the expenditure for social policy, if we multiply 4 by 3, gives us 12. So, the budget increase in social policy, 12%. You must have missed the part that talked about each of the expenditure areas of the Social Policy Council. So I tell you one by one the areas of social policy spending. Major. I'm saying that because Mrs Gallego also told me that there was more spending on social policy in the 9th than in the 16th. So, by areas, of this council, which is social policy – and that's what I'm seeing – I tell you: spending area of older people and people with disabilities: year 2009, 213 million euros; year 2016, 281 million euros. Family area, children and children. Now it's true that we put the issue of population promotion, right, and we're only talking about the new aid, they're not talking about conciliation, which is the fundamental element that absorbs most of the economic resources in this area of expenditure. I understand that they liked the measure very much, and that's why we only talk about that measure and not many other measures that exist and absorb important budgets. Because they look at, in 2009, 47 million euros, 47 million euros; year 2016, 97 million euros. And I'm going to tell you again: that measure that they talk about, 9 million euros from the budget of 16, 9 of 97; therefore, something else we will do, in family policy. Inclusion. In 2009, 66 million euros – I now tell you, Mr Fajardo, do not get nervous – to fight poverty; 66 million euros, 2009; 97 million euros, 2016. [[Murmurs.]] Thursday. 15 million euros in 2016... Home!, Mr. Fajardo, let me answer Mrs. Martínez, who asked me for some data and gave them. EUR 440 million in 2009 for expenditure associated with social policy; its spending centres, EUR 612 million now. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Martínez, tell me you don't keep the children around. The policy of the Galician Union, which governs in recent years, has been precisely to keep the children around. You may ask the Red Cross, the Children's Villages, the Children's Villages, the Agafem, an entity I've been with two days ago, created in June, precisely for family shelters other than the extended family. He'll tell me later what he meant exactly. I insult the intelligence that someone will have a son for 1,000 euros; for I insult the intelligence, I didn't say so, I didn't say it. What we really want is that Galicia is the best place to be a child or to be a child. We're not going to tell your parents and your Greek mothers when they have to have children. Our style isn't that, our style isn't that. [[Applause]] That kind of public planning doesn't go with this council or go with this government. What we want – I insist – is that this is the best place, one of the best places in Europe. Then I'll continue my comparison. Mrs. Martínez, no triumphalism with the Risk, indeed, no triumphalism. But really it doesn't appear in the council a delay like what you're talking to us, with the complete file, none. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Adam, tell me I have repeated the intervention of budgets, of the attendance of budgets. You repeated the reply you gave me in budgets, that is indeed true, but look, I've already told you in budgets: is that good conciliation gives it to private squares. [[Applause]] It is that, really, there are many cooperatives in Galicia of vocational people who have studied child education that have a small company, that are autonomous and that they will be able to benefit from the good conciliation, and these are not those great multinationals, nor the Troika or anything, they are people with names and surnames who are vocations; they are called social initiative entities and they actually have concerted squares with the Council of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Houses nesting or good conciliation, call it whatever you want, the least is the name, the least is the name. [[Laughter]] They are committed to the name We are trying to have a package of integral measures for the Greek families, and we will gradually be able – I hope – to demonstrate that in that integral package there are different services, not the services that they are talking about only. Houses nest, next year. Baby check. Look, I didn't talk about check-check-baby, I'll say it again. It's not a baby-checker, it's a direct help on the line of the countries in our environment. Mrs. Adam, you spoke of Denmark, 118 euros a month. You talked about Norway, you said it, 125 euros a month. You spoke of Sweden, 115 euros/month – I have 100 euros. You spoke of Austria, 105 euros a month. And you spoke of Spain. Look, I'm talking about Galicia. Galicia, 100 euros/month. I also repeat to you that we are starting up on the line of European countries that give 105 euros, which give 118 euros, for several years, but will not expect us now to say that it will happen in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, with regard to the Greeks and the Greeks [[Applause]] Our vocation – I insist, because it is equally misunderstood – the vocation of the council, the vocation of this Government, is that this measure begins on January 1, 2016 and continues in time. Where is this not understood? May it continue in time, as in the countries of our environment: Austria, 105 euros. Finland – which has not said, and is one of the best –, 90 euros/month, 90 euros/month Finland. If we have something of a euro, we can adjust it. Tell me about the permissions. Look, the permits are not within the competence of the Autonomous Community; they are not within the competence of the Autonomous Community. I insist that this is not an isolated act: EUR 9 million, of EUR 97 million, for the families of Galicia. This is a package of measures, we are serious about these measures to support families. About Risk. I told him the other day. We're here to speed up the files. We've been agitating the files these weeks, and I've already told them that we have no record of complete records, sent by municipalities, of more than 1 month's duration. If you have any cases, I told you the other day, we'll see. That's not clientelism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When there's a problem, what we have to do is help to solve the problem. Mrs. Adam, the cop. Look, it's just that the coven exists all over Spain, so it's not something unique to the autonomous community. Then he spoke about the consortium. Mrs. Adam, ask the mayors. On Thursday I meet the Consortium's Executive Committee. I'll have an opportunity to speak to the mayors and the mayors. I've already talked to Fegamp about the consortium. So they'll have information as they speak to the various mayors and mayors. The goal is to talk to everyone. Mr. Fajardo, you insisted that I don't name poverty. I've talked a lot about people at risk of exclusion, people at risk of exclusion from the Plan of Combating Economic Inequity... is that it's about poverty, about thousands of people in Galicia who have serious difficulties. That's about poverty. But not only that, it's accompanied by public policies that bring together public resources. That's why at Risga I give you the data: 5 million euros more than last year. Initials, 52.7 million, in a wide-ranging game. So these are data, these are people who are waiting for Galician social integration income. There are many other people who are waiting for other incomes, for promised incomes that have generated expectations, but for now, what we have in Galicia is Galicia's income for social integration, with an increased share. Then you told me about birth, about the price of diapers, about the price of baby milk. We all know how much clothing costs and how much the baby milk costs. What we do is policies to help people -- not those who have a lot of income, but people who have little incomes and who have average incomes, too, because we also want to help families with half incomes from Galicia, to buy exactly these products of what you've been talking about: the diapers, the baby milk and many other products. That I'm not the only one, but that they help our children to have a better quality of life. You asked me if I know the food insolvency – he called it. Well, look, I know the food banks, I know many Caritas centers, I know several economic kitchens in Galicia. I don't know if someone calls you insolvency in addition to you in Galicia, but I think there are a lot of people who need all the centers and need administration support just to avoid hunger, to avoid hunger. [[Applause]] Then he says I'll let you sleep. Well, you tell me, at last. Mrs. Gallego, I've also been told that she repeated arguments from the Budget Act. Now, look, it's inevitable to talk about strategic lines of counseling and talk about the economic support that these strategic lines of counseling have. Because if there was no economic support for the strategic lines, what would be words only, they would be promises, they would be illusions that they would then become frustrated because we are unable to give them answers to those illusions and to those words that often say to the public representatives without knowing that later we must comply. That's why I want to tell you, Mrs. Gallego – she has told me several times – that I, my counsellor and my Government will try to do everything possible in 2016 to meet 10,000 people who are currently in a position of dependence for them to have coverage in 2016. This will be explained in the ratio, which is published. At this point, the ratio is 60%. It's our goal, it wasn't good to have targets, and to have ambitious targets! Tell me, how are you going to do it? Well, you'll see, you'll see. Little by little, little by little. I come from the local administration, and sometimes it's little time to do a lot. We're going to try to raise that ratio from 60% to 75%. That's the Government's goal. I hope all groups ask for at least 75%. You should ask for more, because 75% I think we're coming next year. Good conciliation. Of course, it's nice to talk about the name alone! But really, I'd like to talk about the 1,400 families that have no place today and are going to have it in 2016. It's just that if we stick with the name...! The important thing is the 1,400 families. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or with the public discourse, private, which is cooperative, if it's a social initiative entity... it's 1,400 families that now have no place, who don't have it right now, and who are going to have it in 2016. After that, the bonus takes care of the countryside. To give private companies the right care in rural areas is to repeat an experience that exists in many municipalities of Galicia, in all the municipalities of Galicia, which are the caregivers of older children and children. It's the same. The model? You'll say it every county. So they can live with several different models. But I don't think it's a profit issue for any private company, and against the price/hour and the economic amounts of what we're talking about. Then he talks to me about six children's schools in the budget. It's like the bond, the rural reconciliation. I'm not going to tell you about childhood schools, I'm not going to tell you about cement, Mrs. Gallego, I'm going to tell you about families, families. Next year, 500 new families in public squares of children's schools in Galicia. I believe that these are the objectives, the general objectives of the council, and I hope and wish that we could meet these objectives that we report. Difficult? They won't miss us on the way. But, of course, illusion and work to make that goal come true, which is to have a better Galician, that Galician families can live in 2016 a little better than they lived in 2015. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u189	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group to Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u190	Thank you, President. I'm going to start with the speech of the People's Party spokesman because, of course, we're talking about ideology. Ideology marks budget lines, so budgets are loaded with ideology. And that's what the budgets of the Board reflect, a right-wing ideology, which supports policies that do not primarily favour the social majority, but favor concrete economic interests, such as, for example, what the advisor now like this, a little bit of a joke, said: public or private, but the important thing is to have the squares. Well, no sir, it's important that the squares be public. And to be private, and public money is used to promote private business, it's an ideological matter. As it is an ideological question to leave for 2016, as a prediction and goal of the Union, that 25% of dependents do not receive help. That's the goal of Joining: to leave 25% of the people who need it out of their help. He's talking about eliminating coke for people with Alzheimer's. I'd talk about creating Alzheimer's care centers because we don't have them and if they need them. They're not questions of help, they're questions of activities and therapies for these people. You also talk about the abandonment of non-professional caregivers. He doesn't talk about the situation of these women – and I told him – of the situation they are living in today and the future that lies ahead of them because of their policies. He hasn't told me anything about institutionalized minors, about the possibility of the existence of protected floors so that, when these minors drop out of boarding schools and become part of adult life, they have a space of adaptation time on a protected floor, at least until they find a job. Salary, housing, the protection of women victims of violence... I tell you, I don't know what's laughing when there are 20,666 victims, recognized by the Ministry of the Interior, in Galicia in September this year. There are 20,666 women victims of gender-based violence, and you take no action. As for risk, low budgeting, lack of staff, heavy processing, delays over 6 months. And I repeat, in Vigo it comes to the year, as much as you say no. And then 34% of these applications are rejected – as Mr. Fajardo said – for questions like having a car, or having to live with relatives, or inheriting a read. That's why they just deny Risk. I personally took the case of a woman, the man was a sailor, an annual income of 6,800 euros, and if he refused the Risk because in his family there was another income. The solution they gave was that they separated, the only way to charge the risk. That's his policy. Rural care vouchers are also a patch. What needs to be put on is community social services, where, in addition to allowing families to develop their lives for a few hours, older people are cared for and motivated to remain active in life. But you keep putting patches on. Severe poverty and social inequality are increasing and it has not been named. He talked about the patches that he was going to put on poverty, but he did not appoint any measures to prevent and paralyze this increase in poverty and social inequality. As for the family card, it's talking about numerous families as if the problem was just outside the many families in this country; it's nothing more than that. As far as the plan is concerned, there is something else that is very appealing to me, and it is that you have not appointed a single measure for something which is a commitment in this Parliament, which is a plan to welcome refugees; it has not named them. So, I think it's propaganda again, just propaganda. I'm telling you again that it doesn't seem normal for me to include dependency and older people in the same package. And I'm going to tell you, in addition, about the dependency aid, another specific case. A 70-year-old woman who is taking care of her husband, almost 80, and has no help at home; she has to mobilize him alone and the man is in a wheelchair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u192	That's Galician social reality and it's the social reality you're not responding to. So they lie and sell propaganda. I suppose we will have a lot of propaganda from the People's Party from here at the next elections to the German Parliament, and very little is done, unfortunately. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u193	To you. Mrs. Adam Villamarín for the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u194	Thank you, President. Look, Counselor, how do you not want us to talk about the baby check if it's as Mr. President announced, if it was the big headlines you gave? When they do the new councillorship, because it was obvious that social problems could no longer hide them, that's one of the great headlines: the demographic problem and the solutions that arise. So, look, whenever you want to talk about co-responsibility and about the European environment, anytime. It is also a debate – you don't know – that in this House, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has already brought up a bill on co-responsibility, with help, with direct services -- we are prepared to discuss this issue. But don't tell us here that countries called the European environment give 100 euros per month a year. It's 16 years old, 18 years old, up to 25 years in the case of some. So the question is, how many years are you going to give this help? And if you tell me you don't know, there's no government that wants to plan on demography and do it with a year-long view, because that's it, let's go! electoralism, but also a rample. So, demography, or if it's planned in time, or there's no such thing. With regard to children's schools, what does it tell me about cooperatives? What is the good conciliation? For many years now, more than two decades ago, it was about the child's check; and the child's check was the private squares, which are subsidised with public money, and which you call public squares. The public squares, for now, are those belonging to the Consortium; these are the public squares... yes, yes, and those of the Galician Union that are within the Welfare Agency. Those are the public squares that exist, only. The others are subsidised with public money, but they're not public squares. The question is how many public squares are going to increase next year? Don't tell me how much the child's check is going to increase. Unless you now change your name and the good reconciliation is simply a child's check. Tell us if it's the extended children's check, because we know that a little bit. Risk. Look, right now, I'm ready to tell you that there's a council in Galicia where there are 148 unsolved files that have been on average for three months with a complete file, data checked this morning. That's the reality. So, please ask that the data be passed to you by the people who work in your department, who are sure to have them updated. In fact, there are complete files that go much further than a month. But far beyond! And what I asked you about Risk: With all those people who work two hours, three hours or sporadicly, what are you going to do?, will you lose your Risk, how is it going? Mrs Mato has been committed to an inclusion regulation and risk could be compatible. As you pick it up right now, that's impossible if we really want them to get to a job. When will the regulation be? About poverty and energy ticket. Look, we've also discussed a law in this legislation – if you didn't know it – about energy poverty, and the People's Party has already explained to us that there was no energy poverty, that there were vulnerable consumers and consumers. Well, these vulnerable consumers and consumers – in this euphemism of words – are around 184,000 in Galicia, who can't turn on heating in winter and in many cases are thrown to light cuts. How many energy tickets were given in the previous exercise? How many were exactly? What is the management of these energy tickets, which almost block the social services of the municipalities of the really difficult and difficult they are? People who are in energy poverty, who are going to be cut off, have almost necessarily to do a master's degree in administrative management in order to be able to order the energy ticket. How many people are you going to get to? And above all, how do you think, as Social Policy Advisor, avoid electric power supply cuts? That's the question, and the rest, nothing, propaganda. And Consortium, of course we want to talk about the Consortium!, how could we not want to talk about the Consortium? Counsellor and honourable lady, you have a monumental Christ simply mounted by sectarianism. Is it a useful tool for managing social services? whether or not? That was the question. They shared the municipalities, with all the difficulties and with what they were, that management, yes or no? What is the alternative model? What are we talking about? What is the model of the Welfare Agency? That's what we want to know. May a letter come and these be the conditions, without negotiating with the municipalities; just as for a large council, like Vigo, that for a small village council? Is that the model of the Wellness Agency? What is the participation in the management bodies of the Wellness Agency? Why is that change made? Because he's paralyzed, because, of course, the municipalities had to sign there for May...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u195	Finish it, Mrs. Adam, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u196	...and we're in November, and most of the municipalities still don't sign those conventions. Counsellor, what will your policy be in the Welfare Agency? Did you paralyze her? And as it appears in the budgets that we are debating, are you going to stay in the Consortium? And above all, the Consortium that can't lose is quality, because I want to remind you – yes, quality – that the Consortium's childhood schools have changed their schedule to limit it. You talk to us here about conciliation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u198	...and limits up to the hours of the Consortium's childhood schools. If you don't know, ask. And I also leave you a question, do you have any compensation for suppliers from the Consortium? Many are the debates that we have to give about poverty, about demography, about dependence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u200	...but, indeed, when you come here, it brings a little more anxiety to hear. The debate – it's over, Madam President – for us is fundamental because there's finally a Social Policy Council. We had a counselor who did what he did was disassemble. You really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u201	Finish it, Mrs. Adam. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u202	...will you have a commitment to social services, to poverty, to demographics and to the Consortium? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u203	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u204	Well, certainly disappointed with your answer. I asked you a specific question and you didn't answer any of the specific questions. I'll do a few things for you to take into account the needs of this country. But when I tell you that you don't name poverty is that you don't recognize the poverty situation in this country. And when I tell you that, it tells me about the food banks, which knows the food banks. Could you tell me what the budget for food banks of your board's budget for this year? 66,000 euros. Do you believe that in a situation of poverty like that of this country, of thousands of families turning to food banks, the approach that is being made since Galician Union could be 66,000 euros for Galician food banks? It's a coat of hair! Especially if we compare it to other approaches. You said so, 2 million euros for transnational mobility of our young people, that is to encourage emigration because they have no way out here. And, on the other hand, EUR 66,000 for food banks. We're going! We're going! I ask you for specific questions. I told you to tell me what were the electric ticket requests that were denied last year. I told you, in addition, that in the last half of the year, 1,297 applications from about 185,000 Greeks are in energy poverty. You know what that means? That throughout the year the electric ticket reached only 0.5% of the people in Galicia who need help to pay for their electricity. What do we talk about when we talk about you going to help those who are affected by the economic crisis? Did you tell me about the Plan of Fight Against Inequality? Plan, the headline is fine, plan, but what are the measures taken to combat inequality? The only measure this Government has in matters of poverty is Risga, and it's absolutely insufficient and a demonstration that its policies are wrong, because more and more people are forced to access that social aid because you don't get them out. Besides, I would like you to explain, for example, how many of those who used Risga last year to access a job in the municipalities later found a job in the branch where they worked in the municipalities. Because when making a plan, you have to quantify the results to see if it can continue or not continue. Or it was just a plan to give cheap workers to the municipalities to do the works before the municipal elections, which is what actually was that plan. Talk to me again and keep telling me what conciliation measures are. I urge you, the baby check doesn't help people have children in this country. And when I talk to you about conciliation measures, I tell you two questions. It's the third year this department announces the children's homes. Where are the children's houses? Where are they? Please, I asked the former advisor to take me with her one day that I would teach the people who were starving. I ask you to take me with you to see the nested houses because I don't know them. How many are there? How many children do you care for in the children's homes? What are the conditions? Be specific and say figures when you talk about those issues. Conciliation measures. The conciliation measures are different, which are not the ones in the baby's check. I'll give you an example. In the public little schools of the Blue Hen, he's cutting himself off. Even tomorrow, the House groups are going to receive an ampa from a child's school that denounces that three people are fired and therefore their children are the worst cared for, and many cannot be cared for. Is that your conciliation measure? By the way, in the conciliation measures of the Greek Government encouraging people to have children for 100 euros – in a bad way they think so – do you tell them that when they have that child for 100 euros, in many municipalities of the country, for many days of the year, they won't have a single pediatrician to attend to it when it gets bad? Because those are conciliation measures. So reality is very tense, and you don't give a single data that allows us to strike an exit. And I asked you another question, what are you going to do with the judgments that condemn your department for violation of labour rights? Apart from resorting to them, will they comply with the law?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u205	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u206	Are you going to meet the demands of schedules and shifts? I hope so. By the way, last request, because you in your audience said you'd come to listen, and when you came to the commission to give answers. Answer some of the questions I asked you about, for example, what is the plan to fight against inequality? Because he didn't take a single measure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u207	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u208	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, population dynamization policies. Look, Mr. Fraga's demographic dynamization plan was better than that of Mr. Feijóo's government, because it has neither evaluable targets nor specific figures in any of his postulates. And there are three issues that we have to do in demographic policy, and we have to develop over time, and we all know that. Moreover, the Socialist Group has contributed to us on its day in the committee which was created in this Parliament and you have not heeded it. The first is equality policy and co-responsibility policy. The second is the increase in the female occupancy rate. And the third is to create public services – public services, counsellor – especially in rural areas. You, of course, talked about squares today, because actually you and I know that next year, six little schools. That's the summary of your advisor's budgets! And, look, ratio of public squares in Galicia, Counsellor: 0.6 for every 100 people. In the middle of the state, 1.15 for every 100 people. Of all types of public squares, day centres, residences, childhood schools. As long as we don't reach, at least, the state average in public squares; as long as we don't achieve a higher rate of female occupation and as long as we don't put on policies of equality and co-responsibility, it's hard for people to encourage themselves to have children. Because look, you're talking about checks and you're talking about that depending on the income. So the problem is that few children are born, or the problem is that few children are born from families with less resources? The problem is that few children are born. So the policies that must be done, we must make them global, universal, counsellor. Look, you don't want to build public squares because it's their ideology. In fact, I don't know if you know that in this last legislation, only in this last legislation, of the 30 adjudications made for the management of the Centres of the Labour and Welfare Council, of the former Counsellor, 20 were to private companies. I saw private companies, not social-initiative entities; private-enterprises. Four names are always repeated, and I'm going to tell you from here to finish the legislation: Eulen, Troncoso, Doral Residential and Geriatric. These are the four private companies that carry the social services policy pie. That is why your group, Counsellor, did not wish to support the Socialist Parliamentary Group here when we presented a proposal for a law regulating the social concert, in order to prioritize that non-profit social initiative entities could take charge of this outsourcing of services, not commercial initiative entities. And they don't repeat the dependency law again. It's unworthy to encourage people to think they're going to attend to 10,000 people the year that comes with these budgets, because it's absolutely false. Poverty, which before had hardly given me time to talk about it, Counselor. Three more points in severe poverty since you rule; and a law of undeveloped inclusion. You spoke here of the inclusion strategy, but the inclusion law did not develop. And then the damned internal instructions. Counselor, pay attention, this is important, as you don't know yet. Your board tells officials and civil servants internal instructions so that, for example, people who have a room rented right to the kitchen are denied the help of the Risk, for example, because it is understood that they live in the same family unit. They're internal instructions that aren't in the law, it's important. But it's internal instructions that are given to care for fewer people. Because in all the services that exist in the council there is a slogan, which is: the more bureaucratic it works and the more dissident it causes, the better. And this happens with the increase of the trees, which you did, and you didn't, other autonomous communities, when they could, and they didn't. Come on in with the Risga, go in with the little schools and the tuition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u209	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u210	And municipalities. Counselor, you come from Fegamp, you've been mayor. By the way, when he was mayor, he also did some bad things about social policy, such as eliminating – among others – the Office of Inclusion. Look, you got it. They cut 70%. And do you know that since March, in the drawers of the mayors and mayors of this country, there's an agreement/affect of the former advisor that obliges them to sign a new agreement to change from the Agency Consortium to the same services, doubling the costs? And if you don't want to sign it, you don't get half the debt you've ever claimed since 2009. And by the way, you want to set up an agency, with five municipal representatives, when there was once a consortium that had 270 municipal representatives. And you know that those of your party are equally unhappy that are those of the party that I represent here. But you haven't had time to get together yet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u212	...with them or to give them no solution. Look, young man. 27% less budget than in 2009. By the way, as in the rest of the matches; the only ones that have increased were dependency and poverty. Why? Because there are more dependent people cared for and more people in poverty. And do you know why more dependent people are being cared for? Because before there was no law, there were zero dependents in 2005. It's just that this argument is absurd, and you're saying it every time you get here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u213	Finish, Mrs Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u214	Look, Counselor, we have little time today to debate, but what is clear is that the change of government is pure cosmetic, because ideology is still steep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u216	...in the budgets and in his intervention today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u217	People's Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gallego, the Dependency Act came into force on 1 January 2007. In 2007 you allocated €60.4 million to care for dependent people in Galicia. In 2008, 82.6 million were allocated. [[Murmurs.]] In 2009, 126 million. In 2010, 256.1 million euros, and in 2016, 324 million euros. What's wrong? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That the dependents to meet in 2007, in 2008, in 2009, were not the same or didn't have the same needs as the dependents currently in Galicia? Didn't they have the same needs, Mrs. Gallego? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Prudence, please, Mrs Gallego. [[Applause]] Prudence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They repeat again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u219	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u220	...social policies, social services. Question of ideology or question of budgets? We, of course, consider that social services have to be paid, and to pay them and lend them, we have to have budgets, so that people can access public services. Look, lending social services is resources, but if you think it's ideology, I'd like to know if your ideology, which meant risk 130% less than it's dedicated now, is the right thing to do or is not the right thing to do. If current ideology and budgets, which are 52.7 million euros, 10 million more for hiring people, are ideology or are budgets. There are budgets to pay social inclusion benefits because they have to be paid, they have to be paid, 4.5 million euros; an increase of 124%. Dependency help and dependency services have to be paid. What do they pay for? With budgets: 324.2 million euros, another 157 percent. We have to pay the help to fight poverty. Should these 20 million be allocated to the plan against inequality? Yes. With what? With budgets. Should services be paid for people with disabilities? Yes. With what? With 93.8 million euros, 10% more than in 2015. So more resources for social policies, more budgets, more public squares. There are 7,800 new public squares, 76% more than in 2009. What do the public squares pay for? With ideology? No, no, no, no. With budgets, Mrs Gallego, with budgets. [[Applause]] By the way, in relation to children's school squares, 96.8% has grown over the year 2009. And you're talking about there are no public squares of children's schools in Galicia. Look, for the first time, the European Union's recommended coverage has been reached. It seems that you used to feel good about the squares of childhood schools, and now that they increase by 96.8%, they demand more public squares. We also claim more public squares, but I can assure you that this 96.8% increase in public squares in children's schools was possible thanks to budgets, budgets that the Galician board put on the table. More resources, more measures and less taxes, and you know that. The reduction of income tax, succession tax and grants, the zero-tax programme in rural areas, and also measures of the plan against economic inequality. It is very serious that Members and Members of this House still do not know what the measures of the plan against economic inequality are. It's impossible. It's impossible because it's 20 million euros. It was explained here in the debate on the state of autonomy; the adviser explained it in the presence of budgets in Commission 3a. So more resources, more measures. Of course, you're left with no arguments at this time of appearance. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The Social Policy Adviser has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u222	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we should all be aware that we have always an important and complicated work to meet the objectives we have set ourselves in the Government and the Social Policy Council. We have, above all, a commitment and a responsibility. I'm committed to people and the responsibility to invest 618 million euros that the Greeks have made available to us for families and worse people who are going through it. It's 618 million euros for recovery to reach families and people that up until now aren't coming. In this sense, I think it would be good to have meeting points, because we had been listening for a long time to have a stable social policy in governments; the need for a counselor not to be mixing advice with others, which was the old debate; and now, of course, it changes the old debate and we enter into new debates, and the new debates is to have more resources to care for more families; that is the new debate. We must therefore move in time to the new debate. Social spending, the increase in social spending that is seen as the creation of this new councillor, has to reach families and people in 2016. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in addition to the subject of spending, which was the old debate, we're going to try the advice of working with coordination and consensus. Coordination and consensus. With whom? With the municipalities. And I reiterate the desire that social services should not be municipal social services or autonomous social services, but that social services should be the social services of the Greeks, the social services of the Greeks. Today, for example, I was reading in the media a council that was talking about what's going to be for emergency aid next year. What's destined for Galician Union is far superior to what's going to target any county, fortunately, to emergency aid, because we're talking about income with certain requirements, structured. How are we going to work with the municipalities? We're going to work on equipment. You'll see, Mrs. Gallego, how we're going to work with the Town Councils, how we're going to reach agreements with the Town Councils. And we're also going to increase the resources of the Council for Social Policy for the Town Council. I'm telling you, only the council order will be doubled in 2016. I know it's little, but it's better to leave it as it is to double the council order of the Social Policy Council. I couldn't do anything else coming from where I came from. So we need to update that part of the speech there. And then also with third sector entities. Look, I don't know if entities do something that we had to do. I'm sure you do. Surely the Administration had to do it, Mr. Fajardo, that I fully agree with you. But look, what we can do is we can also expand the order of entities that we have in the General Directorate of Social Inclusion and move it from 3.9 million to 7.3 million euros, because we will surely be a little more supportive to people who have already been showing solidarity for many years. We also want to start a path – I repeat again – of stable demographic revitalization; a path that has continuity in time. I don't know how to tell you to believe me anymore. That is the true objective, accompanied by other measures. Good-for-council, good-career, nesting houses and new squares in children's schools. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll take it, don't worry. I'll take it. You have patience. But look, we'll have new squares next year of new public infantry schools, but we won't be denied the right we have to have new public-funded squares, because the important thing is families, the important thing is children and girls, it's not the formulas to take the rights and carry the services. We'll give you some news. We'll give you some news about that, too. We really have a commitment to the addicts, too, I'll say it again. Do you want data? 10,000 new dependents is our goal. We have another goal: to improve the home help service. It's just that the home help service doesn't lend it to the Galician board, lends the municipalities with the collaboration of the Galician board. So I don't know. Would that be, municipal service, autonomic service, mixed service? Do you want me to tell you, about municipalities of different political signs, who has it public and who has it private, in the terminology that you used? It is that most of the councils of the Socialist Party have - as you say - private through companies. Or isn't it? The home help service. Millions of euros in the hands of companies. You want me to tell you companies? I could tell them too because they never change, they're almost always the same. Look, we're also going to try to have new residential care services, day care services, and we're going to work with the municipalities in a universal accessibility program, which also seems to us to be a very important, very important goal. And we're going to take steps in drafting projects with the municipalities. And then another goal: the modernization of public centers. A few days ago they asked me to negotiate, didn't they? I've already had two meetings, we're already negotiating. I used to talk about cooperation and cooperation and now negotiating. I have two meetings, I have instructions given to the entire department to continue negotiating with union representatives of the Social Policy Council the new posters. I hope and wish we could come to an agreement. But, of course, trading, it's not that we're going to negotiate, that we've been negotiating for some time, which is important. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also reached an agreement with Cermi, with the entities representing people with diversity. I believe that it is also important, through negotiation, through coordination, through cooperation, to incorporate Cermi and its entities into this dialogue and have already reached a consensus. With regard to Risk, Mrs. Adam, if you have the data, we can share them. I think it's very worrying that there's that data. If there are, of course, I can assure you that I will personally take action, I can assure you. Because we've given some deadlines and those deadlines are to be met. The instructions are that before the established two-month period, they have to be granted. So if these deadlines are going to be exceeded right now, we can see it and, of course, we will take measures to avoid it. We will take serious measures to avoid it. The Plan to Combat Inequality. Well, actually, I wasn't a counselor when it was approved, I'm going to develop the measures that are set out in that plan. That's why, indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I trust that in the coming months we will see the fruits of economic improvement. It is true that economic improvement is a bit cold, but that economic improvement has allowed us to have more budgets for social policy. If the budget of the Galician Union hadn't grown, it couldn't grow the budget for social policy. We're going to try to get people, people, people, people, and people in Wales to benefit from these social policies. I hope we're all able to find meeting points. I wish we worked so that, after very hard moments, the yellow homes feel that the effort is always worth it. That's why we're going to continue working as we have done since the first day that the Social Policy Council was set up. And we're going to continue to work to fulfill the fundamental lines that I drafted in this speech before the Galician Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u223	Thank you, Counselor. We continue the development of the agenda with point 4 of motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in matters of dependence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u224	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate it, you have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u225	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, look how quickly you will have the opportunity to amend the policy that has been being made so far by Mr Feijóo in matters of dependency, for example, for us to talk about numbers, ideology, politics and rights. Because you say what they say, and as much as the machine gun insists, insists and insists again and again that now you want to return to society and people who worse have experienced it with the crisis that they've made, the reality, Mr. Counsellor, in this case of the numbers, which is the only one that seems to want to talk about you, is that there are five less points of social expenditure in the 2016 budget than in 2009. So, as much as you insist, it's impossible they can twist the data to the very end of saying that they spend more today, that there's more social spending today than in 2009, because it's a lie, literally a lie. We have presented this motion to the socialists to try to solve a problem that has been settled since Mr Feijóo's rule. In the first years, as is logical and natural, since the Dependency Act – as Mrs. Rodríguez Arias said – is from 2007, in fact, each year more people were being cared for and every year more budget was being allocated. Ah!, but it came in 2012, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, and in 2012 something happened, which is that a lord who is called Rajoy, and who was in the Government of Spain for the first time, made a first decree of urgent measures in which he cut rights to people who were recognized by the Dependency Law. And in that cut of rights to people who were recognized by the Dependency Act was when these results began to happen. So for all of your lords, you know that as of 2012 the Government of Galicia began to have less budget allocated to the dependency it had in 2012, from there onwards it began to lower the budget, and also the people attended. And I don't want to remind all of you here what happened with the caregivers, with the social security cuts, but above all with the reassessments made by the former Labour and Wellness Advisor in 2013 and 2014, which led to an increase in the coops for users of an average of 40%. On average, counsellor, because I have here a list of people only with their names, the location they belong to, what they were covering before that reassessment decree and what they're posting today, and there are 409% increments, 101% of 93%, 192%, 312%. There are people, Mr. Counsellor, who in today's centres have to pay 80 percent of their pensions. And with twenty hours of day centers serving you the month, what do you do with the rest of the time, how do you eat, how do those people live? If you're willing to change the social policy of this Government, which I deny you, so I saw you, Counsellor, start by rejecting that reassessment decree, which is one of the points we ask for in this motion that we present today. They cancel the revaluations made on their own, they stop taking into account the leirs of the older people with the lowest state pensions at the expense of the estate, because what this means, Counsellor, is that these people can't go to day centers and they can't go to residences. Something's gonna start happening, and it's just that in some residences there's going to be free squares. But not because there's no demand, Counselor, but because there's not enough economic resources in families to deal with the coop. That's the problem. It's a matter of legislation, it's not just a matter of budgets. It's fake that you're going to take care of this budget next year, 10,000 more dependent people. What they really have to do is commit to a shock plan to remove this inhuman waiting list. If in Asturias you can have less than 10 per cent dependency waiting list, see who explains me here why in Galicia we have to have a 41 per cent waiting list. Because there is no political will, Counselor! Because despair and despondency are used! Because – as I told you before – in his counseling, in addition to rules that increase colleagues and bureaucratic obstacles, then are the damned internal instructions. These internal instructions, which, in the case of poverty, force officials and public officials to deny the Risk to persons who would be entitled to the law in their hands. And also those damn internal instructions that, when people go to the social services of the municipalities, they offer the combined ones that exist in the current legislation, and then, when they pose them at the Galician Council, they tell the officials that they have an internal directive that the combined is not assigned to transport. I'm talking about dependency and I'm talking about those internal guidelines. Eliminate those internal guidelines! I have here examples of municipalities where your group governs. Workers and social workers who make the proposals to the Board on the basis of what the Vigilante legislation says, and the officials themselves tell them they have an internal directive not to assign to the home aid service and day centres, to the combined, transport, counsellor. That's happening right now. So stop propaganda and start by changing those internal instructions and by changing the rule. They commit a shock plan to reduce that waiting list and claim, Counsellor, to claim the more than 111 million euros that Rajoy's Government has stopped transferring to Galicia to apply the Dependency Act. Mr. Zapatero didn't comply with the law, he co-financed 40%. Mr. Rajoy, 19%. It's a shame! And you shut up, you shut up. And besides that, what they really have to do to fight precisely that waiting list, Counsellor, is to equate public spending into dependency per inhabitant and year, at least, to the state average. In addition to changing the rule to avoid these abusive spores and to avoid that cut of rights which have been made by the Rajoy Government, which Mr. Feijóo applied as a student of the most advanced, and which, however, other autonomous communities systematically refused to apply. In addition to changing legislation, they equate public spending on the average of Spain, which, as you know, is at 104 euros, and in Galicia at 88.67. That's what to do if you really want to bet on applying the Dependency Law. But the reality, Mr. Counsellor, with the performances that have been done in recent years by both Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy, is that what you wanted to do with the Dependency Law – and you are certainly getting it – was to dismantle it. On their day they didn't dare vote against it at the Congress of Deputies, they didn't dare, but as soon as they arrived at the Government they looked in every way possible to dismantle that Law of Personal Self-Government and Dependency. Because you do not believe that social services have to be a basic and universal public policy, because you, when talking about social services, only speak in terms of poverty, and social services socialists – listen to me well, Counsellor – want them to be a public and universal policy, just as today is public health – but today it is no longer universal, it is true that Mr. Rajoy has cut it too – but also – and I will say it differently – that when socialists build the public health system, universal and free, funded by taxes. We want social services also to be a public and universal policy, not only for people who have little resources, but for all those people who need those public services, to have the income they have. Those are social services, the rest is returning to charity, to beneficence, to flags, and we want inclusions and rights, so we present this motion. If you have any political will to rectify what you've done in these six years, vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u227	We were talking about the very serious problems our country has with regard to the social needs and the social emergency situation in which we are living, and within that emergency situation is dependent, because in 2014 the population over 65 was 24% in our country, while children under 16 accounted for only 13% in our country. I mean, a population that's aging at fast paces without being given any kind of remedy and looking for a solution in the middle and long term. Because the solutions against the aging of the population, the solutions against the depopulation of our country, cannot come from electoral solutions, they are not measures that result on the first day. They're serious policies in the medium and long term, and you're nothing, nothing, nothing. The loss of active population, the increase in unemployment, reaches 49.8% in 2014 of long-term unemployed and unemployed, therefore without benefit. We are in a tremendously urgent situation and yet you both in budgets and in attendance seem to live in another country. The precariousness, eventuality, low wages, part-time schedules, are leading to this long-term high unemployment situation, without benefits and precariousness, leading many families to depend on the pensions of older people and on the pensions of dependents. So they condemn families to poverty and condemn older people and dependence on poverty. If we add to these measures of impoverishment of the working class the continuous decline in the number of hospital beds, the lowest ratio of professionals, the waiting lists in both specialized and primary care; if we continue to increase the number of hard-to-reach Greek homes to the end of the month, due to the increase in the prices of basic supplies such as energy, the low income, health payers, we are faced with a situation that is going to go to the worst, even though you sell all the propaganda you want to sell. The truth is that at 30.5% of the Greek homes there are no active members, and that's not the answer from the Board. This means that the most vulnerable people, in particular the sick people, the elderly women, the dependent women, the pregnant women and the child, cannot meet their vital needs, and must resort to social solidarity, issues that are not solved by Euro 100 or € 107 bonds, issues that need policies that go much further, policies that come marked precisely by ideology, policies that mark progressive and fair taxation, so that the rights to health, education and social services don't have to go according to income. People who earn the most have to pay it first, through taxes, to maintain those universal services for everyone. That's the policy to follow, not the policy of charity and help that you follow. A dependency situation where waiting lists grow tremendously, where there is no kind of recognition for caregivers, condemning them to the present and future misery, where home care aids do not mainly reach the rural environment, where the ADO service does not exist beyond the big cities, where home physiotherapy, home respiratory therapy, nor does it go beyond the big Galician villages. There are no community services, day centres, residences, protected apartments that really provide answers to real needs. There is a total abandonment of psychiatric patients, a total and absolute abandonment, we followed in the 19th century as regards the treatment of mental illness. Access to the working world of dependent people is not solved, they earn less because they are dependent, they have worse conditions, they don't integrate with other workers, but they work in special centres; therefore, integration is a lie. And there's no mention either of home adaptation or home adaptation aids. Many dependents live in infra-lifes, which is not addressed by the Galician Union either. So we're going to support this motion, and hopefully the new Social Policy Advisor really listens, not as it has happened so far. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u229	Thank you, President. This motion is followed almost by the debate we held a few minutes ago. In fact, we could see that few things would change in the new Council of Social Policy. Indeed, it repeats the theme of the 10,000 new dependents who will have recognized a service, not only the right, but there are clearly no budgets for those 10,000 dependents, and it is good to go to the origin of what happens with the Dependent Law: lack of funding, payroll, waiting lists, a brake on their calendar, less help, locks up coverts and, if we go to the text of the law initially, before the famous real decree to which Mrs. Galicia has already referred to, which would be the exception, which would be the libraries and that what was intended to be looking for that public network of dependency services, becomes almost habitual and forgets that public network. The truth is that today we have a law of dependency which, by the various changes that has been suffering, is not that at its moment it was designed, from which we see very clear things, to which I have already made reference before in the intervention, but which I want to put on the table. Many users can't cope with the coven, it's impossible; there are even people who have to leave the centers where they are and go home, and that situation because of the cooping and also that they are often the livelihood of families. Both the service wallet itself and the revision of the dependency has made dependents with grade 3 right now have to make a larger bet than the grade 2 ones. And the question is, do you consider this to be a fair thing? And then, a question that also concerns us very much: that when complaints are made in this regard to the Council or the Welfare Service Consortium, for months, they receive no clarification, no response whatsoever. It's a pity the councilman isn't here, because this is one of the issues we left him for this motion: what happens to the claims that come in and are parked? Many of these people later go to the courts, and they have favorable judgments, but when a complaint comes to the Consortium or the Council, they are not answered. This is another of Mrs Gallego's instructions. We will support this motion. We also consider that the subject of dependency – and with that promise of 10,000 new people incorporated – is something we will discuss in the coming months, because, indeed, all the commitments of people incorporated into the dependency in the previous year and in the previous year were subsequently denied by the data itself, as you well know, Mrs Imsserso. So 10,000 new people incorporated, what do you put together? What kind of services is this incorporation going to be? I think the problem is from the moment you decide to change the Dependency Act, change the spirit of that law, and also all the programs and services that depend on it. It was decided not to create a public network of welfare services, it's a political option, but, ultimately, what we realize is that not only private services have been mastered, but mainly the propagation, which, as has already been explained, is inescapable by most people, old people, and old people in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u231	Thank you, President. We announce that we are going to vote in favour of this motion, and we are going to vote in favour of it because we have just seen, in addition, the Government of the People's Party, who has abandoned dependent people and their families, now intends to move to the House a normal situation and a budgetary situation that does not exist, although it is true that today Mr King has admitted that 40% of waiting in the case of dependents and dependents. What if they haven't been recognized until now is that this situation is not only this year, and so do reports, social services warnings, people's own warnings every year in successive reports denouncing precisely the unbearable expectations, the limbo of dependency, the lack of resources, and now also, as has already been said here, the compensation – which has already been denounced – and also that re-evaluation of dependency degrees. In the 2015 report, the People's Valedor rebuked the Galician Union in view of these delays in its assessment, and, in the face of these delays in some specific complaints, it pointed out that the Union did not provide a solution to the problems of the people and the citizens. PSdEG comments or manages a data on this motion, 41% of that motion, and Mr. Rey acknowledged 40%, but not even with those data from the 2015 Dependency Observatory dictation, which are of the beginning of the year and which are much more commonly linked to the data it provides, the Galician Board has reached its approval, because that report commented that of the 81,000 applicants only 54,400 had the recognized degree, and, of that, at some point, more than 38,000 had already paid attention to the degree already recognized. And that was early in the year. Of course, those Imserso data are much more serious. The situation is more serious right now, and it's going to get worse at the end of that central government moratorium, where they come to account for those dependents and those grade 1 dependents who are around 15,000 people. With that makeup removed, we have 15,000 more people; that is, if they no longer care for 40% of those people now, and you have to add to it now about 20% more people who increase by a degree of grade 1 dependency. And with those figures, you can't afford that fact that they're going to take over 10,000 more people, first because we understand that it's not going to be that way. But even so, they don't even supplant that increase of those people who add up to the end of that moratorium. To show, we also have the buttons of the complaints, in which, for example, this year, Junta was condemned in Vigo's administrative dispute for delays in some cases, in a judgment that covered them with inadmissible and unabated; delays in budget cuts, as well as the Central Government, because here we forget to comment – it has been said here – that the central government does not provide the whole budget that should be financed by the dependency system. And in addition to not contributing, which does not reach even 20%, the budgets are cut from 2011 to 16.4%; clippings that epitomize also the lack of interest the central government has in this issue as well. The truth is that he is a friendly government and that he is a government of the People's Party because at no time is being claimed this funding, which had to reach up to 50% by the Central Government and 50% in the case of the Galician Union. Therefore, it seems that the budgets of the Union go in many cases not increasing attention but palliating what the central government is not giving. And it was done that even the Observatory with these data, which are – I repeat – much more lax than Imserso's own ones, reported that Galicia had more extensive waiting lists, which lost during 2015 resources of attention—resources in terms of residence—to dependent people, a decrease in the accounts of the economic benefits received by caregivers, an average public expenditure per inhabitant much less than the average State average and an average public expenditure per person dependent under the state average. And all this data shows is that they materialize in the personal misfortunes that suffer in their flesh those dependent people, who are not numbers but that they grow up in the reality of families who, unfortunately – as has been said here – on many occasions survived with the help or pensions of these people and who now have added problems with these revaluations. The reality is that in this country – and in the state as a whole, thanks precisely to the rules of the People's Party – people can die and die, as in many cases before that benefit is granted, thanks also to that regulation that suppresses retroactivity, and may not even represent any kind of expenditure for the Administration. It is therefore worth asking where they are, with these policies of the People's Party, social rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we continue the discussion of the advisor's appearance this time talking only about the application of the Dependency Law in our community. Here we are speaking by the group that is responsible for the initiative that a shock plan is needed to implement the law in our community. I'd like to remind you once again that there's more resources at this time to care for the dependents that a year ago, that there are two, that there are three, and that even since 2007. For example, in 2009 we had 126 million euros to meet all the dependents in our community; at the moment we have 324.2 million euros. I repeat it again and again that it is EUR 198.2 million more, because here we have just said that the People's Party wants to dismantle the Social Services Act. [[Murmurs.]] So explain to me how it's possible that if the People's Party wants to dismantle the Social Services Act, it's worth EUR 198.2 million more than what you're meant to care for dependent people because, then, here's something wrong. How is it possible to accuse the Government of the Union of wanting to dismantle the law if, on the other hand, the Government of the United States increases by 157 percent the budget intended to care for dependent people? And we have to keep talking about figures, even if you don't like them because, look, they actually talk about that in 2007 the law was put in place and therefore there could not be an budget given by Galicia because it had just come into force by the law: 2007, 60.4 million euros; 2008, 82.6 million euros; 2009, 126 million euros. We're talking about three years of applying the Dependency Law in a period of time when we had to care for the most serious people, with a higher degree of dependency, and you've allocated 60.4, 82.6 and 126. From the year 2010 they are destined to care for people in dependency situation 256.1, 263.2, 267, 272, 298 and, finally, in 2016, 324.2 million euros. You ask in your motion for a shock plan, and we ask ourselves, what better shock plan to deal with dependent people than from 60.4 million euros to 324.2 million euros? Because, look, to apply the Dependency Act and to care for dependents in our community, budgeting is necessary. And, of course, we believe that more dependent people are supported in Galicia with 324.2 million than 60.4 million euros. More people attended: in 2009 the ratio of care was 30%, in 2015 the ratio of care is 60.3%, and they say there is no political will to care for dependent people! So when the payout ratio was 30%, was it that you didn't have the political will to care for dependent people? And now that there's 60.33% a ratio of attention, does it show that the Joint Government has no political will to care for dependent people? I don't think this is a good idea either; therefore, I think it would be essential for them to clarify themselves. In fact, the advisor spoke of 40% of the waiting list because in his intervention he recognized that, despite the fact that there is a ratio of 60.33%, there are currently about 40% of dependent people who are not yet receiving that benefit or that service. And those are the people who are interested in caring for right now; they are interested in caring for those people who are not yet receiving the benefit. That's why there's a clear goal to include 10,000 new heights in the system in 2016. For you there will be few, but it seems that when you attended 30% it was more than you are now. And more public squares, because dependent people also need public squares: squares in day-care centres, 98% more; squares in residences for older people, 25% more; day-care centres for people with alzeimer, 77% more; public squares for people with disabilities, 15% more; teleassistation, 50% more; home-help service, 130% more. So there's data that the Socialist Group comes here to make sure I don't agree with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u235	So – finished, Mr. President – more public squares, more people cared for and more resources, and you are asking for in your motion is a plan of shock. By the way, the average investment in Galicia per dependent person is EUR 9,725 per person per year; on the average of the State, EUR 6,340 per person per year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author of the motion, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u237	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to thank the spokesmen of the opposition parliamentary groups for their support for this motion. They didn't present an amendment, and I agreed that all the groups in the main claims. And I also want to regret once again that the People's Group, on the other hand to the cosmetic aesthetics operation, this time I do not accept this motion from the Socialist Party. So, what we're doing is what we always do, come here to do propaganda, but to change politics, nothing. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, I really don't know how to explain it anymore, that of dependency, I say. [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, I think we read both budgets, and reading comprehension capacity I think we have both, I don't think we're either idiots, but what's true is that in 2009 there were 28,589 people – Imserso's data; that is, in three years since the law was implemented, the bad people met almost 30,000 people – and in 2015 where we went, on 30 September, there are 39,712 people; that is, about 10,000 people more attended, about 10,000 more people in seven years. [[Murmurs.]] Well, all right, but it would be better if from 2012 you hadn't begun to decrease the number of people cared for and lower the budget allocated to the dependency. And, look, you say what you want, dependency system, Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Imserso page: annual public expenditure, average per inhabitant in Galicia, year 2012, €88.75; year 2013, 91.92 –up–; year 2014, 88.67 –down again –; average Spain, 104.49. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, I don't know who gives you the data. So, you can justify what you want, the reality is that the budget that is prepared for the year 2016 – unless the Popular Group accepts the amendments that we are going to make from the Socialist Group – does not meet 10,000 dependents in conditions -- listen, in conditions; with traps, yes; of course, if you lower the ratio of money per person and what they give you is a home support service for two hours a month, because they are able to attend not 10,000 but 15,000 or 20,000. But we're not talking about that, are we? We're talking about treating people depending on what they deserve. [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about derogating internal guidelines, those that make people give up today to be cared for. And we're talking, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, about eliminating these abusive spores. Look, you've gone beyond the councillor. The counsellor acknowledged in the audience debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u238	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u239	...that the trees were insufferable. And, in fact, he did make a little tree-cut announcement at Alzheimer's, right, Counselor?, and in dementia. Right, didn't you make that cut? And why don't we cut the coke in the dependency set so that users can go to day centers and residences and don't have to leave them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u241	...because they can't handle that expense? That would be a change and not aesthetic and cosmetic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u242	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of education in the Italian countryside
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u243	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr Vázquez has the floor for his defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And good afternoon to all and to all. In the last debate of the interpellation that takes place with this motion, the Counsellor concluded, in his speech, that closing schools in rural areas was a fact caused only by the failure of children and children in rural areas; a fact directly related and the consequence of the demographic crisis affecting our rural environment. He ignored, from our point of view, a central element, at least one of the central elements of this debate, which is not another, precisely, that the role that school has as one of the fundamental actors in the vertebration of a people, in its own dynamization, in addition. The counsellor focused on his intervention – as he usually does – to make the Government of Greece a single dimension of the problem: the purely economical dimension and profitability; forgetting, from our point of view, variables of much greater importance. The counsellor – and he deliberately did – has forgotten another fundamental dimension of rural school as an essential asset of the institutional system of a particular territory, of a certain people. I want to mention at this point the definition that Prats clearly made in this regard in 2004, and he says textually: "The school is an element that is part of the institutional structure within a given territory...;" - in our case the rural one - "...is a more actor among the different actors that has the effectiveness and equity of the social group in which it is integrated. The disappearance of the school means the disappearance of the feeling of the people habitable and also of the rupture of the institutional system itself, and, consequently, of the organizational and identity dimension of the rural environment." I think Prats clearly explains what I tried to explain to Mr. Counsellor when he said that, when a school is closed, when a school is closed, if a final death sentence is signed for a people, for a village. There's a second dimension, Counselor, that this government also forgets often; I'm talking about school as a receiver of identities and emotions from a particular community, of a certain people. The school – and in addition to the school especially in the rural environment – is an institution where the whole community feels recognized and identified. In the towns and villages there is a feeling of belonging to the school. Families feel that their children and their daughters belong to the school, but they also feel that the school belongs to the whole community. It is therefore an absolutely reciprocal feeling of belonging. So, at school dance and build experiences, emotions and experiences of a collective character that are essential for the vertebration of a people, for the vertebration of a community. When you close a school, you pull out, you delete a living element, not just a service, but a living and essential element for a particular community. And so we reach a third dimension, which, from our point of view, is fundamental to justifying the defence of public education in rural areas. And it's the dimension of school as a configuration element of the social construction of rural life. I refer to the role of school as a link between traditions and innovation, culture and society, ethics and values of a people and a community, and so on, a long and so forth. In short, these three dimensions – and not just the economist, which is the one employed by the Government of Greece – make communities at no time hesitate to contribute with their time, with their money and with their efforts to defend and empower the school of their people. We have many examples of these situations. We have examples of families working together in the school arrangements of their neighborhood, their people. We have examples of families who don't hesitate to help when a particular material needs to be re-assembled or when any pedagogical activity has to be organized. The families, the educational community, feel the school like something alive and something yours. And it's precisely because of that triple dimension based on that trust and reciprocity between the school and the people, between the neighbors and the education system, so families defend the school of their villages and their people, and that's why they mobilize when there's an announcement of closing a school, especially in rural areas. It is because of this triple dimension, institutional, social and emotional and identity, so the rural education system is fundamental to the survival not only of education and school in rural areas, but of Galicia as a people, for the reasons I have just said. And these are the reasons why they ultimately justify the need to give a serious and determined boost to support the education system in rural areas. Today we hear the new Social Policy Advisor talk about a serious demographic problem in our country, and we announce measures that are vague notices in the form of patches to solve this situation. Well, I said it in the interpellation of the full past and I repeat it now. There's no solution to Galicia's demographic problem that doesn't happen to boost school in rural areas, the education system in rural areas, there isn't. And, regretting that, Counselor, there is no such support. There is no support, nor is that support less determined by the Government of Greece. You, Counselor, clearly said it in the full past: schools are broken because there are no children. And I say something that is totally contrary to what you say: there are no children because they close schools, there are no children because they close health centers, there are no children because they close farms and livestock farms, there are no children because they close doors in the countryside, doors that don't open again. We would have to ask ourselves: if the Government's intention is really to help, empower and encourage schools in rural areas, why do not preventive measures be activated before the final closure of a school? For the truth is that the Government remains closed by arms, crossed by arms, waiting for a school to reach that fateful number of five students; and when that minimum number is not met, it definitely closes. That's why we bring this initiative, because we believe that the Government's obligation is to anticipate at that moment, to that fateful point, and because we believe that you have an obligation to do preventive work in a matter which is fundamental, as I said at first, for the future of Galicia. Today, at the time of tabling the motion, this is the time when we have to make the proposals. The complaint has already been made, Counselor. Since his reign Mr. Feijóo has closed 500 classes in Galicia in rural areas, more than 100 schools have disappeared forever. They are now going to make the proposals to us, and they are very concrete and understandable. In no case will he serve the economic argument. The proposals we make can simply be made with political will. First of all, we believe that the constitution, which Parliament constitutes a parliamentary commission on the situation of education in rural areas, is essential, as it was said, with the participation of social agents, the associations of parents and mothers of students and the municipalities concerned to analyse exactly - it may be that AGE is not right, of course - what is the strict situation of our teaching in rural areas. Secondly, we propose in this motion to create an observatory, the Galego Observatory of Teaching in Rural, to follow up the specific and specific needs of rural education; to propose specific training actions for rural and teacher education; to create a documentary and material production centre for promoting research and innovation within rural education. Thirdly, we propose the establishment of a monitoring and control committee on the evolution of the enrolment of rural schools in danger of closure. We want the Government to act on measures before these centres close, and when the registration decreases and approaches that number, as I said, announcing the imminent closure, preventive measures are activated; measures to activate mechanisms for that centre to survive in the future. And, fourthly and finally, we propose to create the figure of the Rural Centres for Educational Research and Innovation, the CRIEs, which are covered by state legislation, existing in other communities, and which are fundamental centers for the dynamization of rural education, promoting the collaboration of the different communities and educational communities, as centres of documentation, as centres of innovation and, above all, to put into value the huge educational capital that brings together our rural education in Galicia. These are measures that the Government can take and we hope that in this case the majority group will take, if it is willing to defend education in the rural areas of Galicia. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u245	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u246	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. The asphyxiation of education in the field is understood as part of the dismantling of the rural environment as a whole because of the primacy of the economic criterion on the common good and because of the policies of austerity and the dislocation that this right-wing government manifests with the culture and forms of rural life: the failure of a specific plan appropriate to the rural environment that responds to its needs, within a global framework and with a treatment of positive discrimination for its socio-economic, cultural, landscape and demographic value; the accelerated closure of many unitarian schools, especially those with the possibility of maintaining an appropriate level of first-cycle primary student within a regrouped rural centre organization, with all the provision of teachers and resources that this brings with it; the organization – the regrouped rural centre – of poor creation and implementation but presented as a precautionized alternative in resources and with insufficient administrative and organizational support. Also, the undervalue of society and rural culture, as well as of their school, boosting the displacement of girls to school concentrations, and defending this alternative as the one of the highest quality. Moreover, the poor socio-work and economic recognition of rural teachers and the negative discrimination they suffer in many respects. A specific initial training plan is missing for the teacher of this medium, as there is a lack of opportunities for a permanent update. The serious deficiencies with which few schools are being maintained also affect: poor infrastructure, lack of support professors and specialists and lack of resources and updating of new technologies as well as transport. It is therefore necessary – therefore I will support this initiative before it is too late – to design an educational policy that responds to the diversity of the country and to the needs of a social, territorial, cultural and economic balance, addressing the vital needs of decent survival in the rural world to the accounts of the economists of gray men, which prioritizes the rights of children to receive educational attention during the early stages. This is why the Educational Administration should formulate and reformulate attention to the 0 to 6-year-old phase, fully integrating the 0 to 3 cycle into the educational system. Besides, this would have an advantage for the maintenance of the population in rural areas. But it would also be appropriate, in my opinion, to draw up a school map which includes all educational characteristics for each area or comarizes from the age of 0 years to adulthood and to provide – once again – with precise means and resources for schools containing a small number of students; i.e. exchange programmes, rotation of meetings, common activities and, in short, to dignify the work of professionals working in rural areas, teachers, recognizing their work rights and facilitating permanent training in order to ensure their training in the new models of intra- and inter-interesting organization and in the design of initial teacher training plans; a model that integrates a specific preparation to work in rural education. I repeat that we will support this initiative. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u247	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u248	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, very late. The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will certainly support this motion which calls for Parliament's attention to take basically four agreements: First of all, the need to study the situation of education in rural areas through the creation of a commission of study attended by all groups and entities that intervene and have to do with educational action in rural areas. Secondly, the need to propose education policies that are more appropriate to the educational needs of rural education through the creation of the Galego Observatory for Rural Education. Thirdly, another agreement on the need to set up a monitoring and control committee which can establish dynamisation measures to maintain rural education in quality parameters comparable to other parts of our country. And fourthly, the need to ensure a rural school development as an educational reference in our country by promoting research, collaboration and innovation among rural centres in the country. I understand and the Parliamentary Group of the BNG understands and supports these four measures because we are aware that, in the last two legislations of the People's Party, the cut in education is a total asphyxiation, a loss of quality of education itself and practically presupposes the asphyxiation and disappearance of a fundamental service as the service of compulsory education to maintain the right to equal opportunities in our rural environment. The BNG Parliamentary Group supports these four measures because we know that these continuous cuts – I repeat – are causing the deterioration of the educational quality of education globally and the total asphyxiation of education in our rural areas. We support these four measures because we have already launched initiatives together with the opposition groups in demand of the Galega Bureau of Education in Rural, which has been fading for many years that the situation of rural education makes it necessary to seek new alternatives for a new approach to rural education policy – educational policy that should be integrated into a global project of community development committed to the evolution of agriculture in all its dimensions –. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, I insist, in company - except the Parliamentary Group of the PP - we call for the establishment of a special non-permanent commission of the Greek Parliament for the study, diagnosis and preparation of proposals. Unfortunately, the People's Party voted against. Interestingly, on December 9, 2005, the People's Party itself said that the depopulation of rural Galicia for a long time has been a cause of constant concern for the whole of Galician society, and the repercussions of education make it necessary to study alternative proposals. People's Party, December 9, 2005. If this creation was needed at that time, ten years later, when more than 100 rural centers and more than 500 rural classes were closed, and when in rural areas we're looking at how almost half of the municipalities of Lugo and Ourense group their students into three and even more levels. So we understand that it should be much more urgent, at present, to take on, let us say, the creation of these four measures that call for the motion of the Left Galician Alternative Group. In view of the desertification of our rural areas, BNG believes that a new education policy for rural areas should be a priority which should be integrated into a global Community development project and should be the result of a serious and rigorous study of possible alternatives. A new school map will probably be needed, but surely it will be necessary to stop the closing of schools and to involve the entire educational community in rural areas. For that reason, we announce once again that we will vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u249	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u250	Very well, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all and welcome, Counselor; as always, you here fulfilling and giving pipe, is fine. Mr Vázquez, the Socialist Group understands the meaning of your initiative, so we want to tell you at the outset that we are going to support this which you present. But we will also take this opportunity to focus a little on the problem and its possible solutions, in the view of the Socialist Group. Today I want to remember, in this intervention, a person who did a lot and good for the dignity of rural school in Galicia; today I want to remember with admiration, in my intervention, Mr. Antonio Gandoy Díaz, the bicycle priest, a visionary and altruistic person who had set in motion that wonderful project of preschool in the house, which some have decided on their day to eliminate. An original childcare project, pioneer, vertebrate and a hundred percent Welsh, and that's why I never understood that work was not respected by those responsible for driving and designing our country's socio-educational policy. Having said that, I would also like to take this opportunity to tell you that the Socialist Group has acquired some time ago a partnership with the Galician Rural Education Bureau, which is composed of the following educational associations: Antonio Gandoy – before Pre-school at the House –, the unions Commissions, UGT, CIG, CSIF, SEG; Associazione Socio-Pedagógica Galician and Nova Escola Galga. And, on the basis of that commitment made on his day and for pure consistency, our vote will then be in favour of this initiative, Mr Vázquez. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody can escape that the deterioration of rural education is walking in parallel to the dismantling process that is suffering from the whole of rural life. The Socialist Group believes that this issue should be integrated into a more global rural development project in all its facets, and that is why we are always talking about the need for proper treatment of positive discrimination and planning beyond a single councillor, since education alone cannot address a problem like this. It would be a question, ladies and gentlemen, of bringing forward a global project based on rational occupation of the territory in order to achieve rural populations, and that is why we say that education cannot do it alone. It would basically be to achieve a social, territorial, educational, cultural and economic balance that would anticipate the vital need for decent survival of rural people and their people to the mere economic and short-term issues in order to achieve education with the same quality parameters as those enjoyed by people living in cities. And I'm going to put just a few examples in which the Socialist Group has been very insistent in recent times: we have to be able to eliminate the digital divide between the city centers and the rural centers; we have to be who, too, to prevent children from our rural schools from receiving their classes at levels that correspond to their age and course, and not to make completely anti-pedagogic groupings that clearly harm the service they receive. We must also be able to guarantee the same quality of education with the necessary staff and with decent educational equipment and we must be able to ensure that complementary services for school transport and dining also serve to achieve this important objective. By the way, Counsellor, we have two problems there in Vilagarcia and Cuntis, with the problem of companies that are providing catering to the dining rooms. Please do something about this. I'll get back to it. I also want to emphasize the fundamental: in view of the primacy of the short-term economic criterion that deepens in the territorial imbalance, the rights of children to receive educational attention in their midst must be given to them during the early stages as a way to dignify the rural world and avoid their depopulation. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no development in rural areas if there is no change in the attitudes of the entire population, and for this reason, recognition and respect, esteem and knowledge and values of rural areas should be present in some way in the entire educational activity of the country. A question that must affect not only the few unitary schools that are maintained, but also the schools, the ICC, and the institutes that have a student who mostly comes from the rural area. Without protecting our agricultural, forestry sector, without essential public services of education, health and care for older people, it will be very difficult to maintain the rural population. If we don't provide rural schools with the necessary human and material resources for quality education – including children's, primary and support staff specialists – it will be difficult for families to bet on living in rural areas. And if we do not facilitate the use of basic supplementary services for school transport and dining, it will also be very difficult for families to bet on staying in rural areas, because school transport plays a very important role in facilitating the school stage, not only in compulsory education, Counsellor, but also in undergraduate and vocational training, because it is the only means they have to be able to reach their reference institute, because there are no other ordinary public transport. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will therefore support this initiative which is being presented in this House today in defence of positive discrimination in favour of rural education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u251	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. Mr. Vázquez, I have agreed practically with 90% of your intervention, as you applied pedagogical criteria we fully agree with; which we no longer agree with your political position. I mean, I understand that you come here to discredit everything you do from an Education Council that is governed by the People's Party, and that you only value the principles that radiated from your ideology. But for that, we must have absolute majority and govern and have more than 37 Members –38 up and they can already apply it – but we are the ones we have the right to win, because the people decide that we are the ones who apply the policies that we have in our electoral programs. And neither the Government nor, of course, the Council forget absolutely nothing, and less rural education. And it's not partiality to come here to expose things from a point of view; it's important, and it's a lot, rural to this government, and it believes absolutely in rural education and rural education and the evidence: you can consult the Galician PDR 14/20 and you can see how rural development is fixed on the basis of very clear criteria between those that count, of course, the country's economic diversification, based on creating jobs around the country's own activities – but also others that are not – and based on a provision of services around communications, around health, around well-being and, of course, around education. Because we're not going to improve education, well-being, or employment, or absolutely nothing, if we're not able to do it by hand, to do it in a coordinated way, by combining all the dependent variables that, as you know, influence on this matter. And among these variables, there is education; and it's not the problem, as you say – no, no -- there are no schools because there are no children: these are going to close as there are no children, and not because there are children, by magic... Yes, yes, do, make yourself jump like dumb with ears; make yourself drunk that it's very respectful to be whipping the person who is in the gallery, it's his style, I know it, but it's not mine, make everyone who wants it soaked; but the crack is clear, we all know it. Look, which reality is?, which decreases the number of children, decreases; last year, 1.7 % less –508 less – and, with respect to the previous year, but if we take the previous year, 3.7% less. Of course, questions are as they are, they like them or they don't like them, and there's no more back in the sheet. And if you come with other data, contradict them. And then we have to tell whole truths, not half truths. It is true that the General Education Law gives the reason for what you said the other day in the appeal to the Counsellor; it is true that unitary schools, rural schools, have been abolished by the concentration of large schools, right? –the famous school groups – but what you didn't say, you found everything even talking about the inspectors – over verbality I'm not going to comment anymore – but you said something and you didn't add... but since 1982, the Galician Council, Galicia, has walked in the opposite direction, reopening most of the schools that had been closed. He didn't say that because he didn't care. Here they only talk about when they close but never about when they open, because it's not saying "net balance", no, no, and that here they open and close depending on whether or not there are students in the rural environment, and the demographic dispersal is what it is: we have more than 30,000 singular entities of population and we have to attend to them all. And that's what we do and, in addition, quality criteria, which is what we are dealing with in the rural world. What Mr Pombo said, indeed, is equal opportunities for them, and for that, quality must be introduced into the system. It was this Government who made the most of that ugly, false opinion, besides a cold rural school, a wet school, an isolated school – it is true – of difficult access to cultural resources; it was this Government that did the most, introducing quality. The counsellor spoke, he gave the data in his inquiry. We talked about Abalar, what you were against, we talked about multilingual centers, we talked about bilingual classes, we talked about E-DIXGAL – free platform too in rural areas – and we also spoke about the digital book – of what you were also against and what you are also in rural areas. And all of this adds quality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u253	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u254	And, how does rural education respond?, because by reaching international prizes – yes, yes! – reaching international prizes to projects generated in Galicia by the professionals themselves of rural education: international recognition by UNESCO or the European Education Agency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u255	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u256	It's over, Mr. President. And while you use that growing tone of criticism for criticism, without giving anything, more than politics, we can't agree with you. And with regard to the committees, Mr Vázquez, there was an attempt in Commission 5 at the beginning of legislation. AGE left this commission, as he left the boxes. Because he wasn't in the past legislation and couldn't provide it. So, just as it's worth your position, the other's worth nothing, and you understand that there are more positions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u257	End it, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u258	Finished, Mr. President, thanking the tone, because I liked it, and the pedagogic part. With what I can't agree with you and the political part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u259	Well, Mr Farínas, I'm going to ask you, if you can, to withdraw the expression with which you referred to a Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u260	I'll take it back, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u261	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. For the motion's own group, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u262	Well, the truth is, I'm having some difficulty replying to Mr Farínhas, because it was a bit diffused the intervention, if I may. Not to clarify, neither has it clarified the meaning of the vote, though it's easy to guess what it's going to be. As for the references to the rivets of this group like the donkeys, I feel a tremendous respect for the donkeys. It's an animal that provides a service, still today it serves an essential service to society, taking on hard work and, of course, a very efficient job... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u263	That expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u264	...more than many Members, by the way, than many Members. And I don't mean anyone in particular. Well, but Mr. Farinas has removed the comment and we're not going to take it wrong. On entering into the matter, Mr. Farínas, I explained in the full past that, in that balance between closing classes and schools and opening up new centers, it is evident that rural people are losing. Unless you're trying to convince me that in the last thirty years there's been a massive opening of rural centers, I guess you won't want to say that. And, of course, this interpellation takes place through a motion that speaks of teaching in rural areas, not the opening of units and schools in urban areas, which can also be debated, since many of these units that were opened were obviously agreed upon. But, well, that would be another debate, a debate that we, in addition, have already given. It's very curious that this group is frequently attacked saying that we're a group of no, that we don't make proposals. And today we also have proposals of an organisational nature: the creation of study committees on the situation of rural education, the creation of a German school observatory in rural areas, and, of course, the creation of rural educational research centres. Look, Mr. Fariñas, in Galicia, according to the Facts, there are 500 abandoned schools, abandoned public buildings. And contrary to what you could think, many are in very poor condition, but many are centers that consist of sports facilities, libraries, dining rooms... and are abandoned. That's also a poor expense of resources, they could be used to dynamize rural education by creating these rural educational research centers. For example, it would be enough to start by creating one in each province, the facilities are there, rural centres closed with perfect state appropriations – especially recently closed ones –. And it would allow Galicia to be, yes, reference in a matter, rural education, of what we should be vanguarded at the state level. I insist, it wouldn't cost too much, they exist in other communities and it would be very easy to put them to work. But not even that, three very simple elements to assume. It is true, from our point of view, that the People's Party has no intention, beyond rhetorical statements, to defend rural, and this is a demonstration of this, is a demonstration of that. Everything that's happening in our country, of course, has a lot to do with that policy of land burned down with school in the countryside. Because when you close a center -- and I told you last day and I repeat it today -- it's not just that you deprive yourself of a fundamental educational service, it's that you take away the opportunity that people can stay in the countryside despite the economic difficulties they have. So they assume their responsibility, I appreciate the support of the other groups, but I'm very afraid that this support will be sterile once again because of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u265	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the aid for housing loans
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u266	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u267	For the defence of the motion, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u268	Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We bring back to the plenary of this institution a subject that has already come four times on the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. At the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Commission was three times the second time. I understand it's a subject that you can see as a tedious and difficult question to understand, but I'm going to try to insist on it and explain it in case there's still someone left with some doubt, or some inability to understand what's going on. The subject of what we are talking about, which the last time it was discussed was through an interpellation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this House just 14 days ago, on October 27, it refers to the abolition of the extension of the renewal of the grant subsidies granted under the national housing plans 2002-2005, 2005-2008 and 2009-2012. I used to say before I understand that it's a lousy subject because of its difficulty, and it's a subject that neither wakes up the social sensitivity – for now – that it should, since this withdrawal of these aids, the suppression of these extensions, is masked by a fact that is coincident with time, which is the fact that the practice of all these loans from these families that acquired their home based on these public aids did so through contracts, from mortgages, with a variable interest referred to the euribor. And the euribor, ladies and gentlemen, is at 0.14% today. And it also coincides with the deletion of ground clauses. In such a way that, at many times, even families who lose this subsidy, an amount of 0.14% to an amount of EUR 80,000 means to pay 10 euros per month of interest. That's why, today on this subject, there may not be sensitivity even if there should be. But, ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that as a legal imperative, as a result of these national housing plans, all those who were benefited from these aid had to assume a number of commitments or obligations. One very important, for the purposes of what we're dealing with, is that the credit had to be subscribed for a minimum period of twenty-five years; I repeat, a minimum period of twenty-five years. And secondly, that there were such depreciation limitations that, for example, a loan of EUR 90,000 in 10 years, at most, could amortize 8,000; and if more than 8,000 is amortized, it is at risk of losing the aid and subsidies granted so far. One of the conditions of these aid, ladies and gentlemen, is that these aid was granted for periods of five years, and they were automatically extended for five more years, for periods of five years, whenever the family units continued to meet the economic requirements. In the regulation itself, it is established that this five-year concession is extendable for periods of equal duration, for the sole purpose, as indicated in the above-mentioned housing plans, to be updated in relation to the economic variations produced in the family unit would benefit from aid. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2012, through a decree, Decree 20/2012, in its article 35, the Government of the nation decided to abolish all aid that was in the processing period, and hence no longer granted. Ladies and gentlemen, the true expectation – because this would be a great challenge for families – but the real expectation is that later on, through an interpretative circular of the Ministry of Development, it is apparently subscribed by a general direction of this Ministry of Development but not signed by anyone, this abolition applies not only to the National Plan 2009-2012, as was said in the decree, but to all the previous ones and also to the extensions of the aid already granted. It is such a disaster and so overrun and so lack of legal basis this action that the Government of the People's Party itself has been obliged, through the Popular Parliamentary Group, to implement an amendment to a different law, which was the Law on the flexibility of the rental market – therefore, it was not a law of acquiring housing – by means of a second additional provision which, in some way, gives legal protection to all these measures. In other words, the second additional provision provides that no new aid will be granted and provides that the aid granted in the previous plans will not be extended. From that point on, and beyond the problem that arises, which is a genuine violation of constitutional law, a genuine legal scourge, which is that the laws have no retroactive effects but on those issues that are favourable to the citizen himself, that basic principle which is the irretroactivity of the norm and which is completely violated, apart from all this, a problem arises, gentlemen, that will have grave transcendence for the future. Today we're talking here and now with a 0.14% euribor, but, ladies and gentlemen, six years ago the euribor was at 4%, and within six years, how will the euribor be? We don't know. And within ten, how will the euribor be? We don't know, we don't even know how the euribor will be in a year. What we do know, ladies and gentlemen, is that a loan of €90,000 to €0.14% pays 10 euros per month of interest, but a credit of €90,000 to €4% or 5% or 6% would pay €450 or 300 per month to interest. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about families with little economic resources. We took into account that in the national housing plans 2002-2005 and 2005-2008, the income top per family unit was twice and half the IPREM; that is, we can be talking about 1,500 euros a month. It is true that this peak in Plan 2009-2012 has been raised four times the IPREM, but most of the families we are talking about are families with annual incomes of less than 15,000 euros, and these families are those that are being affected and those that can be seriously damaged at a given time when there is a rise in interest rates. Then there will surely be many who are surprised. We, ladies and gentlemen, have to say that our group has brought this Parliament seven times, four times this plenary session and three times the corresponding committee, this problem. Therefore, the proposal that we bring here is that "the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to first authorize all the requested extensions of the aid for the grant of loans granted to the landfill of the national housing plans 2002-2005, 2005-2008 and 2009-2012, formulated from 5 June 2013, which comply with the requirements set out in those plans." Second, that "the Galician Council and the Galician Parliament ask the Government of Spain to leave without effect the second additional provision of Law 4/2013, of 4 June, of measures for the flexibility and promotion of the housing rental market, as well as of Article 35 of Royal Decree/2012, as regards aid previously granted and to comply with the obligations arising from those plans". Thirdly, we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that "subsidiarily to the former, as long as this problem is not solved by the absolute majority of the People's Party in the State Parliament, by the Council of Galicia, as the administration which holds the powers in the field of housing, sole administration and administration which has dealt with these aids subsidiaryly, if you take charge of these aid without prejudice to their impact on the General Administration of the State". For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u269	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u270	In 2012 – as the Socialist spokesman said – the Government of the People's Party in solo approved the Royal Decree 20/2012, which pompopulously entitled "measures to guarantee budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness", in which the grant subsidies for loans covered by the State Housing Plan 2009-2012 were abolished. This right is enshrined in a series of rules that, since 2010, state governments have moved forward to favour the interests of capital in a crisis from which business and finance have benefited, while popular classes have become impoverished. We remember that this is the same decree in which the extra December 2012 payment is abolished for civil service staff, where the days of free will and private affairs were reduced, and in which the VAT went up, or in which it reduced to 30% the aid to youth for their emancipation. The financial aid that this motion deals with was to facilitate the payment of capital amortisation of mortgage loans and their interests. By being limited to persons holding public promotion housing, welcomed to the State Housing Plan, the conditions laid down by a later decree – something which, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party said, goes against the law itself, which ensures that laws cannot be retroactively applied unless they are beneficial to the person; in this case it is seriously harmful, however, applied retroactivity. This has affected and will affect thousands of Galician families who, by losing their help and the right to extension, have seen their spending in mortgages on an average of between 30% and 60%; because, when a person or family decides to buy a housing, they account for their salary and aid to those they count; if any of these assumptions – wage or aid – go down, it is very likely that one cannot cope with the payment of the mortgage and will therefore arrive at the feared drawdown.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u271	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u272	We're in a clear paydown situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u273	Quiet, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u274	...this paydown union and withdrawal of aid was the one that condemned and is responsible for the loss of the usual housing of many families. Therefore, the change in the conditions of aid in access to habitual housing gives evidence of a policy that does not think of persons or their constitutional rights, remaining dependent on the economic interests of financial power. In general, it is established that no more than 30% of the living income or a lower percentage of 15% when family income is less than the minimum inter-professional wage. That is why the abolition of aid has turned the payment of housing into something insumable for many families who have been expelled from their homes because of an unfair and illegal measure – however much they have found in a law –. That's why you should never confuse legality with justice. The problem of access to housing is aggravated by the lack of legal guarantees for those people who buy a housing. The Ministry of Development will have to grant aid for mortgage loans to 1,136 housing owners who were denied, in July 2012 and July 2013, for an interpretative criterion that was subsequently amended. The Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute has again denied 649 applications rejected in that period because it failed to meet the requirements of the Plan de Vivenda. In principle, the deadline for the refusal to take place between 13 July 2012 and 4 June 2013 is the fulfilment of the requirements laid down by the housing plans in accordance with those initially granted the aid. As for point two of the motion, I would include Article 36.2 on basic emancipation income, which states that the beneficiaries whose help has been extinguished cannot resume their right by believing that the current non-compliance with the requirements required for their recognition, although they did not previously exhaust the maximum period. Similarly, it states that they will not have the right to receive aid from those applications which, having submitted before 31 December 2011, have not obtained a favourable resolution or have not been communicated to the Ministry of Development prior to the entry into force of the Royal Decree. So I'm going to give my support to this motion and I hope that it will be taken into account and accepted my amendment because it's also eliminating rights for the most disadvantaged social classes and youth. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u276	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, the BNG Parliamentary Group will support these three points of its motion. We have already supported these points more than three times in this Parliament and we understand that it is fair to defend them. First of all, because the legal security of many – I would say – many Greeks depend on these three points; secondly, because all the Greeks – those thousands who will lose this right – have the right to a decent housing; and thirdly, because they defend the rights of thousands of Galicians and Greeks who have granted loans for the 2002-2005, 2005-2008, 2009-2012 plans and have been abolished by a decision on housing policy of the People's Party. In Royal Decree Law 20/2012, in Article 35, the aid for the grant of loans of the State Plan 2009-2012 is deleted. Following Law 4/2013 – which is curiously called "measures of flexibility and promotion of the housing rental market", it turns out that the second additional says: "renewals or extensions are deleted", even those that were granted in accordance with the rules laid down in the different plans. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG has repeatedly denounced the tremendous injustice to which many Greeks and many Greeks have been subjected, which, because of their economic situation, meet strict conditions laid down in the housing plans in order to be able to opt for these aid – as Mr Bugallo explained – thousands of families in our country's provinces, thousands of families who will be in trouble to cope with mortgage credits; thousands of families. Today, the platforms of mortgage-affected, Stop Defilations were at the door, reporting the dramatic situation in which so many families, many of them that can neither eat; for, surely, part of these families, with this flexibility of the People's Party to foster rent, will unfortunately pass on to enlarge these families who have been fighting for so long as they have been fighting for an elementary right, such as the right to housing. Since 2012 they have been deprived of the legal aid granted to many families, when we are living in a time of terrible crisis, when thousands of Greeks and Greeks have seen their wages cut, when 200,000 are unemployed and when more than 100,000 do not charge a penny of euro, it turns out that we are faced with this situation. I therefore reiterate, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, our support, from the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, to the withdrawal of the additional second of Law 4/2013; I reiterate our support for the withdrawal of Article 35 of the Royal Decree 20/2012; I reiterate our claim to the Council of Galicia to assume its competences and guarantee obligations arising from the housing plans. On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, I appeal to this Parliament to authorize the extension of the aid requested and granted in accordance with the housing plans between 2002 and 2012, which are legally granted. And the Parliamentary Group of the BNG from the very first moment urged the Government of Galicia to urge the Ministry of Development to comply with the current legislation, we urge the Board to defend Greeks and Greeks who have acquired rights and that the Government of the State deny them a right as elementary as the right to enjoy a decent housing. For all this, Mr Bugallo, count on the affirmative vote of the BNG Parliamentary Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u277	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia, has the word Mr. Antón Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u278	Good afternoon. Well, I still remember a paragraph of the Budgets Act, when I tried to explain how the Government of the United States will have enough income to be able to cope with these 2016 budgets, and I was talking about that an important part of them depends on how well taxes transferred to the Council of Galicia work; and these taxes, said the memory –cito –, "depending on the functioning of the housing market." In the memoirs of the budgets to Junta de Galicia, the Business Council, trusts that in 2016 the housing market works well and therefore increases the value of housing, increases the taxable base so that we can have sufficient income depending on the taxes of documented heritage transmissions and legal acts and succession taxes; and adds that one of the factors that will influence the proper functioning of the housing market is that there is easy credit. For in that paragraph, which may not seem important, it is again repeated – in a paragraph – the model of the real estate bubble, we return to it: as soon as there is easy credit, since people – even within the model there are low wages – have to be indebted to access to a real estate housing because the rental market in this country does not work, they will be indebted until the real estate bubble explodes again. Because you haven't noticed what happened in this country a few years ago; because, according to the People's Party, you're not responsible for the inflation of real estate bubbles in this country. In those so-called happy years, after Mr. Aznar passed a Land Law in 1997 and mortgage valuations – which was one of the great leaders of the real estate bubble, of inflation and that no one had taken action until he exploded – in the middle of it, there were many people injured but there are still people left without the right to live. And this step of withdrawal with retroactivity of the subsidization of loans for persons entering the official shelter is an indignity, it is an indignity! It is the way in which the People's Party dropped the costs of the so-called crisis in the below; and, instead, those who caused the crisis – the banks and the large real estate – go away from rosettes, those are already recovered. Today we heard the Social Policy Adviser: "We'll try to get the recovery to all the world"; those who have already arrived are the bank managers, the managers of the big companies, those. And here it turns out that it has to be repeated that the fact is that there are some people who decide to buy an official shelter – because if they are offered a loan subsidy requirement – and they are told that, at the age of five, if they continue to have the same economic conditions as personal remunerations, if they're going to renew them, and those people are going to buy a housing because they count on these incomes, and what this government does is to apply for retroactivity, and those people when it's going to renew these aids – a staff member who access these aids because they're not over 2.5 % of the minimum interprofessional salary at that time, tell them what kind of people we're talking about – to those people when they're going to ask the Galician Board to tell them that they're not, the Galician Junta de Galicia tells them not. Because here the People's Party will come and throw balloons out, say that here the Union has nothing to do, that it's not responsible for anything. The People's Party makes decisions in the state government, which comes here to the spokesperson for the People's Party and says it did the People's Party to combat this injustice. What did they do? What did the People's Party do to fight this? Let it go, you've let it go. And, of course, the excuse they're going to say is that the board can't afford to pay these people the loan subsidies, it can't; we're for something else, to pay the video clips to Enrique Churches and other things, so that's what we are. To pay him a fair question, Junta lets go because it's a waste for you. That's how you solved the criticism. And in housing policy they're still the same. All you care about is the problem of the visibility of a problem that can cause a deterioration in the electoral perspective, the real problem of people doesn't matter because there's also a counterposition of interests here: there are people who want to have a home to live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u279	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u280	...and there are other people who want the housing to revalue year after year to do business with the housing. And you, in this counterinterest, are the ones who do business with the housing. So of course, and so they go on and they'll keep selling here, having...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u282	...-it's over now-success in housing policies. Realoxa program: 43 realos while in that period more than 2,000 people went to the street. 43 realos, that's data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u283	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Group, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, when you land and put your feet on the ground and if you stop doing demagogy, we can debate and talk. When one throws the blame of the real estate bubble to Aznar's law, which was not influenced by Galicia because the sale of housing in Barreiros, in Foz, in Coruña, in Vigo or elsewhere, don't worry that it wasn't the law of housing, the law of Aznar's soil, but that it was the non-adaptation of the general plans of these municipalities, governed most by the progressive left-wings, who haven't adapted to the Law of Galicia soil – including Lugo's law, it's been 17 years old. Yes, but that's what there is, Mr. Sanchez. [[Murmurs.]] Get down, put your feet on the ground and don't talk about demagogy. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Bugallo... [[Murmurs.]] He shouldn't have come as long as he's got, which seems to be unhappy. Mr. Bugallo, I appreciate your sincerity, really. First of all, I wanted to tell you the three points you raised here. We must urge the German Government from Parliament to allow the Union to grant all the extensions requested in the subsidies. Hey, are you telling the officials to report against the law? That's what you're proposing here, huh? We will certainly not support it, because the officials will have to comply with it, and I am convinced that they will do so and report it in accordance with the law. Secondly, ask the Government of Spain; totally according to you. Yes, and so it was done and so we have an initiative that was approved in this Parliament with the votes against or the abstention of opposition groups who voted against – on the seventh day of the last year, July, exactly – where we demanded and so it was done with the Government of the State and, in fact, changed the interpretative criterion of article 35 of the Royal Decree Law 20/2012. You know it perfectly well. We want more?, it may be and we can match; now, it can't say it hasn't been done. And then Junta assumes what the state has to pay for. Look, it's a competition to pay interest subsidies, it's a single and exclusive jurisdiction of the State. So it appears, and so it appears collected in decrees, even signed by the Socialist Government. So neither the Union nor, as we know, any autonomous community in Spain is doing this. What it does to Junta, and it will continue to do and do, was to help those families that have the most problems, yes, so that they can pay those interests and that no kind of rejection of this kind of housing – which has not been carried out, that we have knowledge – can happen. And Mr. Bugallo said – so he said he was grateful for his sincerity – and he was talking about the problems that the credits were granted, the 20-five-year loans with a series of limitations, etc., etc. See, these loans are fined according to regulations and royal decrees – one of them on 801/2005, July 2005, governed the Socialist Party in the state; another, Decree 2066/2008 of December 12, governed the Socialist Party in the state, such a ZP, do you remember that they announced it? because that was the one who governed it. And the more you say today that sensitivity is lower because, in fact – and you're right – the euribor right now is 0.14% – other fellows criticised it too –, the euribor is 0.14% – six years ago was 4%, I'd say even something else – and, of course, if the euribor goes back to life. And what's going to happen in a year or six? I tell you very easily, Mr. Bugallo, you answered yourself: six years ago the Socialist Party in Spain - more well out of control - was ruling, the risk premium was 500 points, the euribor was at four and peak percent, at four and peak percent! –that we paid everyone we had a mortgage –; today the risk premium is around 100 points, the Euribor is at 0.14%, actually, and that means they benefit not only people or families who have official protection housing credits, but all Spaniards who need a mortgage. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was criticized here that they were under the euribor and that it was easy to get a mortgage, a credit. I think what's complicated is paying for strong interests. And you said, how will it be in a year? I'm telling you very easily: if you continue to rule the People's Party from December 20 onwards, you will continue to be like up to 0.14%, and the risk premium possibly below 100 points; if other groups, headed by such a Pedro Sánchez, you may already be reassured that you are going to be 500 points and will be back to 4%. [[Murmurs.]] You answered yourself. [[Applause]] And look, there's a very clear subject... yes, there's a very clear topic. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, that's data, that's data and they're there. Yes, yes, a Mariano managed to make the euribor 0,14% and the risk premium is as it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u285	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u286	Others didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u287	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u288	You, whatever you want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, there's a data, there's a data that can't be denied: January 2011, direct shopping aids... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u289	Go finish, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u290	I'd like to finish, if I could.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u291	Go finish, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u292	What I would like to remind all the honourable ladies, is that in January 2011 – January 2011 – the Socialist Party ruled Spain, Mr Pedro Sánchez was a deputy and the Town Hall of Santiago was governed by the PSOE, by Mr Bugallo, that of Vigo by Mr Abel Caballero, ruled by the Socialist Party, and so on the rest of the cities of Galicia;...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u293	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u294	...PSOE and sometimes in coalition with BNG. Direct tips of up to 12,000 euros that were repeated and there was not a single voice of these parties or mayors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u296	...that they said against that, they all voted in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u297	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u298	...and they applauded. It was 12,000 euros – finished, Madam President – that were dedicated directly to the depreciation of the appropriations. A credit of 62,000 would remain at 50,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u300	And logically, I wouldn't have to pay the interest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u301	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u302	...to the greater of these 12,000 euros, which would be so many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u304	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support of the other parliamentary groups of the opposition, of course, which is also common every time this issue has been discussed in this plenary. I also want to say that we accept the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which, if it does not come into exactly the subject which we are dealing with today, is collateral to that issue and is consistent with its objectives. And then I'll focus on Mr. Castineira. Mr. Castineira, looking at you, I'm telling you: less bad than we have Portugal left. If it's not enough, at last... it's less bad that we're left in Portugal, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the extreme sensitivity of the People's Party in this matter is shown in two very concrete facts: 43 families in three years against 7,000 who lost their homes in Galicia; and in another fact, that are the 200,000 euros that set up the 2016 budget for families affected by evictions – that is, 100 euros for each family –. Mr. Castineira, look, you're talking about the abolition of aid up to a maximum of EUR 12,000 in 2011 and probably partly right; but, look, the aid has been eliminated from there, none of those who were granted before have been denied it and none of those who charged it have been returned the money. This is a substantial difference, because here the aid granted to the development of the National Housing Plan, with automatic extension commitments every 5 years – because in 25 years the conditions of a family can change substantially – simply checking that it continues to meet the requirements, suddenly changing. And indeed, a mortgage of 4% of 90,000 euros is 3,600 interest, 300 euros a month. The problem is with mortgages the variable interest. While the Euribor follows 0.14 or 0.30, because, in fact, the situation is more or less controlled, because the subsidy is one and a half points to three points of average interest – and logically, with 0.14 or even the point and half cannot be applied. But in 25 years, a lot of things of all kinds will happen. And do you know what depends on how much the euribor is, not on Mr. Mariano Rajoy, it depends on the European Central Bank, which has the money at 0.05%. In short, Mr. Castineira and the People's Party, the great contribution of the PP was to validate in Congress of Deputies Decree 20/2012, the great contribution of the People's Party including the Galician People's Party was to pass in the Senate and Congress Law 4/2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u305	Finish it, Mr Bugallo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u306	And Galicia and Junta must take responsibility for housing policy because it is exclusive competition, the law of the housing of which you have been rapporteur, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u307	Thank you very much. We passed the motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u308	Motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Gallego Calvar, to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in matters of dependence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u309	We voted on the motion from the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left, on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Vázquez, to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. by the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of middle education in the rural region of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u310	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Sánchez Bugallo, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group as an amendment to addendum. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to subsidies for housing loans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u311	We continue with the development of the agenda with point 5 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Maria Carmen Gallego Calvar and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the investment of European funds for the construction of the Centre for the Interpretation of Natural Parks of Galicia, as well as the restoration and conservation of the mine border area
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u312	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u313	You have the floor, for your formulation, Ms. Noela Blanco Rodríguez, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u314	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, almost evening. Ladies and gentlemen, the project of the Galician Natural Park Interpretation Centre, located in Ourense, began its walk in 2007. It is a project created and promoted by the Bipartisan Government Environmental Council with a clear objective: to be an instrument of environmental awareness to re-evaluate our natural spaces, and to bring to society the importance of protection figures such as the Natura 2000 Network. It was therefore a project that intended, for the first time in Galicia and together, to value habitats, ecosystems and singularities of all kinds that coexist in these protected territories; and also all the information exists on the most sensitive spaces of the Greek nature. Months after this presentation, the Council of Ourense makes available some land, some land whose assignment ends in August 2008; some land that is located in a special area of the city of Ourense, an area of great thermal wealth. A partnership agreement between the Galician Union and the Ministry of the Environment was signed in 2009. The Ministry of the Environment of the Government of Mr Zapatero, Mr Castineiras – although not now – not ZP – to see if we talk to a little bit of respect. And the process of requesting funding from the European Union, of 7 million Feder funds, of Feder funds from the 2009-2013 programme period, which were jointly managed... – yes, Mr. Castineiras, with a little respect –, which were jointly managed through the Council of Galicia and the Ministry of the Environment. [[Murmurs.]] This is, therefore, a draft consensus, a draft consensus between the administrations of all areas, the local, the autonomous, the state and also the European, since, as I said to them, funding comes from funds from the European Union. And a good example of the unanimous support that this project then woke up, and to refresh the memory a little, it is worth recalling the words of that mayor of Ourense, Mr. Novoa, who is a Member of this House today. On the day that this project was presented to the public, to the social and political sectors of the city, Mr. Novoa said: "This project is spectacular and constitutes a very important step forward for the whole city and province, and so I want to congratulate the Council of Galicia on this initiative." A consensus that breaks the People's Party when it reaches institutions, a consensus that breaks when it reaches the self-government and the state government. For in November 2011 there was a paralysing of this work, a paralysing of the lack of the renewal of the agreement between the Galician Union and the Ministry of the Environment. And since then, the risk of losing an investment of more than 7 million euros from European funds with a finalist character and endangering a dynamizing project of the thermal bank, the work continues to stop and has not been given by the Galician board any clear response or why this situation. For those who don't know him, this was the initial project, this was the two-party government project, a project that, as I told them, not only tried to collect the natural singularity of our entire autonomous community, but it was conceived as an energy-efficient infrastructure and of course with maximum use of renewable energy. This one you see here, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of the policies of the People's Party. This is the result of the Autonomous Government and the State Government of the People's Party, a skeleton of cement, a skeleton of cement full of weeds; a skeleton of cement full of weeds that represents not only the failure and dissipation of a project, it is a symbol of what is the environmental policy of this government and what is the management of the European funds of this government. A building in ruins, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a building that falls because nobody keeps it and because nobody builds it every day. [[Applause]] So, this building located in a province, the one in Ourense, from which we feel tremendously proud of the natural wealth that it has, with two reserves of the biosphere, with ten areas of Community interest, with three natural monuments and half of the natural parks of the Autonomous Community of Wales; a province especially punished by these environmental policies, because the best example is the Xures Natural Park, which, because it does not have, has no plans for specific fires for an area of great natural wealth... that is not to say of the state in which our rivers find themselves, which either by the green industries or by the works of the AVE are also being affected by a policy that is negligible of this government. This immobilization and contempt for this project is threatening a project that was intended to be the epicenter of placement in the value of our natural spaces, with a wasted budget, more than 2 million euros executed, that if the work is not completed, they will have to be assumed by the Autonomic Administration, with the loss of European subsidy and the possible responsibilities that will arise in the courts as far as the assignment of land is concerned. These four years have suggested no explanation, lies, excuses, something that Mr. Losada calls advertising and propaganda; advertising and propaganda like that of this Board of Deputies on November 22, 2012, in which collaboration with the Ministry of the Environment was renewed with an agreement of EUR 4.8 million. An advertising and propaganda that always ends up turning into other symbols of the People's Party, into outstanding pledges. Now they're not hiding, this project has disappeared from the budgets of the Galician Union. It's a little more than a month and a half to finish Feder's eligibility period – as you know – on December 31st. And at this moment the Union continues to keep silent with this theme and to look elsewhere. This is not the only case of their mismanagement in the case of European affairs, of European aid, because in view of the data provided by the Ministry, and so we have denounced the Socialists on a number of occasions, it is likely that the Galician Union will lose, for its mismanagement, about 300 million euros of Community aid. In the context of the crisis we are suffering and taking into account the state of deterioration in our natural spaces, someone is likely to doubt the importance and necessity of this installation. But this group, the Socialist Group, considers that, given that the work is funded 100 per cent by European funds and in the face of the need for a true environmental education policy that puts in place our natural wealth, our six natural parks, more than 12 per cent of the territory of Greece protected by the Natura 2000 Network, and that it injects into our generations and future generations this necessary awareness that contributes to changing a model that has been manifestly unsustainable, this PNL aims and is an opportunity to regain that consensus, that consensus of the first moments, so that the precise measures are taken and that the funds devoted to this natural park interpretation centre are implemented, and that this area of the mine river that suffers from serious affection. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the image that the thousands of tourists who join the banks of the Mine attracted by the thermal wealth of the city of Ourense see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u315	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u316	This is not the image that the oransansans and the orensans deserve to find when they pass by their river. This disarmment by the institutions, ladies and gentlemen, neither Ourense nor its natural spaces. That's why I ask you today for your support for this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the People's Parliamentary Group Mr. Freire Abeijón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u318	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, the slogan "ZP" didn't create it by the People's Party, I think it was created by the Socialist Party in an election campaign. And now it's strange that they're upset to use that slogan. [[Applause]] The Territorial Environment and Planning Council is assessing the different alternatives possible to find a solution to the situation of the Galician natural park interpretation centre projected in Ourense. The Council held meetings and contacts with the Ministry to address possible solutions to the situation of the interpretation centre, and the steps to take in this direction are geared towards finding a viable technical solution. However, it should be remembered that the PSOE, when it designed this work in 2008 – which governed both in the Union, through the Bipartite, as well as in the Central Government and the Council of Ourense – had to bear in mind that this project was born with a problem, a serious basic problem, which is that this construction was projected in an area declared inundable; a circumstance that severely complicated the development of this project and these works. At least it is interesting that those who did not foresee this situation are the same as they are now wondering about their future through this parliamentary initiative. The project of this interpretation center was conceived at a time when the PSOE ruled in Spain, Galicia and Ourense; therefore, they do not try to circumvent their responsibility. And it was designed in an area near the banks of the Mine River, considered to be inundable by the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. And yet no land is available until mid-2010, the year in which the expenditure is monitored, and bearing in mind that in 2011 a project modification is made and the execution extended until 2014. The work was co-financed by the central government and the 80% EAFRD funds, and they didn't run all the funds because the work was unfinished at the end of their vigil. According to estimates made by the Galician Union, in order to ensure the effective construction of this interpretation center designed on flood land, a series of works must be carried out that would significantly increase the final cost of the project. So this is a project that requires the involvement of both the Central Government and the Galician Union as well as the Council of Ourense itself. This three-party agreement was signed on 30 July 2008 and was in force until the end of 2011. At first, the Central Government committed itself to investing 7 million euros and the Galician Union a total of 1 million and a half euros. The agreement was not implemented within its period of review and only 2.1 million euros were certified. In 2012 the Council of the Union authorizes a new agreement with the Central Government for the completion of the works and the putting into operation of this service. Subsequently, in 2014 the Galician Union maintains a series of meetings – some of which are called Tragsa and the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation itself – in order to resume the work and propose solutions to the main existing problem, such as the floodability of cellars. In addition, several meetings were held between the Directorate-General for Conservation of Nature and the Ministry itself to seek an appropriate technical solution. Work to find a viable solution to finish this investment. And that's why the People's Group is proposing to this parliament the amendment that you have a copy of, which literally says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to seek a viable technical solution to the mine border area where the Galician Natural Park Interpretation Centre is located and evaluate a proposal for the future for this installation." You are in your hands to admit this amendment, you are in your hands to seek a consensus to achieve a viable technical solution and make it possible for that installation to be completed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u319	Thank you, Mr. Freire. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u320	Well, I've already voted in favour of this Socialist Party initiative. In relation to it, I want to start by saying that the People's Party seems to have changed its mind several times about Galician Natural Park Interpretation Center, so it's been drafting a new project for three years. The thing's slow, I don't know if it's safe, but it's slow. In particular, the People's Party seems to change its mind with each election call, so the Government must explain in what situation the convention signed in 2008 is in and when it will resume the works. It seems that culture, the environment, education and the People's Party can't get married well. The lack of support for performing arts, museums, libraries, education, language, conservation of the environment is a constant in their policies at both the state and the national level. Hence, the paralysing of the interpretation centre, where exhibition, museum and information functions were provided, making it a reference for environmental disclosure in which environmental-related courses and congresses were organized. In May this same year, the Ministry of the Environment announced that it had already reached an agreement with the Council and with the Board to complete the work, that it would undergo a change of use to open facilities related to the environment but more ambitious. Since then, nothing is known about the completion of the project and its change of use. A abandonment that has no explanation, since it puts at risk the European subsidy granted for the construction of it, a determination that, as always, will not have political leaders; a abandonment that the Union itself forbids and sanctions in the Land Law Project in processing; a abandonment that demonstrates once again the mismanagement that the People's Party's Union makes of the public money and the aid received from Europe; a abandonment that contrasts with all propaganda... [[Murmurs.]] There's a zumba, zumba, zumba, unbearable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u321	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u322	I understand we're all tired, but please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u323	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u324	A abandonment that demonstrates once again the mismanagement that the People's Party's Union makes of the public money and aid received from Europe; a abandonment that contrasts with all the widespread propaganda during the municipal elections around the thermal capital in which Ourense would become. Election advertising attempting to cover the lack of investments in the province of Oresa, which is turning it into a large third-class hieriac, lack of services and a future. More tragic is the history of the School of Nature of the Gandaras de Budiño, in the Pontevés do Porriño municipality, built with more than 300,000 euros from Brussels. He never opened. Over the years, his abandonment made him squirm. In 2013 a man who was looking for trash among the ruins died when one of the walls of the real estate collapsed. Brussels even opened a file asking for explanations to clarify where the funds had been stopped. The two cases are examples of about one hundred interpretation centers, which, according to a doctor's research in education science at the University of Araceli Serantes, were closed in 2014 or under construction in the community. All over Galicia, according to the study, there are a total of 188 centres of this kind, 70% of those who obtained funds from the European Union. These are examples of these centres abandoned to Casa da Castaña, in the municipality of Rios, the School of Nature of San Juan de Río, the Ecomuseo de Cervo, in the Navy, the Centre of Interpretation of the Castle, in the Ball, or the Center of Interpretation of the Natural Park of Winterfell, which has never been built. Missed opportunities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u325	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u326	...bad use of European funds, electoralism, desire, abandonment and incompetence. I will vote in favour of this initiative, and I hope that the People's Party will also support it and, in addition, carry it forward. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u327	Thank you very much. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u328	Very good night. Today we're talking here about a building, and I'm actually, when I was preparing this intervention, more like what I thought was on the topics. And I think that topics are always deformative, but on certain occasions we also see how topics fit in, in this case in cement, and reproduce a reality that we certainly believe we should give for some larger background reflection. Because we're certainly talking about one of these topics today, which says that our country is full of many buildings, many of them unfinished, many of them empty, and that you don't know very well what function you're going to perform. Well, as it was said here and teaching through that photograph, we see a metaphor I think of a bad conception, firstly, of many of the European aids, of a bad conception of the management of many of these funds. Because today we're talking about a macro building that would cost around 8 million euros, which, as they tell us – and I also believe that there has to be a real problem there – there's also a problem with the location, there's an important flood problem that's going to assume that in the end there's going to be a lot more money and a lot more resources in a macro building that's been paralysed for four years, it's now going to make four years paralyzed, becoming one of those spaces that certainly can't be kept in that situation. Because indeed, a skeleton of a macro-building next to a river in an area that is also a walking area, one of the most important tourist and social attractions in Ourense, as is all that has to do with thermal tourism, because of course it is a matter to which a solution must be given and which cannot be kept sine die; above all because, if it were a particular person who is running that work, surely already passed on in this case any option that should be the execution of that building, because it would have sanctions on the part of the Administration for not complying with the lawfulness of urbanism. And we, therefore, understand that there must be a solution to that center. But we also understand that it is a bit interesting that you're going to spend around about 9 million euros at least at the end of an infrastructure that costs much more than what is being invested in Galician natural parks, and therefore you'll probably have to think at this moment whether that kind of work, if that kind of performances, are needed. Because it's not going to be that we keep feeding centers of great characteristics, of great dimensions, for those who then, in the end, don't have enough resources to keep them. I was talking here about the partner of the Joint Group of a study by the University of Coruña that says that there are 188 interpretation centers in Galicia, and that, from these centers, a very important part was built with European funds. Because there was a requirement in the European funds, and it was that it was easier to access those resources if there were really interpretation centres. But it's just, when these kind of centers were built, they didn't think about maintenance, staff, services, and many of them are abandoned. I mean, there's a management from the point of view of public funds, even from the occupation of the territory -- in this case in a sensitive area, because it's in an area that's a river bank as important as the Mine River -- and maybe we need to start thinking about whether we really have to go in that direction, and if it makes sense to spend more on buildings to teach natural parks than in our own natural parks. We understand that a solution must be given to that building. We understand that it's logical that this isn't like a skeleton that's just a lump of cement, a metaphor more than a mismanagement policy of public resources. And we also believe that we have to question that macrocentre model, that model that, in a way, even in a much smaller dimension, reminds us of something that we have very close to this institution in which we are in Santiago de Compostela today. So we are not going to oppose this initiative, but we also believe that we need to give some rationality and a little more thorough debate about whether these should at this time be the priorities we have in the field of the environment, because sometimes we confuse the means with the ends. And it's not going to happen here too, like this little City of Culture, that instead of representing culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u329	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u330	...represents a very important slab, and the middle ends up becoming an end. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u331	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u332	Well, good night to all of us. This initiative well illustrates what has happened in this country for many, many, many years of non-government, which perfectly illustrates the desire and insulting misuse that has been made of public money, which continues to be made of public money, especially when it comes from the European Union. I would like to remind you that in the Committee on European Affairs, the Glaga Alternative on the Left has already requested an audit to know exactly how you invest that public money, to avoid the uncontrollability of buildings, macro buildings, of structures that are totally out of line because they had no planning, there was no real forecast of use behind them. And so it happened to the Centre for Interpretation of the Handcuffs of Budiño, which is the perfect paradigm of speculation politics, to believe that simply with construction comes the social development of the Greeks and the Greeks. And, of course, we know where this led us to an economic and social defeat for the Greeks and the Greeks. But also – and there I agree with something that the BNG spokesman said – to a certain erosion, when it is built without tone or sound, which means precisely cultural heritage, natural heritage, historical heritage. Because we must not forget that interpretation centres seek to value cultural goods, promote local development, even develop environmental education programs, enhance what can be called local development through green tourism and, of course, enhance heritage assets. All this has to have a perfect balance so that it's not exactly the worst remedy, because in many cases we know perfectly well... we oppose the policy of centres of interpretation of Galician archaeological parks, for example. There we have the misuse that has been made of Campo Lameiro Park, when it is delivered, above all, management to private companies. And you have to be very careful about some things that advise these buildings to be placed in private management. We, in principle, will never share private use unless we participate in citizenship, civil society, so that it can empower itself and contribute, together with the public administration, to dignify those spaces, which are empty today, which are built today. Because it has already been said that the study by Araceli Serantes says that 25% of the 188 interpretation centers in Galicia are closed or under construction, and 60% have hours, let's say, office hours, hours on demand, with which they are ineffective for the use for what they have been built, which is precisely to dignify and to introduce to know, above all, the heritage. Because these centers are contextual, they are located in the very place where there is the good that you want to dignify. But, of course, if the centers are closed, they can hardly meet their goal. And so we have, and already mentioned, the House of Castaña in Rios because of the 1,684 inhabitants. And, of course, if you don't make a clear travel planning policy, it's connectivity, because all of this doesn't make any sense at all. And the same can happen with the Bolo Castle Interpretation Center – The Bolo has 1,000 inhabitants. I mean, things have to be resized, they have to be seated, we have to design a new policy of use for these buildings. Of course, we have to finish what's already in the skeleton, but, of course, give it a public use, give it a social use, so that it will serve to the end of what they've done, that public money will serve precisely to make known our cultural heritage, our natural heritage, landscape and empower that neighborhood along with public administrations and inter-administrative cooperation, logically, so that it will go to good port. Because, if not, it doesn't make any sense to make buildings that remain empty, which is no use but to remind us of the policies of cement speculation, with which some people seem to want to relive today a past that wants it to be a future, and we hope it doesn't. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. Group author of the non-law proposal. Her word is Noela Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u334	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of the parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Mixed Group. "The Galician Natural Resources Interpretation Centre in Ourense represents an angular part of the Greek biodiversity conservation policy," Agustín Hernández, former Environmental Advisor, on October 3, 2010, when he placed the first stone in this center. He also quoted Mr. Novoa's statements before, when he was mayor of Ourense and when he was participating in that presentation. He was, Mr. Freire, mayor of Ourense when the project was introduced; you are ill-informed. A project which, by the way, was presented in a well-known hotel in the city of Ourense that these days is coming to light; a hotel that is bringing out the colors at all, and especially at all, by the machismo which summarizes this subject and by the abuse of tremendous power, all must be said. That's why it'll be easy for them to remember, surely. But in case it wasn't enough, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, program of the People's Party, of Mr Vázquez – now mayor of Ourense – with whom he competed for elections, point 161: Finishing the Centre for the Interpretation of Natural Parks of Galicia. Even to lie you must know, Mr. Freire. Even to lie you have to know! Because you come here with the technical excuse that the ground is inundable. Where are the reports? Where's the response from Galician Union? Then I'll tell him. The only thing there are are statements by the president of the Hydrographic Confederation – who, by chance, after Mr Vázquez's access to the mayor, went to meet him – where he said – and I want to quote textually –: "The place was considered outside the danger zone when it was built. After the 2013 Hydrological Plan, the land is classified as a flood zone." Okay, so I'm telling you, either it was flooded before, or it was flooded afterwards, or that the interpretation centers projected by the government of the bipartite are flooded, because in that area, Mr. Freire – I don't know if you know it – there are more infrastructures. So if that's in a flood zone, you'll have to start by dislodging and removing all those structures, if that's the reality. And, of course, put the reports on the table, because that doesn't stop being an excuse, just to lose European funds, to do a different project again and give the concession to a business your friend. That's the goal, Mr. Freire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u335	Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u336	...and if not, we'll see him here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u337	The amendment, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u338	No, we don't accept the People's Group amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-10-DSPG128.u339	It's just that this shift is to comment whether or not the amendment is accepted. [[Murmurs.]] Before we finish, you simply inform your lordships that the Non-Law Proposition register number 42473, of the Nationalist Galego Block, at the initiative of Mrs. Adam, will be substanceed the first morning, after the questions to the president, as I think they are familiar with the various spokesmen. And also communicate that oral questions to the president will be raised in a cumulative way. Good night. We'll stop the session until ten o'clock tomorrow. Thank you very much.
