ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u1	The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. Before entering the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, I want to ask that we keep a minute of silence as a sign of repulsion against gender violence and in the memory of the last victim, in the morning of last Saturday's morning, at Ponte Sampaio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u2	Thank you very much. We hope it never repeats itself. Election of three members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u3	We entered the agenda with the first point, of election of three members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 28 September 2015, was informed of the three vacancies as members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña of Fr. Marcelino Castro-Rial Schuler, Fr. Andrés Vicente Salgueiro Armada and Ms. Emma Lustres Gómez, due to the expiry of her term of office the first and the resignation of the other two elected by this House. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June 2013 of the Galician University System, three persons must be elected to fill the vacancies. The election, in accordance with Article 91 1.2 and (2) of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, shall be secret, by means of letters and alphabetical order. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the paper previously delivered by the services of the House, which lists the names of the candidates proposed by the parliamentary groups, marking the boxes with an aspa (X). Empty votes are considered if no boxes are marked. No vote is considered when the names of other people and other signs are written. And when the poll is held, the candidates will be elected if they get a simple majority. They're starting to split the paperwork, so once they're split, we're going to start the alphabetically called vote, made by the secretary of the Bureau. Do all Members and all Members already have the paper? [[Pause.]] I ask the vice president first and the vice secretary to sit where the ballot box is collected. The Secretary may proceed with the call of his lordships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u4	Are there any Members or Members left to vote? [[Refusal.]] Then we proceed to the scrutiny.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u5	When the vote was taken, the result was: 71 votes cast; votes in favour of Mr Eduardo Álvarez González, 20; votes in favour of Mr Luís Ramiro Díaz López, 42; votes in favour of Mr Luís Felipe Llamas Gómez, 42; votes in favour of Mr Luís Ramiro Díaz López, 9. Having reached the simple majority, we proclaimed elected members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña to Fr Eduardo Álvarez González, Mr Luís Ramiro Díaz López and Mr Luís Felipe Llamas Gómez. At the end of this point, we continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2, of legislative texts. Debate on the Proposal for a Law to Present Before the Congress of Deputies, by the G.P. Mixed, by which to regulate extrajudicial debt recovery
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u6	You have the floor, to present your bill, the representative of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Carmen Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. The outline of this bill presented today in this House for its consideration is the facts that this honourable Member has witnessed in his place of residence. A pickup company, with a squeaking car, travels the place to get well visible and alert the neighbors, who go out to see what's going on. The car stops in front of one of the houses, from which an older woman and a young man comes, those who mock, insult, and all those who compete see themselves humiliated and their honour and their dignity violated. Everything to try to collect a debt and make it clear that these people had a debt, something that belongs to their privacy. What happened there, in my view, cannot be accommodated in a state of law. But in view of the impunity with which these collecting companies operate, the legal vacuum with regard to these actions, since the exercise of the functions that the office of honourable Member gives me, and with the collaboration of two lawyers – I greet, because they are above – Isabel Isona Díaz, and Rocío Rodríguez Enríquez, who have drafted the law, I present this bill before this Parliament for consideration. Regulation needs to be regulated by the main associations that bring together companies to recover debt, since Spain is one of the few states of the European Union which lacks regulation in this area. The Spanish State is one of the few at European level who suffers from a total lack of regulation in the field of extrajudicial debt recovery. In addition, the current economic crisis has significantly increased debt recovery and, therefore, operators involved in this activity. The aim of the text is to avoid illicit practices, such as violation of the right to honor, privacy and image itself, coercion, threats and harassment, among others. Although most recovery professionals use legal means, I beg you to remain silent, because I can hardly concentrate. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u8	I'm sorry. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u9	Although most recovery professionals use legal and legal means, there are others who, with their actions, seriously hurt people's fundamental rights. Thus, it is widely known that the proliferation in our country of non-payments collection companies that base their management on the public dissemination of the morbid condition, and the abusive and offensive assault on people's rights. Some of these entities use practices such as sending disguised collectors who pursue the debtors, communicating debt to their social environment, telephoneing at night hours, using offensive language or even offering threats. On this issue, the Supreme Court had the opportunity to give its ruling, confirming the conviction of a company for the extrajudicial recovery of debts due to unlawful interference in the right to honor debtors – Judgment of the Supreme Court No. 306/2001 of 2 April 2001 –. On that occasion, the High Court considered that the performance of the employees of the collection company, who claimed that the persons present in the establishment and the neighbors of the claimants were aware of the alleged laziness of the debtors, was obviously intimidating or disturbing. In the same sense, there are numerous judgments handed down by the minor case law, in which companies are convicted of collecting non-payments for unlawful intrusion in the right to honor. For all, the Judgment of the Provincial Court of Ourense number 45000/2009, of 11 February, and also the Judgment of the Provincial Court of Vizcaya number 358/2005, of 11 May. A sector regulation would provide protection instruments for citizenship prior to judicial recourse. With the current state of affairs, citizens affected by these conducts, what solution do they have? Well, unfortunately, in the face of this uncertainty, it's only left to go to the judicial headquarters, without our system of ex ante protection instruments. This unfortunate situation, ladies and gentlemen, the problem we are dealing with is that of the great legal insecurity in this area. In our country, there has been a legal vacuum in the field of extrajudicial recovery of debts that has generated the right crop broth for the proliferation of bad practices that, as a society, we have the responsibility to eradicate. The need for regulation has not only been strongly demanded for some time now by courts of justice, but also by sectoral associations, which demand a legal framework for the exercise of their profession that provides them with the most elementary legal security, that prevents intrusion and that ends with unethical and illegal behaviours by some companies in the sector and which harm the rest. Well, given the current situation of uncertainty that favors the emergence and persistence of illegal conduct, and, on occasion, attacks on constitutionally recognized rights, such as the right to honor, privacy and the image itself, we have the responsibility as a House to fill this legislative lagoon to prevent as far as possible these abuses can be perpetuated and produced. Despite the fact that the competence for the adoption of a law on the content we are concerned with corresponds to the Congress of Deputies, we cannot rule out the responsibilities contained in our role as representatives of the citizenship of our country in the face of the existence of this problem, which is seriously affecting the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why we are presenting this bill for your consideration by this House and subsequent referral to Congress, for having assigned this competence in the subject matter mentioned. The text we are presenting is based on the comparative European legislation. As for the drafting of the text, given the total lack of regulation in our state, we are based on the abundant European comparative legislation, and essentially the existing one in France, Germany, Italy, Greece and Austria. From the work done, the text is now presented, which has the following highlights: With regard to the scope of the law, it is extensive, understanding not only those natural or legal persons who act on behalf of third parties who hire their services, but also those who collect in their own name, as holders of a claim, whatever their corporate form, as is the case with credit institutions or financial companies. All this in order to make it more difficult to produce in this context of conduct contrary to the dignity of the person and constituting a crime. Point B. With regard to the requirements and obligations of non-judgmental debt recovery undertakings, detailed technical and security regulations are laid down in the text. There have also been certain demands and cautions on the staff of directors and employees of companies who seek to promote the professionalization and specialization of people who are engaged in such a sensitive area as non-payments collection. Section C. A register of credit recovery companies is created in the legal text, as already provided for in the laws of states of our environment, such as the Italian text or the Greek text. This step seems fundamental to us because it constitutes a guarantee for the extrajudicial collection companies themselves. With this measure, it will be known the true science that entities conform to the sector and will make it possible to comply with the same requirements, supporting those that currently follow certain guidelines included in ethical codes of voluntary compliance and eradicating the bad practice in the collection of debtors. As for activities involving recovery of claims and recovery, it is expected that the procedure for extrajudicial recovery will have its own procedural channel. This forecast is intended to be such a guarantor for companies, that in this way they will have a solid reference to conduct that is legitimate and will be able to easily believe their actions in accordance with law, as well as for debtors, whose legal situation will be less vulnerable to bad practices. It is also envisaged to carry out a mediation work, which will end with the payment of the amount, without needing to go to the judicial route, through the processing and preservation of the data that will necessarily have to be managed by the credit recovery company. Subparagraph E – last subparagraph. With regard to the sanctioning procedure, it provides for a series of prohibited conduct, in order for the text not to remain in a mere declaration of intent or a code of good practice. It is necessary to predict what will happen when the infringements that are established in it occur. Thus, this law dedicates its title V to the treatment of infringements and sanctions; a part in which the reality of the sector has been very present in our days and the judicial problem therefore raised. The sanctioning power shall be conferred on the Banco de España, within the framework laid down in Article 7.6 of Law 13/1994, of 1 June, of the autonomy of the Banco de España, which enables it to confer jurisdiction on this body through this legal text. This is a complete text, which seeks to address the issue that deals with us from the many perspectives that can generate conflict and which provides society with means to eradicate, once and for all, the legal insecurity present in the sector, which both harms citizens' rights and most professionals in the same way who work ethically and according to legality. The subject of extrajudicial debt recovery, which has thus far been exposed, should arouse a cross-sectional interest and beyond the House's own political groups. That is why you appeal at this moment to the responsibility of your lordships on such a sensitive subject as what we have in our hands to achieve a consensus that will allow the adoption of this bill for their referral to the courts of the Spanish State. It can't be any other way, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the defense of constitutional rights of citizenship is at stake, as has been said before. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u10	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Round of parliamentary groups. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor for the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The taxing fox, the clown collector, the Roman, the friar's collector – I don't have this very well-ordered –... If I'm allowed to play, one of the reasons why it's necessary to regulate the extrajudicial recovery of debts is to see if it ever ends with this horde. But at all I intend to chill, ladies and gentlemen, because, jokes aside, we are talking about a very serious issue. Behind these spiritistic figures of the taxing fox, the clown collector, and other figures that appear to be extracted from a Berlanga film, there are often practices of attacks on more elementary human rights. That's why I want to start by congratulating the Joint Group on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group on presenting this bill. The creditor's right to claim debt extrajudicially is covered by the Civil Code. Thus, article 1,096 states that, when what should be delivered is a certain thing, the creditor can match the debtor to which the delivery is delivered. However, the exercise of this right cannot lead to offensive conduct against fundamental rights. I would like to recall that article 18 of the Spanish Constitution recognizes as a fundamental right of a person the right to honor, personal and family intimacy and the image itself. And if this article belongs to the sufficient relationship of rights recognized in the Spanish Constitution that have become wet paper, I also remind you that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed by the Spanish State, recognizes the right to private and family life, and specifically establishes in its article 17 that no one will be subject to arbitrary or illegal interference in his private life, his family, his home or his correspondence; or attacks illegal to his honour and reputation. It also establishes that everyone is entitled to the protection of the law against such interference and attacks. However, the legal vacuum in the extrajudicial recovery of debts causes debtors to be in an absolute situation of legal insecurity, and that fundamental rights such as the right to honor, privacy and the image itself are systematically violated. We do not doubt that most of the professionals involved in debt collection use legal and legal methods, but the lack of regulation leads to companies and people using intimidation and coercion practices, abusive and degrading conduct that undermine people's dignity. In addition, this is an increasing problem; the crisis has led to a sharp increase in debt and laxity; in addition, the problem has been aggravated – as we have often reported in this Parliament – by the difficulties of access to funding for women and families. On the other hand, this increase in debt and maturity has led to the proliferation of companies operating in the sector, resulting in multiple cases of intrusion and the proliferation of unethical behaviour by many of these operators. As the proposed group says in the explanatory statement of the bill, the Spanish State is the only State in the European Union in which the extrajudicial recovery of debts is not regulated. There is no law, ministerial order or regulation that – worth redundancy – regulates this activity; and even the courts of Justice themselves claim from the public authorities to remedy this situation. As many companies claim, to end intrusion and bad practices. In this initiative, in this bill, it proposes – among other things – to create a business register; to establish the requirements that these companies must meet in order to operate; and to establish the procedures that must be followed in the exercise of their work. It proposes to regulate the processing of personal data to ensure the protection of confidentiality; it also proposes to establish a sanctioning regime. We agree with many of the proposals contained in this bill, others offer us more doubts, but in any case we find it relevant, it seems necessary, regular, to end the existing legal vacuum. So we agree – and this is fundamental – with the substance that inspires this bill because something as important is at stake as the protection of fundamental rights. For that reason I announce that the Nationalist Block of Wales will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, because this is what is going to be done in this process: to pronounce ourselves on whether we accept the need for its consideration. I think there are obvious reasons, enough reasons, to do so; and therefore I reiterate our favourable vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u12	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u13	Good morning to all of you. First of all, to announce the positive vote of the Alternative on this initiative, and even to congratulate us because we believe that, without doubt, it will fill a relevant vacuum in the legal order of our State. So, of course, we will support it. It is true – as the initiative itself proposes – that in the order of the countries of our surroundings, Portugal and even the Spanish state are of the few who do not have a regulation that rightly prevents the spectacle or the violation of rights that our state is allowing. We are of the few who, as we have taken up in the initiative, indeed, lack that legal regulation. Although it is true that, as Mr. Jorquera has already said, article 1,096 of the Civil Code – although it is a very complex text of 1789, very far behind – speaks of the delivery of things, it is true that we lack regulation. And it is also true that article 21 of the current rule of the State Entrepreneurship Act incorporates only part of the extrajudicial recognition of debts in private cases of creditors' contests. But the truth is, as far as the so-called recovery companies are concerned, or as far as the particular vulnerability of the people who are in a situation of laziness as a result of the crisis, there is no kind of regulation in our state. It would be good if we had given data, because the truth and truth is that since 2005, in which there was little morosity in our state, the data we already have of the year 2013 allow people to talk about, as far as private debts are concerned, an increase in non-compliance – i.e. material impossibility of paying them – of 12%. And even, according to the data we know, we can have around 800 to 1,000 companies that circulate and operate in commercial traffic with certain non-opportunities, but manifest irregularities in what happens to copyright violations. Although there is no express regulation, it is true that the courts come to protect and denounce this situation since the first ruling that took place in our State, which was in 1995, on 30 December 1995, and that they have made or conditioned the conditions that allow them to assess as abusive the practices that these companies produce or even as offenders of fundamental rights; including the right to privacy, the right to dignity, the right to honor those affected by a personal situation of economic crisis. In a country, as we always say, in which it is tremendous... i.e. companies have the right to break and have specific procedures; however, people who are affected by a crisis situation that did not cause them, because, indeed, they have no special procedure despite the multiple occasions in which in the General Courts – it is dissolved – the groups we represent have taken initiatives just to allow this to happen to the people affected. What's this about here? It's just about covering a legal vacuum. What's this about here? It's about protecting the vulnerability of the people affected. What's this about here? It's substantially about avoiding those bohorous shows that we're almost used to living, something regrettable, I insist. And as far as Mrs Iglesias' own initiative is concerned, we're going to give her a good look, of course. What happens is that in the subsequent process we have, let's say, nuances in the very formulation of the norm. As, for example, we have disagreements as to whether the Ministry of the Interior should be what this competition is about, we have many disagreements as to whether it should be the governing body the Bank of Spain, which should manage this type of procedure in both parts, i.e. in the instructive part of the proceedings and in the sanctioning part. We believe there must be proximity, that is, it must be one of the competences our nation has and that it can also lead to ensuring the protection of the rights of the people concerned. We also have discrepancies in terms of deadlines, because the rule outlined -- but that's what we're going to do later -- talks about thirty days, for example, in the case of allegations, when, for example, in an ordinary court procedure it's twenty working days that would put us in an average of forty or forty-five. I mean, there are really aspects that we don't share on the specific issue, but in the whole of protection, of course, yes. And, above all, of course, it is quite surprising, because there has just been an express change in the first additional provision of the Civil Settlement Act by the People's Party. I say "express" because something very relevant has changed in relation to the prescriptions of debts in this country's legal culture, which range from fifteen years to five years, expressly modification by the People's Party and which will have relevant aspects of protection for people affected by this issue. But there was, of course, such an oblivion of the legislator's coverage of this matter. And without question, of course, it is absolutely relevant to what the initiative calls for, as other states do, for example in the case of the French State, the French Republic, because, indeed, what they do is to regulate small but relevant aspects of what it has to do with the register of companies dedicated to the extrajudicial collection of debts and even that central element which is what this norm, this proposal, which is a specific procedure to carry it forward. So they are central elements and, above all, a question of globality too, and it is that it is to protect the victims of this crisis that is being turned into a real scam, in addition to all that public ridicule to which people are subjected, which unfortunately are many and are living – I insist – these consequences of the crisis itself. And, on the other hand, what if the courts have said... what happens to force people into a judicial process in the present reality, with the rates, with which it is difficult to deal with the very process of free justice and many other elements, is an absolute obstacle. And what he has said about justice – some of the rulings are said on his own initiative, but there are many of the Greek courts on this issue – of course, it is not possible to replace the co-active visa of the state from now on for the sake of the private or private interests of a company that, in addition to paying attention to the fundamental rights of people. So I finish as I began, congratulations on this initiative, and we hope that it will continue in the process, despite the fact that later, in case it goes ahead, we will have conflicting contributions on some of the issues raised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. For the Socialist Group, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I'm going to start with a real example, on which I participated in my profession. A man who, let's say, called Manuel, is a good man, had a carpentry company, about ten workers; it worked very well for many years. The company was inherited from its father, who was also a carpenter. In a certain moment, as a result of the crisis, it was wrong for him and the company came to the competition. And right now it's dissolved and liquidated, it doesn't exist anymore. And at a certain point, as he had owed, a debt-claiming company, with a yellow car, lived practically in front of his house, entered his building and handed over the debt-claiming letters to his daughter, who was younger – still underage – who were putting the car in front of his wife's work despite their separation of goods. And, of course, they kept calling him on the phone to threaten him and coerce him. The moment he called me, I knew him aside from my profession. I spoke with several people, mainly with two undesirable people – I said so because they were undesirable – I sent a couple faxes, a bureaufax, to the people who called me, threatened with a complaint in the trial and the subject ended. And from there that car didn't show up again and they didn't continue the coercion. This matter exists, it's a very worrisome matter. Manuel Gallego has just told me that a few days ago he went to a funeral and at the funeral – from a debtor, we understand – there was a gentleman disguised as a bullfighter who was that debtor's collector; and hence moral and ethical lowness reaches those limits. Having said this, we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, but just as there are "buts" on the other groups, on our side there are also "buts". It's true that there's no specific regulation at the national level, but the first nuance we don't understand is what the specific relationship with our autonomous community is, because this exists everywhere, not only in Galicia. And, in fact, maybe what we would need is a state law promoted by the Courts themselves. I'll try to explain our position. In law there is a basic principle that is that of simplification; and in politics there is a basic principle too, which is to save in normative creation, there is no need for many laws, and in fact we have the evidence in the People's Party's Party's own government. The president of the government bombed us on the first day he came here at the investment session and promised ten laws, fifteen, twenty... What's more there are many, the problem is they apply! Therefore, what is needed are good laws. And the introduction of the proposal says that there is a great legal insecurity, a legal pond, that we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, do not share in its entirety. Because it is true that there is a magnificent 19th century text, but magnificent, which is the Civil Code, which regulates the creditor's possible claim, is a creditor's right, and it has long been defined that mandate relationship in which it is spoken in the text itself. It's not specifically extinguished by the causes that give us in this bill. We therefore understand that reform of the Civil Code would be necessary and specifically requested in this bill, and in the text it is not. We don't know if the claim that's regulated and that relationship between those two people, the creditor that hires the company, is for all kinds of claims or for some specifics, because it's not concrete either. There is a 1999 law, which is the Organic Data Protection Act, data are fundamental rights because it affects people's privacy. An ordinary law cannot regulate a specific matter of organic law and enter into specific matters of organic law, such as this law of the year 1999. That could cause problems too. There's been a law of mediation in civil and commercial matters since 2012. Limited societies and anonymous societies have been regulated for decades, we have a criminal code, and any intimidation, coercion, threats, harassing treatment, degrading treatment, is already criminalized and can be prosecuted, and, in fact, punished. In this case, at the time of the threat on my part – and I say so, "threat", freely, without cutting my hair – of complaint in the trial, that company stopped and stopped threatening that gentleman. And the sanctioning procedure of articles 22 et seq. of the bill is really the sanctioning procedure of Law 30/1992, there is no excessive difference. That's why, yes, we also understand that it is necessary to review thoroughly and make a contribution among all of us so that this bill, which we are going to vote in favour of in your consideration, will go ahead. This is the judgement of the 2001 Supreme Court which marked one before and one after; not enough, because there is only one, and, if there is no more, the Supreme Court can say little. We're missing social networks. Social networks are right now media between people, and they're not. We consider these to be basic, especially for younger people. And by the way, I know a lot of older people who use social media. There are some issues that cause us some fear. I'm going to put a couple of examples. The data collected and handled by these companies are reported to be processed from legitimate bases by verifying them with several sources of information. Who are the sources of information? He's scared. With regard to the infringements, for example, no one escapes from the fact that it is not the same thing to be wrong in dealing with a debtor that on the day of his burial there is a gentleman disguised as a bullfighter exacting a debt to his family. They're absolutely different. So if the sanctions are different, the infringements are different, the prescription of one's deadline and another's have to be different; and yet they're identical, there's no difference as to whether they're less serious or more. And then we understand that there are certain doubts that we would like to be clarified in the return. We do not understand why the sanctioning competition for these companies will be on the part of the Banco de España. Let's suppose it's because they're credit institutions, but then why don't they refuse the rules of credit activities? We don't understand, exactly like the AGE Group, why the book-registration has to take it, from these operations to be done, the Chief Executive of the Provincial National Police, Local or Autonomic Police, or the post of the Civil Guard. We don't understand what the state's security forces and bodies have to do with this law. It doesn't fit. It's a company that's engaged in a financial activity, but it's still a company that's going to be engaged in the extra-judicial debt claim. We don't understand, with the unemployment in our autonomous community, with the unemployment in the state, mainly of men – who tend to be the managers who claim these debts – who have an average age of 50 up, who are really the long-term unemployed who have more problems with access to employment, why people who direct staff to the service of these companies have to be licensed. We don't understand why they have to be licensed in law, economics, political sciences or equivalent, which we don't know what graduation is. We don't understand why the rest of the staff serving these management bodies have to have the ESO title. For example, in Andalusia it is certain that half of the population could no longer work, because they have almost no school certificate; because it is a very broad autonomous community with a lot of problems of historical illiteracy. We don't understand why there's no ESO equivalent, for example EXB. I could no longer perform this function personally. And if it is possible to adopt interim measures in the sanctioning procedure, which is said, what does it mean that they can be agreed on in accordance with the requirements of general interests? Let's hope that these general interests are defined, that it's not like that of Helmets, that it was the general interest of football to put on new television channels. Finally, we are going to vote in favour of taking into consideration because we believe in debate, democracy, but we understand that it is necessary – and above all, because we want to make amendments to a text to make it better for everyone. Let us hope that the People's Party will vote in favour. The text is perhaps repetitive, excessive, it poses problems... and, above all, we want this text to be improved to protect people who really need defense, who are the debtors – not the companies, the debtors –. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. People's Group, you have the floor Mr. Trenor Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u17	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Congratulations to the lawyers who have drawn up this text, and also to the rest of the colleagues who have preceded me in the word and who have been making a perhaps enriching account or who enriches the text that has been presented. But let us continue to make a few reflections on this bill, which is a bill to raise to the Congress of Members the extrajudicial recovery of debts. You, Mrs Iglesias, have already remembered that the matter of extrajudicial recovery lies outside our competence framework, and then what we ask ourselves is why, if we do not have these powers, we are going to raise a bill to Congress; what great solution are we giving here, since our Parliament, that we have not already debated in Congress?; or, what situation of extreme gravity is producing just at this moment – which already begins to grow economically – that justifies this? In addition, we must also take into account that this request we will do it one day after the dissolution of the cameras. So we believe – at the bottom of the proposal... – that you make a triple argument, it alludes to a total lack of regulation in this matter. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Vilan has already said, because we could say that this is not exactly the case, we cannot be confused that there is no specific regulation on this particular type of company with a total lack of regulation of this matter. Extrajudicial recovery is not exhausted from the activity of these companies, but rather the right thing to say that these companies represent only a small part of that process of indebtedness of families and businesses, of difficulty in dealing with the payments of it and the overcoming of that difficulty. As you say, this total lack of regulation is compounded as a result of the economic crisis we are out of but whose consequences still suffer from families and pemmes. As a consequence of everything before – and I reproduce your words – you incur a legal insecurity that affects the debtors who find themselves in a situation of great deprotection from the bad practices that may occur. You therefore present this text as if it were the solution of a supposed scenario of chaos, similar to the law of the jungle, where we can visualize the damage that causes this deregulation. So let us really look at whether this is the case, and in the different areas where debtors can be affected – and more importantly, if this text provides something in any of those areas –. We analyze the perspective of the debtor as a consumer who has his rights and that these are violated. First of all, it should be noted that the proposed law provides for an area of action which exceeds the competences for the protection of consumers. Article 3 of Law 2/2012 of 28 March, a Galician consumer and user general protection, clearly collects the concept of consumer but, for its part, Article 3 of the proposed law object of this intervention defines the debtor as that person who turns out to be the holder of the debt object of extrajudicial claim; and, with this drafting of the person owed to article 3 that you make, any natural or legal person – whether in particular, autonomous or business person – would remain within the scope of the proposal. It should be noted that some aspects covered by this bill do not have treatment or legislation on the protection of consumers; so when this extrajudicial charge has as its recipient a consumer, it is covered by consumer legislation. In addition, this protection is not only provided for in state legislation but also in the autonomic field. The Law to which it referred –2/2012 – in its Article 37 contains the following: "Manifestation of laziness: companies can only state that a consumer is in a state when there is a consumer recognition or an executive title that declares it, without prejudice to the right to exercency and obligations on the part of them." Article 82.16 collects as a serious infringement the following: "Don't forward recordings of conversations with consumers within the specified time limit or do so without meeting the requirements required for that". Article 82.37, in connection with serious infringements, contains the following: "The unilateral demonstration of the delay by the company against that set out in Article 37 of this law". So with regard to the protection of debtors as long as they are regarded as consumers, we understand that there is a regulatory framework against possible bad practices. As far as data protection for debtors is concerned – and, in addition to the examples being exposed – may seem to be just in that area the key to the proposed legislation, but there is no novelty in this area either if there is extensive regulation on data protection. There is even an agency, such as the Spanish Data Protection Agency, which is responsible for ensuring compliance with the data protection regulations. The Spanish Data Protection Agency has the function of ensuring compliance with this legislation and therefore it has the power to inspect and punish offences that it can detect; but, more importantly, the Agency has extrajudicial mechanisms to enforce citizens' rights. Whenever there is evidence or evidence that can be believed, in compliance with the Organic Data Protection Act, you can file a complaint by putting these facts into the Agency's knowledge and it will act by ensuring compliance with those rights. All this, I emphasize, as I have already said, without need of judicialization. As we see, the proposed regularisation does not contribute anything to the protection of consumer rights or to the protection of data. Perhaps, Mrs Iglesias, where this proposal incorporates newness, it is in the process of extrajudicial negotiation to restructure debts and, even, why not, this process could include an exemption from the payment of part of those debts in cases where the liquidation of them would involve an effort that would extend to the rest of life – an important aspect, as Mrs Díaz recalled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But for this reason, the second opportunity Law, Mrs Iglesias, has been approved in this legislation; this law includes measures for debt restructuring, thanks to that rule, the debtor can carry out extrajudicial negotiations with his creditor so that he can pay the debt and, in addition, is supported by a new figure that is created in the Law that is the mediator's. For the first time, physical persons can be accommodated, like legal persons, to a similar process – or a creditor contest – that would even allow the process to be completed by exempting outstanding debts after meeting the agreed payment plan. Let's keep going. In those serious cases – and I am referring to those violations of the most serious legislation, those acts that involve harassment or denigration that attack the dignity of the people and harm or harm the honour of the people concerned, or when you appreciate a purpose that you intend to frighten or coerce debtors by means of harassment – you even collect that, when there were these facts that could constitute criminal offences, the penal administrative process that you are proposing is not valid. And I remember you refer to 25 articles, of the 47 of the law, for this process. The instruction of the criminal case prevails over the mechanism reflected in the bill that you bring here. Ladies and gentlemen, if this proposal does not contribute anything to the debtor's defence of his rights as a consumer, or to the protection of his data, nor does it provide anything in order to overcome the situation of morbidity or difficulty in dealing with his debts, nor in cases of offences that may have criminal consequences... Finally – to finish, ladies – if this proposal does not provide anything, as far as the debtor is concerned with the defence and protection of his rights, or as far as he can overcome the situation of difficulty in dealing with his debts, what are you really proposing to us? Well basically, Mrs Iglesias, a regulation for this guild. And by the structure of the proposal and by what you say in the proposal you bring to this House, it seems that what you are looking for is to wash the image of that sector, so for example, of the forty-seven articles of this law, twenty-five are devoted to a sanctioning procedure – a sanctioner that would not be applicable because it would apply only if there were no civil or criminal responsibilities in the area of data protection or any other area in which you could compete. On the other hand, the Spanish bank has powers in inspection control, which seems to apply only the debts with financial entities, leaving out all those commercial debts between companies – which is precisely where the recovery companies do their August. We also discriminate in the scope, in the staff requirements hired by the recovery companies you propose, we disagree within the time limits you propose – even where to include the security bodies. But ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, what we disagree about is in a law that provides no tool for those people, for those families, for those companies with problems to cope with the payment of their debts. Mrs. Churches, bring here a law that can help families, that can help people and that can help small and medium-sized businesses and will, of course, have the support of our group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u18	Thank you very much. Replica, a parliamentary group which is the author of the bill, has the floor of Mrs Iglesias Sueiro of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u19	Thank you, President. Thanks to the parliamentary groups that will support this bill with their vote. My condolences to the People's Party for not supporting it, as well as my condolences to the People's Party for not adopting a resolution tabled by this Member in the debate in the State of the Nation on the protection of complainants and witnesses to cases of corruption. You can see how much interest you have in re-establishing democracy. In Spain, honourable Members, no person who is not a judge or a judge is vested in authority to charge the other against his will, however legitimate the debt claimed. And I want to remind you that a short time ago, very little time ago, it happened in Betanzos a case that shows us the need to legislate about these kinds of actions: a pharmacist was working on his establishment, he saw himself intertwined, saw himself insulted by one of these tax collectors in front of his clients and his clients and the aggravating debt of a relative. I also want to remind you of the case – that legislation works so well –: this Betanzos pharmaceutical had to resort to other mechanisms to defend themselves that they were not in the rule of law. And on the other hand, I want to remind you too, I want to bring here the name of a woman named Lola, who is from Lugo, a Greek woman, too, as the pharmaceutical company of Betanzos, who, at an economic point of consumption, asked for a loan of EUR 10.00; only received 7,500 and, due to the delay in payments, today the debt is worth 20,000 euros. And, above all this abuse, of the wear that this citizen is victim to, Lola has to endure telephone harassment at home, also at work, also in the neighborhood, also in the family. There's a legal vacuum, gentlemen, there's a legal vacuum and this can't be discussed by anyone, by many circles and by many curfews that you give to the stories, it's practical that have to have a legislation that protects those who participate in them, to avoid harassment, extortion, weariness, discovery and disclosure of data. We live in a time of crisis. A report by the collectives, particularly vulnerable consumers, made by ADICAE, estimates that there are 28% people in Galicia who do not reach the end of the month and 9% of them are permanently in red numbers. Many of them support, desperate, microcredit – they're advertising us on television, so you allow us to wear it too – financials and lenders as a quick and urgent solution. [[Murmurs.]] But those credits apply an interest that rubs the wear, without the political class doing anything to avoid it. Of course, they are vulnerable citizens, they belong to the weakest strata of society, and you don't care; you care about big companies, they don't care about individuals, people. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u21	Because, moreover, in many cases, the interest of delay, more penalties, more execution costs is added to that borrowed capital, so that a debt which was, at best, EUR 5,000 will become around EUR 30,000. You'll see! I have a very calm conscience; you, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u22	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. We are voting on the adoption of this bill to present before the Congress of Members presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. Mixed, by which the extra-judicial debt recovery is regulated. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u23	Before we proceed with the substance of the agenda, I would like to convey to your honourable Members an amendment: the questions to the Government 41074 of the People's Group, 42491 of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and 42907 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group will be put into effect at the last hour of this afternoon, following the proposal no by law number 5, which will in principle be the last one we will discuss today. Thank you very much. We continue with point 3 of appearances in plenary. Comparison of Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, on his own request, to inform the beginning of the course 2015-2016 in non-university education in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u24	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today I present my own request to inform of how the start of the 2015-2016 course in the field of non-university education in Galicia took place. I compare from the conviction of the importance of accountability, just as my predecessor in office always did the task of informing this House with responsibility and transparency. But it is true that there were also, at other times, other advisors who did not give the same relevance to this fact. I know that since the opposition they wanted to put forward this debate in September, when the classes had hardly begun or the whole process had been closed. I know from the opposition they forgot, interestingly, that the course planning was already discussed last June; in that month I appeared, also my own request, to explain the development of LOMCE in ESO and in the bacharelate, and had already advanced the course planning in which we are. I also know that, all this time, you've been very worried about launching the usual alarm messages and usual chaos augurs. But in this almost a month and a half of classes, reality has shown that the course has begun with total normality, and with enough work from the educational administration to meet those situations that occur at the start of educational activity and complementary education services. Ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of each school course is always an important challenge, not without difficulties, but without difficulties, because it involves addressing a large number of people and enabling enough human and material resources. We understand the quality of education guaranteed and adjust the attention to all the student in Galicia. Thanks to the good work done by the teaching staff, we can say that, one more year, we have enough teaching staff and that, in any case, it is adjusted to the real demands that appear at the start of the course. We're talking about something more than 400,000 students in non-university education who resumed their educational activities in early September. In the current course, without accounting for vocational training, the total ratio of pupils in children, primary, special education, ESO and Bachelor's degree, rises to some 350,000 students, which means a slight increase of 0.4%. The only steps in which the student decreases are child education – one 1.7% less – and in special education – one 2% less –. It must be added that the number of students in artistic teachings – i.e. music, dance, plastic arts, design... – and sports teachings exceeds 11,500 enrolled. And if we're talking about vocational training, one more year we've made an offer of very wide squares that exceeded the demand of potential students and students. We have both regular and modular training cycles, as well as distance FP, dual vocational training and basic vocational training, being in a number greater than 51,000 enrolled, as well as in the past. We are with an offer of suitable squares to the labour market, which thinks of facilitating the inclusion of vocational training students and which, above all, is governed by responsible criteria, appropriate to the needs of the market. As far as supplementary services are concerned, we are talking about the fact that in school transport, 93.190 pupils and students from 784 educational centres use school transport every day. And we're also talking about over 72,000 school dining places, managed directly by the board, by the ANPA or by the municipalities. In total, the Education Department of the Union directly manages 302 school dining rooms and 133 other dining rooms indirectly; for its part, the ANPA manages 136 dining rooms and, the municipalities, 42. At this point, I would like to remind you that the school breakfast service in Galicia – based on family income – is undoubtedly one of the most socially fair and affordable systems for families in the Spanish state. We're talking about that almost 80% of users pay zero euros; we're talking about that, with the nominal economic increases that we receive from the person who pays according to income, we're able to increase the number of squares in recent years; and we're talking about, ultimately, that families with more resources can pay something and families with less resources because they don't pay anything. In terms of physical equipment, buildings, educational centres, Galicia has a wide network, more than 1,400 educational centres, of which almost 80% are public. Obviously, it is the Administration's mission to ensure that at every start of the course the facilities are suitable, they are adapted to meet the needs of the educational community as a whole. In this regard, I think it is no less important to highlight the important effort made during the summer months, and even at the beginning of the course, to improve Galician educational centres. And undoubtedly there was also an investment effort: we're talking about nearly 33 million euros that were invested, in the past school year, in order to have better education centers for our students. We are talking, in particular, of almost 21 million euros in the field of Feder funds, we are also talking about 5 million euros of FCI for repairs of equipment; that this is to be added to all RAM matches – more than 4.2 million euros – and also the 2.6 million euros provided by provincial deputies who have reached agreements between the Council of Galicia and these provincial deputies. Very significant, in this area too, is the importance given this year to what has to do with the digitization of all the public education classes in Galicia from 5th primary – i.e., 5th and 6th primary and the four courses in ESO –. We can talk about our intention is to achieve 100% of the digitalized public classes; we're talking about 2,727 classes in which we can develop the educational process in a digital environment, with the technologies needed to do so – 5th and 6th primary and the whole ESO –. And that, no doubt, is a bet on equity, both social and territorial equity, breaking the gap between what is urban space and rural space, and assuming an important investment, in this case for Amtega, over 11 million euros. And in this line, I would also like to highlight and highlight, after four years of application, the importance that is being achieved and that the Abalar project is reaching, where 52,000 students are developing the learning process in this environment; and I also meant that, once we apply this new digitization, we're going to have more than 100,000 students, 102,000 students who will study in digital classes. I insist, 5th and 6th primary and the whole ESO. I would also like to highlight the effort being made in equipment in the field of vocational training. The board is running, and it has executed, more than 3.5 million euros in vocational training equipment, which have benefited 46 centres, 3,541 students directly and 118 training cycles. It is about providing vocational training centres with high-tech equipment – automatons, robots, simulators – so that they can be applied and can be work tools in vocational training rooms, so that students who are studying vocational training are in contact, from the first day, with those machinery that will somehow be used in the world of work, and always looking for the highest qualification for the student who is studying vocational training. Obviously, in addition to increasing the appropriations, increasing the equipment, important works were also carried out on repairs and expansions in the field of vocational training. The truth is that all of this should contribute to avoiding, or trying to avoid, the frequent temptation to discredit the work done and the result achieved by the mere interest in exhausting, in this case, the Educational Administration and exhausting the Government. Another usual attack, in this case of the opposition, has to do with rejection – it would be almost casually said – which makes the opposition what is the organic law of improving educational quality, what is LOMCE. [[Murmurs.]] The application of LOMCE is this year in the second year; last year it has been applied with total normality in the field of primary and basic vocational training, and this year it is also doing with total normality in the field of ESO and Bachelorate. There are constant criticisms – there are the hemerothecs to prove it – but in the end, time comes to give and remove the reason – it is undoubtedly the best judge – and we can say that there were no drastic breaks with the application of LOMCE and if there was an adaptation to our reality of organic law, and if there was the introduction of the best that brought about this new law. We say this on multiple occasions: last year, simply in primary, simply in basic vocational training, the primary curriculum is improved, the basic skills are strengthened, the mathematics classes are increased, the Greek language is guaranteed to be the vehicle language with other languages, the territorial balance is fostered. [[Murmurs.]] And we have a basic vocational training that I would like to highlight, in the sense that a suitable title offer has been proposed, in line with Galicia's needs and, above all, considering that basic vocational training is a measure of genuine social equity, since students who teach it are undoubtedly giving them a training that, if they don't have it, would lead these people to difficult vital itineraries, since we are talking about students with learning difficulties or students with special educational needs. So, we're talking about basic vocational training as a measure of social equity. And consistent with this work, and also with the schedule foreseen by LOMCE, the course 2015-2016 – the course in which we are – has started in time and form with the new curricula of ESO and bacharelate adapted. Obviously, the new curricula are deep into the measures also imposed in primary, they reinforce learning by skills, they strengthen mathematics, they empower the autonomy of the centers by enabling students to set up specific educational itineraries – something that is of great interest – so that one can build one's own training curriculum and it also maintains, ladies and gentlemen, the linguistic balance between the official languages of Galicia, with which it is also applying with a very good normality. I would also like to highlight in this area an issue that was very novel by LOMCE in high school and also in Bachelor's degree: the good welcome he had in the Greek educational centers by the professor the possibility of offering free-setting materials both autonomous and center. Focusing on the subjects of free self-configuration – among which are, for example, oratory and chess, which have been promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group in the absence of parliamentary agreements – we have to say that in this area of free configuration matters we have more than 12,000 pupils – in particular 12,386 students and students of ESO and bacharelate – who are studying subjects of free self-configuration. For example, in ESO we have 2,722 students, in research and information processing, we have 3,141 students; in programming, 1,785 students; in promoting healthy lifestyles, 1,629 students; in chess, 684 students; in financial education, 263 students. I mean, these are subjects that were first placed this year in the academic curriculum of the centers, that are receiving a very good demand from the students and that are oriented, as you have just seen, to give specialized training in subjects that have to do with fundamental aspects of the life in society of our future students. Also in Bachelor's degree: anthropology, 1,076 students; robotics, 341 students; Hispanic literature, for example, 96 students. In addition to these free configuration materials, each centre was also able to offer its own free configuration materials, contributing to designing specific curricula according to the needs of each centre and reinforcing everything that has to do with center autonomy. In some cases these hours of free configuration were also used to reinforce fundamental aspects of learning, some centers chose to strengthen mathematics, to strengthen languages or other subjects. Well, until now I've offered a quantitative view of large numbers of the education system in Galicia, its functioning and its adaptation to the current legislation, but I've also wanted to deepen on a question that we understand vital to understand the progress that has been made in recent years in the education system and that has to do with the educational model. In Galicia in recent years we have been promoting an educational model of our own, an educational model that has enabled the teaching of Galicia in recent years to live a true silent revolution, not only in the field of professional promotion but in the whole of the educational system, which has enabled both to guarantee its viability and to advance in equity, to advance in innovation and to move forward in modernity. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a good educational system that we should be proud of, among all of us, to help prestigious. Do we have things to improve? Of course, but we have a good education system. This new education system is based on four pillars: equal access to opportunities for the benefits of education, modernization in the field of languages, technology and coexistence. Equal access to opportunities for education is fundamental, understanding that education is the main point in ensuring equal opportunities for citizens. In this area we have four lines of work and the first one has to do with compulsory schooling. We have to say that, in this academic course, 95.7% of the student who applied for a three-year term got place in the educational center that put him as the first option; that is, the vast majority of students – 95.7% – got place in that center that he applied for as the first option, which means that the offer of squares is very suited to the needs and demands of citizens and people. We have to think that not long ago this data was very low, very low, and I don't want to insist on it. We must also say that the squares offered in this regard are sufficient and meet the needs of families. Second, a fairer and more supportive teaching, also understanding that teaching, as a public policy, is a mechanism of equalizing incomes, a mechanism of genuine social justice, where efforts and assistance to those families who need it are becoming the prime priority of the Administration. I'm going to highlight a number of specific lines of work: Help on school material. In this academic course, 83,385 people – students and students – were entitled to an autonomous administration aid of EUR 50 per month for families who, let's say, have lower economic levels, lower purchasing power. I mean, we're talking about 83,385 students who directly benefited from the check for school materials processed in educational centres and who were able to cash it in libraries for educational materials, so we're making a positive measure of discrimination for families with less resources. Solidarity fund of books. Despite its attempt to depress it, we have to say that it was collected in the whole educational centers 216.146 manuals for third and fifth primary and second and fourth ESO. These solidarity funds are complemented by direct aids that were given to families to buy books, so we're talking about 90,640 direct aids that were provided to families to buy books. By the way, both the help to buy books and the help to buy school materials were complementary, a matter that must also be emphasized. Third axis in this field: improvements in the skills of students. Here I would like to highlight an aspect that we understand is very important for the quality of education of the student and for the progress of the student, the school libraries. Galicia may also be proud of its network of school libraries, it is a pride and we must thank its leaders, the good network of school libraries we have in Galicia. The projects and programmes promoted – such as the PLAMBE Plan, the LIA Plan, etc. – allow a large number of students – in particular, 174,000 students in 575 educational centres – to have the opportunity to be in these plans. And there's a result: in recent years we have a remarkable evolution and improvement in something as important to the student's educational process as reading understanding, which is largely due to projects promoted in school libraries. We also understand that this improvement in reading understanding is very important for equal opportunities between students. Programme contracts. We have 355 educational centres with program contracts where different lines of work are developed aimed at promoting students' key competences. Within this range of lines of work, I would like to highlight that line which is aimed at strengthening and reducing school failure. In this sense, I also believe that it can be said normally that in Galicia in recent years – from 2009 to the present – has been reducing school failure, not as in other times – between 2005 and 2009 – in which instead of decreasing, it would increase. In this sense, we understand that program contracts are also a work tool of great interest to teachers, families and students. Fourth piar: a more equitable teaching with more attention to diversity. We understand that equity, true equity, is giving each student what he really needs according to his merits and his educational needs, we do not understand equity as a coffee for all; I believe that this is a difference between some interventions that we will surely see and the planning, in this case, of the People's Party and the Government of the Union of Galicia. We understand that fairness has to be geared to each specific case in order to try to benefit especially those students who have more learning difficulties. One more year – and this academic course is one more year – we are applying Decree 229/2011, of attention to diversity, and the application of this legislation is creating in the authentic educational centers inclusive borders and moving decisively towards more inclusive education. I want to be positive about something that we must also feel proud of as a country, we must feel proud of the Galician Educational Guidance Network, which is undoubtedly one of the best in the state. We have 3,500 professionals – caregivers, PT, AEDES, sign language teachers, teachers in collaboration with ONCE – that is, we have 3,300 professionals dedicated to promoting inclusive education. Without a doubt, one of the best networks in the state and they would already like many autonomous communities to be able to present this balance sheet. They would also like many autonomous communities to be able to maintain the PROA and maintain the program contracts, which are maintained in Galicia with their own resources. Basically, these projects and these programs are oriented towards those students with more learning difficulties. And, no doubt, all of this is getting better every day. Without going further, this academic course also signed agreements with associations to guarantee school lunch and transportation to special education centres, so we can say that it is clearly moving towards more inclusive education. Also in this course, it's moving towards modernization. This modernization is mainly measured by multilingualism, by learning English, by having more languages and also by new technologies. In the field of languages, we are correcting a historical deficit in the Spanish educational system and language learning, which is allowing more opportunities for the Greeks in the future and also extending a measure of social equity. We can say that more than 75% of public-funded educational centres participate in some of the actions of the Foreign Language Empowerment Plan, we can say that four out of every 100 students in compulsory education – i.e. around 90,000 – benefit directly from some activities that have to do with bilingual sections, multilingual centers, language schools training, foreign stays, etc. I would like to highlight three aspects: on the one hand, the Multilingual Centre Network is increasing this year, this academic course, with 30 new incorporations, we're talking about 257 schools and we're talking about 36,000 students. There are more bilingual sections, we're already in 3,630 bilingual sections, which means about 53,300 students studying in bilingual sections. We're also talking about native conversation assistants, people who come to facilitate the contact of Galician students with their native language, and we're talking about 454 auxiliaries that are shared by the whole of the Galician geography: by large municipalities, by cities, by medium municipalities, by small towns and also by schools in rural space. Finally, we are betting in a way determined by language learning. We are also developing in this academic course a mandate from this Parliament: we are developing the Peace Andrade Law and we can say that the learning of Portuguese is reaching more than 50 centres and more than 1,800 students, with which we have, in this case, a parliamentary mandate and is also modernizing learning and betting on language learning. Modernization also has to do with technologies, with the application of technologies to the education process. It is obvious that we are in a society where, increasingly, technologies and their use are present in all areas of our life and we understand that school is the first place where – together with the family, obviously – students, children, have to interact, have to yield to new technologies, they have to know that new technologies are not just to play or to entertain, which are mainly to learn and offer a wide range of possibilities for learning and education. That's why if we continue this year with the Abalar Project – I said earlier, we're talking about 52,000 students. We also wagered and doubled in this case the number of students who are included in the digital book program, that is, E-Dixgal; we talk about 104 educational centers - over 100 educational centers - and we're talking about the increase in 20, there are 20 new schools that are increasing – 6,000 students – and, above all, what we're doing is opening a line for the future because, we burn it or not, the new technologies are inserted in our life. Fourth to lose this educational process: coexistence. This is a more qualitative aspect, but we understand that it is a qualitative aspect that is key to success in school and is also key to the integral development of students. This course that we started just over a month ago is the first course in which the Welsh Strategy is being implemented for school cohabitation, the so-called Educonvives.gal. This was approved by the Galician Conselo de Convivencia in September of this year and it is true that we did not start from anything, there was a path already made that began with the approval, in 2011, of the Law on Cohabitation and Participation and for its subsequent development: the General Protocol on Prevention, Detection and Treatment of School Harassment, by the Decree of Cohabitation itself already cited, or also by the first Protocol on Autonomic Level that has to do with ADHD, with the disorder due to deficit of care and hyperactivity. In Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, there is no serious problem of cohabitation, there are points that obviously need to be addressed and corrected, but having and ensuring a good environment, a good climate in the classroom is an indispensable factor and there all the teachers agree, it is an essential factor in improving the quality of education, in order to ensure school success, in order to facilitate teaching and also to have a truly inclusive education. Educonves, the Galician Strategy of Coexistence, looks at a series of goals. First, to enhance the training and coordination of all actors involved in the educational process: teachers, families, teachers, other institutions, etc. It also seeks to disseminate the good practices and successful cases that exist to improve the climate in class in Galicia. It also seeks – and this is very important – to have a good diagnosis of the panorama in the sphere of coexistence in Galicia, so that this academic course will be launched a specific survey of what I will later discuss in concrete terms. It also seeks to enhance the creation of instruments that enable centres to develop their coexistence plans and also to define through different protocols everything that has to do with the learning processes of groups with difficulties. With respect to the first paragraph of the paragraph, action is already in progress. In the field of training and coordination we have the annual teacher training plan, which is geared to specific plans and, to some extent, to specific plans for coexistence. We also have a line of work and materials to foster relationships and collaboration between families and centers, we're building a network of schools of parents and mothers, and we're also enhancing everything that has to do with school mediation. Also in the dissemination of good practices and successful cases, which we see as important in generating a culture in the field of coexistence, it must be remembered that the board promotes a European project, Arbax, which is geared towards combating school failure. We also have different spaces and resources that are geared towards improving the scope of coexistence. Obviously, in order to be able to plan and to have accurate and real knowledge of the situation in our classrooms it is necessary to have information. And to have the information, to have a good diagnosis, we're going to drive a large-volume survey -- we're talking about over 500,000 surveys and, of course, it's the widest ever done in this matter -- that's going to be made available to students, teachers, families, directors, non-teachers and that will allow us to have a very good X-ray of the situation of educational centres in the field, of course, of coexistence. We've already done a pilot survey, that pilot survey that was done in November, we've been able to fix a roadmap and now we're going to launch this survey macro which will undoubtedly enable us to have real and accurate data about the coexistence of the entire educational system. From there, we can plan, from there, educational centres can also develop their own living plans that will be based on the autonomy of the centers themselves and will also be based on solving the specific characteristics and peculiarities of each of the centers. Finally, we will have information and, from it, we will be able to create instruments that educational institutions can encourage to have a better framework in which to develop educational activity. [[Applause]] In addition, I would also like to highlight another important aspect or which we understand is very important: to address the concerns of the educational community in very specific areas. That is why we are preparing a series of protocols that are very much demanded by teachers, directors, families and that are, above all, protocols that will solve many problems, that will solve specific situations and improve the quality of life and, of course, the quality of teaching to those people who will be able to benefit from the application of these protocols. We are talking first of all about a protocol of guidance to ensure gender equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity. We're talking about a protocol of action in health emergencies and educational care for students with chronic diseases, with their corresponding household and diabetes caregivers. We are also working on the comprehensive protocol for the protection of personal data and digital identity, which will, of course, entail compliance with the Organic Data Protection Act and also responds to an agreement by this House. We are also facing the development of a protocol on autism to help autism students, also taking into account a parliamentary mandate and also responding to a family demand. All of this, these four protocols that we're developing and which are at a high level of xordinating the results of the dialogue with the groups involved. In fact, we are constantly talking to the groups involved, they are part of the elaboration of these protocols and what we are looking for, what we are looking for in these protocols, is solving specific problems and giving better quality of life and better educational quality to people who can fit into these protocols. In addition, and within the framework of this strategy of coexistence, we will collaborate with the General Secretariat of Equality in fulfilling the resolution of the last autonomous debate on the establishment of an equal education plan. I mean, with all these performances we're making a clear bet, by the council and by the Galician board, to have an inclusive school, a school for all and for all. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, with my presentation it is obvious that Galicia has a good education system. We can feel proud of him, and I repeat with all humility, we have a good educational system. What is possible to improve? Of course. What do we have to keep working? Of course. But Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has a good education system. We obviously have to keep working, and for that we have to keep going deep into the lines. Now to finish, I would like to thank in this first intervention for the work done by the board executive team that I am honored to conduct, by the territorial heads, by the inspection and guidance teams and, above all, by the work of the teaching staff and not a teacher who works for the council. Together, together with the families, we were able to have a course start this academic year with total normality, a course start where, as in previous years, as a main roadmap is the quality and fairness of the education system. As a counselor, as a politician and also as a father, I join the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks that we feel we are proud of Galician education, of the Greek education system. Look, you don't doubt, ladies and gentlemen, you criticise him, but you don't doubt that in recent years, the teaching of Greek has improved much, the educational results have been improved; it has advanced towards a more inclusive teaching, more socially fair; it has advanced towards a teaching that is more suited to modernity, appropriate to new times, a teaching where resources have been streamlined – it has been done more with less – where we have been able to make available to many what was before only a few and where the merit of all this process that has been there in recent years – in quantitative and qualitative indicators, in indicators compared to other autonomous communities or with other countries, it is seen that it is improving – is the merit of everyone. This is not a merit of the Educational Administration, it is not a merit of the Government and it is not a merit of the politicians but it is a merit of the teachers, it is a merit of the families, it is a merit of the management teams, of the inspection services and, together, of the entire large family that forms the education system in Galicia. In short, do we have any problems? Of course. Do we have to keep working? Of course. But I think that if you're working on the right line, you've worked and worked on the right line. I think it's fair, very fair, to admit that Galicia has a good education system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u26	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u27	Thank you, President. What balance does Mr. Román, the Education Counsellor, of the 2015-2016 course! Let me read the balance sheet that the users of the education system, the ANPAS galegas, who, through a statement, denounce disorganization as to the management and information on textbooks and school material. This course is the first after the so-called establishment of solidarity funds, a procedure that has left many families and caused an overload of work for the management teams, which still today do not solve the needs of those who had the right to books but did not receive them because there was not enough. The users of the food banks, Counsellor, are increasing at the beginning of the course because of the economic effort that families are required to acquire school materials for their children. I don't know if you read the information. This shows the enormous errors of the administrative structure in the management of the return of cheque-market books in the previous course. It's too far from being exact and strict, because if they demand books from those who haven't bought them, they charge other people with materials and they turn the family into responsibility to excuse what a chaotic administration couldn't organize. In its communiqué, ANPAs continue to insist that it is necessary and that it must continue to claim the universal and free loan, because that system is the only one that guarantees effective management of public goods and its distribution, along with the addition of educational values of participation, reuse and collaboration. They also call on ANPAs to separate the teaching functions of administrations and to provide sufficient, differentiated and independent staff in each function. They also consider it essential to continue to demand that decisions on school materials, textbooks, etc. It must be organized and coordinated by the Council, respecting, without a doubt, the right of each teacher to choose the teaching material he needs, but preventing the existence of such peculiarities as educational centres from being commonly applicable. In addition, they also express – and this so that they do not say that these ANPA mistreat the teachers of education – their gratitude to the professionals of education, who, knowing that it is not their role, are forced by an inoperative administration to compensate for their work for the errors outside and because they are these professionals the only solid basis that sustains that the education system still works. With regard to the incorporation of odd secondary and undergraduate courses, they denounce the delay in the preparation and publication of curricula, the non-existent collaboration with teachers' and teachers' clauses, the lack of information to families and the absolute lack of respect for the student himself who was going to be called upon to change for the inevitable. All of this made everyone involved sailing independently for a start of the course that aims to mark the educational future of our society. It's not just the ANPA, the view you've expressed here is only that of you, the rest of the collectives at the educational center don't think the same thing, Counsellor. Labour Commissions reports that the professor did not meet until June 29, published in the Official Journal of Galicia, the ESO curriculum and Bachelor's degree. In Galicia, the order by which the curriculum of autonomic configuration materials was established was not published until July 21. These are dates when the teacher is no longer in the centers. The Resolution in which instructions are given for the implementation of the ESO curriculum and bacharelate was published on July 29. He denounces Labour Commissions, this class union, that the Administration has played with the times in an interesting way by applying these orders already advanced the non-lethal summer period, in order to prevent protests and opposition from teachers and to prevent the development of curricula of free configuration materials for the centers. At this point, most families don't know why their daughters study applied or academic mathematics, nor do they imagine how much they're going to condition. They don't know that religion is now their alternative – they are evaluable materials – and they had to decide the subject matter of free configuration in baccalaureate on absolute improvisation and change the registration by circumstances survived by the matter they were changing into inviolable because there was not enough registration or because directly the administration did not authorize them. This course, Counsellor, starts with sixty-four fewer units in children and primary throughout Galicia, especially, as always, in the abused half-rural Galician. This means one hundred and sixteen teaching professionals less. There are hundreds of displacements and suppressions, losing more than sixty catalogue squares in primary and more than three hundred professional displacements from all bodies. Affinity is also increased, both in primary and secondary schools, with more than 200 teachers and teachers imparting related subjects and more than a thousand teachers giving subjects from which they are not specialists. Attention to primary diversity is undermined and reduced with an unfilled beginning of course to fill vacancies announced in hearing and language and therapeutic pedagogy, due to an adjustment in adjudication with economic criteria and not taking into account the actual needs of the centres. Attention to diversity is also deteriorating in secondary schools because of the low staffing capacity. And this, in addition to the extension of the teaching schedule, has resulted in the removal of all quality elements from LOXSE: supports, reinforcements, deployments. Provisional mobility was also increased among teachers of different bodies. About 10 percent of conservatory squares are occupied by professionals who don't belong to them. There is insufficient market supply in the FP, relocation of the basic FP supply – this is very serious for rural – so peripheral municipalities lose it largely; lack of material resources for the development of the basic FP professional teachings in centres where no cycle is provided and therefore lack previous staffing; professor who continues without charging for the summer; increase in employment temporality – the inter-internity rates, Counsellor, exceed 12% – and, of course, the announcement of the 100% replacement rate clearly responds to electoral interests. Why? Because it's an insufficient measure. Why? Because nearly 3,000 jobs have not been recovered since you run – 3,000 jobs! – so it is really essential to eliminate the replacement rate and establish a public employment recovery plan. You are in such a hurry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The surveys of forthcoming electoral processes are not favorable to them – however much they applaud their xenophobics and racist ideological fellows in Europe their leader, Mr. Mariano – so this law is short-tracked, a law that endangers public education and, above all, rural public education and attacks without mercy on equal opportunities. Dimitan, go away. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u28	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u29	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. We return to the total normality which, for the seventh consecutive course, has just been announced from this stage by the counsellor. Sorted attention, enough teaching template adjusted to demands and with the always present that it has been done more with less. Return, with all due respect, Counselor, to the usual: advertising and propaganda for the seventh time, it's already the seventh time. The former advisor announced last year that he was his sex, now we go to the seventh and hope, for the sake of public education, to be the last. He even announces the counsellor a large-volume survey at the disposal of the centres. We are ahead of a course that has begun for some time now, but it is not an ordinary course nor is it a new course, the previous course has already been a wide-ranging response from the educational community of Galicia against a law, the LOMCE, which is totally detrimental to the interests of the educational quality of public education in Greek. This year is the second year of implementation of LOMCE, finished the entire primary year and started with ESO and baccalaureate. We have already seen that the new course has also begun with a broad response from the educational community and that will continue when attempting to put these famous evaluations, now from the third and sixth, and those forgotten revals of the period of franchise that they may wish to return. So we are not facing any course, we are facing the seventh course of the Feijóo era, we are in the second application of a harmful law in our teaching which, without having developed the necessary regulations for its implementation, has caused absolute uncertainty and confusion in the teacher and even in the student. There was a lack of training, guidance and information to teachers on the criteria and formulations of the new programmes of this course. I'm going to set an example because it's all right: there's a center that was going out a few days ago in the paper on Earth Tea that said that I couldn't take optional courses because of a teacher's failure and even that I couldn't offer the basic FP, having enough students for it, because of a teacher's failure and not only in this course, but throughout the Tea Land. Then the councillor says here there's an offer for everyone. You will return, Counsellor, the answers of the educational community against the segregation of the student who implants the famous LOMCE. Of total normality, Counselor, nothing at all. This is the seventh time we are facing cuts to public education. I don't know if he'll do the concert anymore, but he'll do less public education for having less resources and less teachers, that's true. The Greek Public Education Platform started this year by denouncing, at the beginning of the course, the lack of teachers, the massed classes, the lack of means in the centers, the educational chaos by the application of LOMCE, the lack of knowledge of the subjects to be carried out, the hours and the beginning of the course itself. Mr Counsellor, many educational communities, ANPA, at the beginning of the course, have spoken out before your Councillor seeking a solution to serious problems. Remember? The CEIP of Pino, Vite, Cabana, Rianxo, Castro, Lointra, Ames, Perillo and many others. It is true that, on the basis of claim, some patch has been made, but many problems continue. And we're talking about problems like, for example, that of the CEIP in Vite, near Santiago, a center for students with functional diversity, a center that seven years ago with half of the students in need of help had the same support that you have today. Thirty-three days, Counsellor, claiming the parents and mothers of this center solutions to attention to this diversity in which you said here is a raccoon that Galician Union was a pioneer. He sends the resources he needs the students who need him the most. What is the reality, Counselor, of doing more with less? What else are public schools shut down? This year's forty-eight units. They do less, yes, in concert and in private, in which they curiously open themselves twenty-six. In the public we closed and in private we opened: five primary and twenty-one FP, because it must be there when the business is denied to the public school itself in the cities open several offers in the FP and instead the concert is opening. Thirty-seven units closed in the public in the last four years, Counsellor, two hundred and fifteen open in concert and in private. More is done in private and less in public, Counselor. The teacher is reduced, causing a lot of conflicts in the centers, massification in many classrooms, rural groupings, not replacement of the teacher for less than fifteen days. At the beginning of the course it was reported that there are about 3,000 fewer school places in the Feijóo era, 300 centres without the provision of teachers needed to offer a good public education and 200 units with the number of students above the legal ratio established. It's true that there are more guides than many years ago, it couldn't be any other way; but it's also true that 60% of the named guides share one, two, three or even more centers. Continuous complaints of absence of professor of therapeutic pedagogy, hearing and language, claim of caregivers in schools for students who need such attention. Starts a new course that marches the teaching of Greek, Counsellor, marches the teaching of Greek, because it continues the dramatic retreat of teaching of Greek. It continues to impose a decree of multilingualism, which of plurilingualism I don't know if it will have much, but to eliminate our language as you understand it. Linguistic balance is called upon by the Counsellor to remove teaching in our language in childhood education, linguistic balance is called by the Counsellor to prohibit Greek in scientific-technical matters, linguistic balance is called by the Counsellor to delete in the FP or our language. Counselor, we are by language learning, but not by giving up what our parents, grandparents and those who came before us. Counsellor, on the basis of the manifesto promoted by the Bureau by Linguistic Standardization in favor of the use of our language, is it not time to repeal the Decree of Plurilingualism and adopt another standard that leads to the full normalization of teaching in English? Counsellor, have you considered any measures to defend the use of our language in the face of the latest complaints about their discrimination in schools and even in children's schools? Mr. Counselor spoke – and I'm short of time and I'm not going to reply to everything he has proposed – that there continues a serious problem to our understanding. He calls it "coffee for all," we call it "right for basic and compulsory education to be free." Because, Counselor, with the same money you use to pay a few books, with the universal loan system you could guarantee the full freedom of all textbooks. But the counsellor here makes a series of numbers that he's not interested in keeping something strange. Mr. Counsellor says that there are enough squares offered, and it is being reported that there are 3,000 applications, 3,000!, in childhood education that can't be attended this course in public school. In FP, 4,000 students can't do the requested cycle because there's no way to do it either. And he talks – and I'm going to finish, Counselor – that you're in favour of thanking the entire teaching staff. It could not be any less, and we shared that gratitude, but I would also recommend to the Counsellor that, in order to thank him for this recognition, he begin by restoring the socio-work rights of the professor, not only the economics, but those that were withdrawn from him; but also the economics, that loss accumulated in the Feijóo era, which goes between 24,000 and 42,000 euros lost by the professor. He also likes work on the economics. And I'm going to finish, because it seems to us very well, Counselor, who starts with protocols for equality, for home care, for diabetes. We regret that when the Parliamentary Group of the BNG brought it to Parliament on repeated occasions in the Committee on Education, you voted against it. And we regret that a mother has to appear in the press claiming home education for her sick child of cancer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u30	Finish it, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u31	It turns out, Counsellor, that we too, the Parliamentary Group, defend the right to a public education, of quality and free for all students, also for the sick student. But those protocols regret that they are brought in now when we're in the year of elections and they haven't brought them before, when it has often been tried in this Parliament to give it a solution and the People's Party voted against. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u32	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. We have warned, Mr. Counsellor, from the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, that a certain bad conscience in his appearance, for it was an absolutely defensive appearance. He wrote his speech based on the allegations of opposition groups, on the complaints of citizenship, which is a bad symptom, certainly a bad symptom. I agree with you, absolutely coincide with you in one thing: the start of the course was carried out with total normality, with normality, with an amazing normality. Because you've been cutting off completely normal, and it's been seven years. That's why, for you, the course started normally. But nothing that is happening, Counselor, is considered normal by the citizenry, because it cannot be, Counselor. During the month of August – during the summer period – you announced the closure of 13 schools and 82 classes, mainly in rural areas. The balance of these seven years has already reached the 532 closed classes in rural areas and the 103 missing schools in our country. And that's for Alternative Left Galicia is not and can never be normal, because it's an irreparable, irreparable loss for our country, and that's leading to the extermination of our rural education, which is not only missing and missing life and exit options in which it has to do with its productive tissues, but also in defense of essential public services such as education. In this legislation that ends, Counsellor, in addition to these closures of schools, you bring EUR 1 billion to private education, Counsellor, EUR 1 billion, a real barbarity, while schools are being closed in rural areas. You've recognized the disappearance of 1,250 teaching squares, this is equivalent to 1 million hours of teaching, 1 million hours of teaching. And what were those teachers doing during those hours of teaching? For they were not handcuffed, Counselor, sitting beside the table of those children who had and had more difficulties. They were working out, articulating more individualized attention for those students who need it most. They applied support to educational reinforcements where necessary. They coordinated, planned and carried out complementary educational activities: library, theatre, sports... activities that allow precisely an educational inclusion of those children who also have more difficulties. All this was lost, and lost irrecoverably. That's why we understand that's not even normal. And the situation in this course starts out as a result of his evil management, of the evil management of this government. We have 27%, almost 1 out of every 3 high school teachers, who teach in a matter of which they are not specialists. We have Latin teachers teaching in Greek, math teachers teaching music, philosophy teachers teaching English. That's the identity of the quality of teaching that you defend. And we have 12% of an interim rate, when we get to lower it to 4.8%. You exceeded the basic interim rate set at 5%, and not only doubled it but it reached 12% in reality. We have an increase in itineraries of teachers, teachers and teachers who teach in more than one school on the same day. And that's the result, Counselor. For families it is not normal to have to spend an average of 700 euros in September to be able to school their children, and to pay for textbooks, school materials, the dining room, extra-school activities and a long et cetera, which in many cases leads them to go hungry and apply for loans in order to start school. But the problems of our centers, Counselor, are not only as a result of the lack of material and human resources, but you have put up an organisational chaos in the centers with your fear of getting ahead of the already insurmountable LOMCE. They published the Curriculum Decree in June, the Order of Choices in July, and the professor today is still in many cases finishing the vigour programming, the product of his delays. And what can we say about the famous revals, Counselor? I'm not going to abound in this appearance in its segregating character, but, Counselor, have you seen the report of the 3rd primary revals sent to the families? Have you seen this report? It has two crosses: competition in linguistic communication and mathematical competition. This was the great report that the families were going to receive on their students' performance, and that it was essential to have this information by the families, who clearly rejected these revalids. Two crosses is the result of this report, absolutely unnecessary report and, of course, lack of data for families. Do you know, Counsellor, that an average student in our country may have to pass up to eight external tests during your schooling? PISA, PIRLS, TIMSS, ICCS, EECL, 3rd revalide, 6th revalide, and ESO revalide. Eight external revals to be able to certify what, Counselor? [[Murmurs.]] Two crosses? One on the front and the other on the back, that's what their revals suppose. And what can we say about college, Counselor? Have you seen the report submitted by the Court of Auditors on the universities in our country? The Greek universities, according to that report by the Court of Auditors, lost 17.6 % of their funding in the first legislate, EUR 123.9 million that lost the Greek universities, Counsellor. We exceed 9 points the loss of funding from the state average. In that we are also leaders, unfortunately. Normality, Counselor; let me tell you that your normality, from my point of view, is aberrant, is absolutely aberrant. This is, Mr. Rodríguez, your first start of the course, and you have introduced yourself as a new education advisor with a new print, a student print applied, to develop the speech of the recovery where the Government begins. But the reality is that you are proving yourself a student copy – allow me to express myself – a student copy and the bad ones. You look at yourself, you defended the abolition of the universal loan system of textbooks, and you defended it to establish a cheque-book system. But then he announced the creation of a book bank, which was exactly what the families were doing to patch up their system. And you announced as an absolutely progressive measure that an autonomous government creates a book bank, a charity model to patch up the cuts that you yourself have implemented. In the face of the criticism we made the opposition – because the aid system left out the school material – you announced a 50-euro check system so that families could buy the school material; 50 euros help for a couple who, for example, have a child and do not exceed 675 euros each of them – the wage of poverty – give those families 50 euros to buy the material. You plagiarized, you've come to plagiarism, the proposal of the Gaga de Left Alternative to create a cultural bond, which you devalued to turn it into a measure that is absolutely lacking in real incidence to develop culture. He also advocated our initiative of a film recovery plan, because the situation in which the exhibition halls were held in Galicia is of course depressing. But it didn't make it a really important initiative. And all those proposals came from the force of AGE, which in theory we are "the force of no," we are that axis of evil, right? Well, you, as a student applied at your parliamentary stage, plagiarized them, but, of course, you devalued them. Counselor, you spoke of many stones today. I lost myself in the pier room, I don't know if you did it because I noticed you talking about the pier. Because beeping you've been a lot worse, but the truth is it's done very little. What's happening, Counselor, in our education system is not normal, it's aberrant, because if you're paying attention to the basic right to education, and that's something that, of course, we shouldn't allow in our country. I don't know if what you meant when you said the start of the course was normal, what is in your case is simply recurrence. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u35	Well, today it seems to have come voluntarily, not through the ear today, you come voluntarily. Well, thank you, president. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good morning. You will understand perfectly, Counselor, that my intervention today does not go too far in the arguments regarding the interpellation I did to you about a month ago, at that moment it was indeed the beginning of a course. I didn't understand, Counselor, a month ago you wouldn't be here to talk about the start of the course when it happened, which was in September. And I don't understand why he comes here today to talk about a course that took place fifty days ago. Counselor, in politics, as in life, forms are very important. I believe – and so I told you on September 30 – that the time to attend was that, as I believe today – and so I say – that at this moment you are present at the moment. And I am absolutely convinced that you will come here to cover up the absence of your new government comrades and colleagues, who have to appear today before this Parliament. And I'm talking about the new advisors and advisors; and they didn't, Mr. Education Counsellor. In any case, you're here and, don't worry, we're not going to waste the moment on the Socialist Group and the opportunity it gives us to talk about the Welsh education and its difficulties, of course. My intention today will be to focus on being able to contrast the state of health with what our education system is about, and you've given a lot of figures today. I will do so as I always do, Mr. Rodríguez, putting on the table criticisms and proposals, as it corresponds to a party which today is the main party in the opposition in this Parliament but which legitimately aspires – even though it makes you very kind – to be a government, both here in Galicia and in Madrid. One thing is that Sarkozy, Merkel, Cameron or Berlusconi come here and applaud the policies they do; and another very different is what people on foot will vote for in the next general election on December 20th, at the same time. I will put you on the table again today, Counselor – although you never thank him – viable, sensible proposals that can be met. For that is exactly what we are asked to do here the different members of the education community in Galicia. Counsellor, we have the second course of the LOMCE era, and we have it – say what you say – going on with more defects and problems than we have reported the previous year. Say what you say, there was haste; say what you say, there was improvisation; and, say what you say, there was a certain chapuza. And there is discomfort in the education community in Galicia: management teams, ANPAs, teachers, teaching unions... and also say what you say, they still lack human and material resources in many Greek centers. And it's not like this humble spokesman of the Socialist Group says - and that should be much more important to you - the ANPA, the professor, the management teams and the trade unions most representative of our teaching. You spoke today of many positive things, and you do well to do so – you do well to do so, Counselor – for some even share and I do not mind telling you. I have no problem recognizing when things are good, and in criticizing them, Counselor, when they're bad. He also knows that I like to face problems and not talk about problems in abstract. You and your team have been acting like a taped disk – and today you've done it again – during last September talking about a totally normal course start. And today you insisted very much on that normality. I'm testifying to what you said by the education community in Galicia. And I still remember how last Thursday the director general himself, Mr. Corredoira, when I asked him for a moratorium on the development of secondary and bachelor's education programmings to him, it didn't seem relevant to him. I ask you again today at the plenary session of this Parliament, to give you a moratorium so that the Greek professor can make the new teaching schedules in time and in form. There you want to listen to me or not, but there's trouble with that theme in the educational community. There is also – although they say what they say – lack of staff in many centres, there was chapuza – they also say what they say, Counsellor – with the management they have made of the textbooks, and in the implementation they have also made of the secondary and graduate decrees, this issue that has a great difficulty in the development of teaching programming, schedules and also of the registration itself in educational centers. Counsellor, next Thursday, we will discuss the budgets of your advice and the Socialist Group believes that it must be a turning point to begin to address the difficulties our education system has because of the austerity policies carried out in recent years. By just indication of those friends of Mr. Rajoy who came to Madrid last week to scream without the slightest redness and with deep ignorance of the feeling of the Greek citizenship live Mariano! But no, no mistake called, 20D won't vote Sarkozy, it won't vote Cameron, Merkel, Berlusconi or Berlusconi; on December 20, we'll vote for the citizens of this country. The truth is that in the time that you take office the only important change I have observed is your kind and correct ways, Counselor, but there has been no other change worthy of mention in our country's educational, cultural or linguistic policy. You know better than anyone – he is a great expert in education, Mr. Counsellor – that the cuts produced in the Greek education system since 2009 have produced important consequences; consequences that you have always tried to hide with the mantra that it was possible to do more with less, and today repeated it here to satiety. But reality is tough, Counsellor, we have less resources for scholarships, we have less resources for compensatory education, we have fewer teachers, and are willing to leave as soon as they can retire because they are discouraged and discouraged. You have handled the topic of textbooks in a bad way – and it is not like me to tell you, ask in the centers, please, Mr. Counsellor –, they set off in a hurry and run the basic FP without putting on a single euro – and I will say it again today, without putting on a single euro the past course. And this week Mr. Corredeira told me that every student will receive a computer in the next few days, although probably the needs in basic FP centers are not just computers but other types of materials and equipment. And what do you say, Counsellor, of the consequences that this deployment will have for the student currently enrolled in the second grade of the basic FP for the purpose of achieving a possible qualification in secondary education? It's very easy to fix, listen to what I'm saying today, talk to the Minister of Education and get that thing done. It's just a matter of changing an article of a decree. I also want to reiterate to you today, Counselor, that the humble achievements – and I know you don't like the word humble – in recent years have been possible thanks to a teacher who in a difficult situation has been able to achieve these humble advances. And I think they are important – not to be denied – but humble progress in a difficult moment; of course, in a moment of great cuts. You prefer to speak more pompously of silent revolution, and today, again, you did. And so far he was always talking about vocational training, now he's been extending it to the entire Greek education system. And of course, yes, Counselor, I am to admit today that Galicia has improved, as not their education. But you will understand that I want to compare myself with the best and not with the worst results, and that we could talk a lot about, and also about why these same results, about the starting situations of one and another, or about the productive tissues of one autonomous and other communities. It is true that Galicia comes out well in relation to some, but it goes wrong in relation to others, and all that under the same law. I want us to compare ourselves to the Basque Country, to Navarre, to Aragon, to Castela-León, to Rioxa, to Cantabria or to Asturias. Or, if you prefer, I want us to meet Finland or France, not Mexico. You choose whom you want to compare and never forget that they've been managing education in Galicia for twenty-five of the last thirty years. Counsellor, in education, magic and miracle issues are raised; in education things are achieved with patience, with means, with stability, with respect and with deep appreciation for the teacher. Galicia has improved its education in recent years, it would lack more!, and I won't be the one to deny it, Counselor, because I live in Galicia, work in Galicia and I wish the Greek education system to go very well, because I went out of it and I'm going back to it. Counsellor, you know very well that for the Socialist Group – and I honestly believe that for you – the fairness of the education system is very important, and today I am glad that you talked about this a lot. Counsellor, I have strongly criticized the implementation of LOMCE in Galicia and the success with the management of textbooks. And I've often told him that a decent country can't allow a single child to go to class without books and school materials, and I'm still affirming the same question today. What they did with the theme of the books was to upset the educational community, stop dwindling the partridge, recover the universal loan system that reached 100 percent of the population. And if they want to do it with the digital book, perfect, but they guarantee that nobody goes to class without books. Counselor, it seems that austerity is coming to an end, it seems that this year's bills – as we will have the chance to see next Thursday – paint something better, since you will have about 100 million euros more than in 2015. And if that's the case, we're going to have to save equity, continue to improve the results, recover the qualifications of the professor, and not just in the election campaign, recover the costs of running the centers, teaching equipment, face RAM works where they couldn't address and correct seriously, not with propaganda, the digital divide. And it's also very important to recover the hundreds of lost teacher squares in recent years. And for that, you call a powerful public job offer and do it with enough time so people can be sure of the horizon of preparation. To do such things, Counselor, you know you can always count on the Socialist Group. You can't count on us for advertising and bombing. Thank you very much in this first round, and I expect some further reflection for my second round of intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u36	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Farínas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we attend your appearance, an agile appearance, a dense appearance, full of good news for the Greek education system, and very bad news for the opposition speakers, who, as they said, indeed repeat arguments but this time as the family orchestra who was going to play a country party, who when the repertoire was finished said to them, my father, what do we do now? [[Murmurs.]] Nothing, boy, we played the same ones again, but it loads the trumpet, which these music don't understand. And we are the ones who understand music, and we are the ones who present an alternative model that works, which drew the data from where they were in this country called Galicia with our system. They didn't like the one in the country called Galicia... nor did they pay attention. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are before two models, and you like them, which is theirs, precisely what didn't work, which didn't work out; and what you didn't do precisely, Mr. Vázquez, with that of the right to education. Because the right to education requires education, it collects results and obtains the best number of titles at the end of each educational process. And that's what didn't happen, just what is happening now, that gets better at all indices, at all. You go out here on the second shift and tell me an index where the Welsh education system hasn't improved in the last six years. None at all, absolutely none at all. We present two models, that of chaos, barbarism, confusion, painful teaching system in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] They speak ill of the teachers. They don't want it, but they do it, because they're finally talking bad about the education system. There seems to be some Members who left school in June and returned in mid-September, but with responsibility, the competence and professionalism of the teachers of the public education system in Galicia do not leave in mid-June and come back in mid-September, no, no, they fulfill their role. And I think it's crazy to be up here talking about pedagogic programming. But, let's see, don't they know how to do it, Mr. Docasar? I don't know what school is going on, maybe in some of those you're going on -- as it says -- at the recreo taking notes about certain things, like individualized evaluation tests. If you go back to that school, you'll see that all teachers have the orders in time and form, with instructions from both the Council and the Directorate General and the Inspectorate to do their work; and they know how to do it perfectly. That some don't know, you can illustrate, that you ask, you'll probably illustrate; but I doubt there's only one who doesn't know how to do his job. On the other hand, you're also talking here about your withdrawal, Counselor – I don't know if you've misunderstood – between 28,000 and 42,000 euros a year to the teachers. But how much did they pay, man? How much did the teachers charge, to withdraw 42,000 euros a year? I mean, they're lying. They use the data, manipulate it and abuse it by stretching it. As I said... well martyred, numbers say anything. Well, that's what they're doing here, telling lies. Speaking ill of the Welsh educational system to see if they are able to extract some positive content. Mrs. Churches. What about the ANPA you want me to tell you? The ANPAs were the ones who were eternally asking for the book banks; they were the ones who asked for them. Now, conveniently manipulated by some, they're the ones who've been against what they've been asking for a while. That's what's happening. And I repeat, some, not all of them. You said that teachers are excellent and the only ones responsible for the good results of the education system. I appreciate you recognizing the good results of the education system. Well, is only one part of the system working? Does the board have nothing to do with it? Do instruction, commands and changes to teaching systems have nothing to do with them? Well, then, you're really bad at talking about the teachers who performed their teaching role right before we got here, because the results were all bad. Of course, then the blame is on identifying who it was. And you're talking about the resumes. Sure, they can talk about the resumes. They are presented in time and form, according to the forecast, not in mid-September – as was done with some councillor who had ruled in Galicia before – once the classes were started. And of course, they come here to tell us a movie about the resumes that were drawn from LOMCE. No, no, you're talking about those who pull out after LOE and you'll see that they say: "Find, compare, and if you find anything better, buy it." But you won't find him, Counselor. Calendar has been strictly fulfilled. That calendar of a law with which you are true that you have been against continuously. They were against the draft before the draft was removed. Then they were against the draft, the preliminary draft, the project, the application, the decrees, the individualised evaluation tests. By the way, "Francists" said here some vogue that were the evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Galicia and Madrid, they have just called you Franchises and the spokesman of the Socialist Party has not been changed. Because the law that put on the table and on the educational system the individualized evaluation tests were LOE, which I know; and LOE is from 2006. Who governed in 2006? Guess, guess! Well, Frankish. That law that we jointly complied with here in Galicia too, because we rule with the vigil of the LOE here in Galicia, and individualised evaluation tests were made. They did it because we are an honest party; honest with the laws and honest with the citizens, and we loyally comply with the rule. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you, loyally, are calling the boycott, the boycott! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Even pressing families, even pressing... were you one of them? Were you one of them? That's a question. Were you one who pressured families not to go to school on the test day? Yeah, yeah, I'm talking, yeah. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u38	Mr. Fajardo. Mr. Fajardo, call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u39	Yes, yes, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u40	Mr. Fajardo, call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u41	Did they arrest them so they wouldn't be, so they boycotted the evidence, that they were segregation and franchisee? But if it's the same proof as if they're still doing where the Socialist Party rules! The same evidence that is being done where the Socialist Party has ruled all the time since there is democracy, and even since before, in pre-autonomy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing, impossible! There they could learn something, because the counselor, who also does the 3rd assessments, introduces a 2nd, the scale tests. Because of course, it goes so well that they do two tests instead of one. And says, textually, I don't translate: They are made to be able to have enough elements and enough time to allow them to act on school failure. Its goal is not to get a ranking, but to contribute with greater knowledge to the improvement of educational processes, as well as to help the teacher to carry out his important daily task with additional information that he already gets from his student. Is this argument, Counselor? Because that's what they're accusing us of here all the time. Exactly that. And that's what you're doing in Andalusia. And she calls me counsellor of the good results they get. By the way, far below those you get in Galicia, far below me! And instead they're pretending. Well, we're glad that Andalusia is good for them too. And, Mr. Docasar, compared to the northern communities. Of course we compare ourselves with the northern communities! You see, the number of students per group, which looks like it's a mantra lately, when we have the lowest teacher-student ratio in the whole state, with 10.3. Data from the last course, data from 2014-2015, Mr Docasar. But what do you want to compare? The massification that they give us here, of classes. But what massification? Number of students per class. Spain, average in primary, 21.4; Basque Country, which is what you want, 20.7; Finland, which also wanted it, 19.4. Ah!, Galicia 19.0; 19.0! Unbelievable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to see those of ESO?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u42	You don't listen. Please check the gallery megaphony.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u43	I can go on. I will continue, Mr President. If we go to ESO data, they're even more significant. I mean, Galicia has 20.1 students per class. How many do you have in Finland? 20,3. And in Basque Country, 20.4. Ah! In Andalusia 26. So, what do you want to compare with? [[Murmurs.]] With equity, you said, with Finland? He doesn't want Mexico, which is the OECD seconds after Mexico. Very well...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u44	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u45	Then let's go to real equity. Study of the IVIE, Valencian Institute of Economic Studies, work done by BBVA, the most prestigious in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Real equity. Only eligible communities in their real equity data: Basque Country and Galicia. No more, Basque Country and Galicia, with 106 points; 7 tenths of Finland in real equity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u47	Finally, Mr President, wishing the Counsellor to continue to start courses year after year, that we also want you to meet your sexism, which is good for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u48	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Tour of the Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, it's a normal course start. And normal is the political stance that the opposition parties are taking place right now, because their criticisms are absolutely normal; they are the known, they are the ones that are expected. I think normality may be the most important point in this area, along with the fact that we have a good education system. And the only question that may not be normal is that the Socialist Party – in this case through Mr Docasar – begins to recognize that, indeed, there are humble improvements, that are getting better and that we actually have a good education system. That – let's say – is what the difference to you from the rest of the interventions. And I appreciate it, because it really looks like you know the education system better and it's more with your feet on the ground. Because it is impossible to say – and don't get colored – that everything is wrong, that little less than the Spanish education system is almost third-party. It's absolutely to say it and get colorful. At least you recognize that there is progress, and I appreciate it. Obviously, we would all like it to be the much better thing, and I suppose you too. And in the field of replicas I'm going to do as two levels. I'm going to ask first a question individualized by some of the groups, of specific issues from the groups, and then I'm going to talk about general issues that all the groups played in one way or another. I'd like to start with the Mixed Group, which here has set up a partial vision. We understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you who are involved in many parliamentary debates have little time to prepare the speeches. I recognize your efforts and recognize the work you do, which is important; only two people intervene in a lot of debates. But obviously, taking a partial view, taking a teletype and a part note, and adrating that that part is all in the educational system, actually, will allow me at least to question it, because the vision you gave is a very particular and very black view of the system. You also talked about families with less resources. Look, families with less resources in this country don't pay anything for the school dining room. They have direct economic aid based on income. Families with less resources have educational materials. And we, I told you, refused coffee for all, rejected everyone's coffee policy. What we like is to prioritize the help in those families that really need it, and that's something important. You, Your Honor, also talked about families knowing. Look, families know that with the new decree there are more hours of mathematics, there is more autonomy in the centers, there are new educational methodologies. And families know that in recent years, academic and educational results have greatly improved. You talked about administrative staff. Well, then I guess you haven't been all the attention you need to be in the Autonomy debate. You will even have to review the votes, and you supported a proposal for a People's Parliamentary Group resolution in which it was said that administrative staff would be put in primary schools. We'll review the votes, because now you claim it, and I don't know if you voted in favour or voted against at that time. You also said that you were not in favour of the autonomy of the centers and that you were not in favour of the organizational freedom of the centers themselves. I'm going to tell you that we are in favour of the autonomy of the centers and we are in favour of the organizational freedom of the centers themselves, because no one is better than the centers themselves knows their weaknesses and their potentialities. You also quoted a note from the Committees of Workers, and says that the Committees of Workers did not know the curricula of ESO and Bacharelate. Well, I don't know, I don't know how you can say that when this draft ESO and Bacharelate decree was presented publicly, it was exposed on the website and it was discussed on the Education Board. I don't understand. I don't understand how you can say you didn't know until the day it was published. And it was debated at the sectoral bureau too, by the way, that I forgot. With which, really, I can't understand how you can use an argument like that. You should know that the ESO and Bacharelato decree was in public participation, went through the sectoral bureau, where the unions are, and you were at the Galicia School Council, where the unions are, with which I believe improvisation, Your Honor, the right. Improvise is to make speeches based on press notes that have no rigor. That's a real improvisation! And I'm also telling you that you made a qualification here I think it's serious, I think it's very serious! He called them xenophobics and racists to European leaders who were democratically elected in their countries. Look, I'll tell you something. I'm very proud to be a German, very proud to be a Spanish and very proud to be a European; and I'll tell you why. Because the European Union, fortunately, is the region where there is more individual freedom, where there are more individual rights, where there is greater collective and individual progress. And given what you say, I would ask you, if possible, to bring us into your next intervention, which are your referees, their homologous countries, which you would like to look at. We would like to look at these countries, and talk here. You look at Finland, you look at Germany, you look at Denmark. And you're calling Central European leaders, who belong to the European Union, democratic, racist and xenophobic leaders. Well, Madam, it's your opinion, and I obviously don't share it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I don't share the references that you demagoxically make here to food banks. Look, here we talked a lot about the food banks at their time and it was shown that one thing is to do literary demagogy and another thing is reality, and that some people who questioned a lot and said that there was a need to open the school dining rooms in summer, when they arrived at the municipal governments – who came in the form of tide to the municipal governments – suddenly there was no longer that problem, or they said that it was not necessary, with which, Madam, let me make these precisions. Regarding the BNG, Mr. Pombo will talk to us in some way about what we're already used to: the frankist assessments, the segregation of the student... He did not hear what the People's Group Member said, which is the definition of evaluation; that is to say, of having information to correct and generate genuine social equity, correcting by evaluating those difficulties in the learning process. He spoke of cuts, privatization, LOMCE. Well, he told us a fact that I suppose it would be wrong and correct, which is that the Government of the People's Party drew every teacher around 42,000 euros. Great! That fact I suppose will be a mistake and that can correct it, but it is true that this government, at the state level and at the level of the Galician Union – the People's Party governments, at the Galician Union and in the state – is returning to the teachers many economic rights that you have cited and that the Socialist Party has taken them away. Because who lowered the salaries to the teachers?, who eliminated the replacement rate?, who's recovering the replacement rate?, who's recovering the salaries? You'll see who made the cuts, they're sitting in their space, and those who're putting back the cuts are sitting in this space. [[Applause]] And he also spoke of the decree of plurilingualism, which has to be repealed; he said so many times that we should have done it almost as boring. But, look, with objective data, what I certify and what makes this decree possible is a teaching in equality and balance, and the objective data that you use to say that it is not used in youth – which are true – also say that we have the highest level of oral and written knowledge of the Greeks – the greatest oral and written knowledge of the Greeks – is the use, Mrs. Pontón, that there we can share the use, but the education system ensures the knowledge of the Welsh without any doubt, and we are in the greatest data in history. As for what Mr. Vázquez said, I think you said half-truths and half-truths. It's always said that half truth is the worst of lies. You say this government paid a billion euros to the concert. Hey, who paid this government? You paid 5,000 teachers, or wouldn't you want to pay 5,000 teachers who work in college? I don't know, because the 1 billion or the amount you say this government is dedicated to the concert is to pay the teachers' salaries. Unless you want to send them to unemployment, I understand they'll have to be in favour of these measures. And he also talks about the hours, which have been lost for many hours, which are lost for many hours. It's a half-truth, because you deliberately forget about the hourly reorganization within the working day, which made it possible to make students available, to do reinforcement classes, to do support classes, more than 60,000 hours, with which, we're also in the middle of truth. And, of course, you've told us here about a lot of questions, too, that they don't have to do... allow me not to answer. He told us about cinema, culture, universities... well, understand that this is not the moment, that it has nothing to do with the object of this appearance, although the good culture, which was presented in last year's budget, I'm sure you voted against it, even if it's now coming to claim it. He told us about the evaluations, and, of course, it's funny, you now question that little documentation is given to families. There was no surrender before, with the left legislation. And what you should know -- and it's also half-true -- is that there's an individualized report for each student in each center, who can go see it. So, there's no worse lie than a half-truth, because there's a sort of nebula in the air that looks like it's true, but it's not true, because the other side is missing. And, of course, you called me a copy student, obviously, in figurative terms. I've never been very good at copying, that's also what I recognize, either at school or at school or college. But what I did was friar before the cook. And, of course, how can you explain that the book banks when they were driven and promoted by the ANPAs were very positive and had tremendously positive effects on many aspects and yet when they are supported and driven by the public administration, by the public sector, when they are managed by public officials and managed on the basis of income, where families with less resources have greater availability to access them, do you question them? I don't know what notes you put to that, but I don't know how you're able to make notes to that change to support something that's managed by private entities, the ANPAs, and question what's managed by the public service and public officials based on income criteria. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, well, I wanted, before I entered, to comment on a question in form. It's very important; the forms are very important, Mr. Docasar, and I share their good forms. But you come here to question us that we have come here, according to you, to come in through your ears. Well, you see, this political group, when it was in the opposition, in the Bipartite, was unable to bring in the ears any year the socialist advisor. Either he had them very small or he had little strength, because the socialist advisor to the Bipartite never appeared at the beginning of the course. With which, what do you want me to tell you? And we show up at the right time. Why should we show up now? Because we don't want to play with our ears and because now the data is closed and now there's the real data, the data is closed and the real data is closed! [[Murmurs.]] And, look, you're talking about austerity policies with teaching and with teachers. I've already told Mr. Pombo: who set up the replacement rate was a socialist government, who proposes consolidated salary reductions is a socialist government and, curiously, it is a government of the People's Party who comes to re-establish the labour rights and professional rights of teachers. You see the life-giving changes: the People's Party is coming to re-establish in the educational field what you've drawn in the educational field and to your professionals! And, look, you've also talked about elections; you've also talked about elections, on December 20. I expect one thing, like all of us here – certainly you too – that citizens vote in freedom, vote in favour of the country and vote in favour of the country and think about the dynamics that the country has had in recent years. And if we all believe that citizens will think of the good of the country, of the general interest, maybe that LOMCE that you say you will be abrogated the next day, don't you, so, don't put -- because they've been doing it for a long time -- the car before the ox -- as you say on my land -- because they really can take a lot of surprises. And, in any case, if there are other surprises different from ours, just as legitimate, because obviously, in democracy we'll all act upon them and we'll all try to do our political work as best we can. And there's a question, Mr. Docasar, that you always say and that particularly bothers me, and it's the criticism you make of Basic Vocational Training. I said in the first intervention that it is a first-order tool to combat social exclusion, a first-order educational tool to combat school failure, to promote social equity. And he always says he's increasing the zero cost. Who pays the teachers? The enlargements that were made of centers, who pays them? Who pays for the new workshops they've done? I don't understand it, I don't understand how you can question in this strong way what it has to do with basic vocational training. And, look, I thank you – I told you at first – we thank you, that there is progress, that there has been progress; humble – indeed – but that there has been progress. Well, we're getting better. If you use educational references, you progress properly, because you are at least realizing that there are improvements, that there are changes, that there are progress. Others, however, have a veil above their eyes and are unable to see anything positive. And if what the education system has advanced forward, had it advanced backward, it would be something that really wouldn't have any kind of reason. And, look, we share one thing with you: we want to look at the autonomous communities that go ahead, we want to look at the Basque Country and we don't want to look at Andalusia; we also want to tell you, we want to look at the Basque Country and we're getting closer to the ratios, to the levels, that are in these autonomous communities, and we're opening the gap with Andalusia, something will have to do with the educational policies that the Socialist Party has always launched. And I insist: we have a good education system. General questions discussed here: units. They have closed units, of course, but they've been closed for many years; and there's a substantial difference: this government has a unit with six students. Other governments with a smaller demographic crisis and a lower economic crisis were closing units up to nine students. The largest period of closures of unit schools was during the Bipartite. Well, from there we can say what you want and from there we can talk about irreparable loss, and I agree. I think it's not a good news that if you close a unit, it's not a good news, but obviously you have to adjust, not only the economic resources to reality, but the services to the demands of citizens, in this case of students. And we have to bear in mind that under these decisions there is always a demographic reality that leads us to certain geographic areas, mainly peri-urban areas, in which the student grows and in which expansion investments and new centers are being made, and in rural areas – I say with regret – there are unfortunately no students and what they do are groupings to allow and enable higher-quality teaching, because what makes no sense is to maintain a unitary when there are no students or when the number of students is so small, that even from a pedagogical point of view, it is not desirable, as many professionals say. And look, teachers, well, fortunately, we are no longer – although today we hear some questions too little rigorously – in those times when you said one data in the morning and another data in the afternoon, and the next day another one. Look, Galicia has over 30,000 teachers in non-university education. It's a great ratio; in fact, Galicia is the autonomous community with a better ratio of all Spain. The ratio is one teacher for every 10.3 students; it's the best ratio in Spain. Note, too, that the Teaching Staff Catalog is always being observed in 2007 by the Bipartisan Government. And I also want to tell you that teachers don't disappear, not even students, they're moving, and they're moving according to geographic situations. And, look, no decision has been made this year or the previous year to lay down or remove a teacher, or to put down or remove a unit with arbitrary or capricious criteria. Objective reports of management teams and objective reports of guidance services and management teams of the centres themselves have always been taken into account. Look, Galicia, at the time, didn't increase student/school ratios, as they did other autonomous communities of different political colour, many of them left behind. Galicia didn't, and has the best student/teacher ratio. And another question that you said here: subjects related, inter-internity. Galicia has the lowest – I insist, the lowest – rate of interinternity of the autonomous Spanish communities. You're a critic. Well, what will you do with those who are in the top rankings, who are in the south of Spain governed by the left? What will you say? And look, with regard to affairs, it's something that is done and always doing, from the point of view, in recent years and without any problems, of the education system. There's a fundamental question, and I'm not tired of making that difference. You are supporters, by saying so quickly and so that we all understand each other, of coffee for everyone. Not us, we're not. Eaters. With the system you had, a student who went to the school being transported – who could live in a peripheral residential area of a city –, as he was in school transportation to the educational center, ate free of charge. And perhaps a child who lived next to or in front of a school, in a suburban neighborhood of a city or in a neighborhood of a city, but who was walking, and their families were in difficult economic situations or in unemployment, with you paying. That's the difference, that you understand that coffee for everyone is worth everything and we understand that you don't. We understand that we must always prioritize, but even more so in times of economic difficulty as these are. We must always prioritize the government's contributions and economic aid on the basis of income. And don't tell me – an expression they said here – a few books. You should know how important it is not for the councilman or the president of the board to do it, but for the Greeks, through their taxes, to be able to have a book delivery program available to the families. We're talking about more than 11 million euros that all of the Greeks, through their taxes, make it available to families with less resources so that their children have school materials and books. That's what's not coffee for everyone, and that's what we do different from what you do. And by the way, I want to claim the idea maybe more important than I've said so far. Galicia has a good education system. We understand that they make political criticisms, we understand it, it's normal, it's the political game. Now, you must be aware that much of the criticism you make, disproportionate and unfair, is going directly against the more than 30,000 teachers and teachers who go to your classes every day to work and give their best in the system. Because it's one thing to attack the government, and another thing to put on the trial screen of the Greek educational system. I think you should start – as did the Socialist Party – to see reality. That partisan view that clouds their perception of things and should start talking about results, talking about progress, and so maybe next year we can say that you're also making good progress. In the meantime, we'll have to keep sending them to September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u50	Thank you very much, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Group. Mrs. Pure Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u51	Thank you, President. Mr. Flours, when you talk about the manipulated ANPA, I ask you, manipulated by whom? For the communist-Judeo-masonic conxure or for this Member? I ask you, nothing, you'll answer me. When they talk about normality at the beginning of the course, for yes, normality corresponds to a party, normality for the PP, with its policies and criteria. But it's not normal for a course start to be so chaotic. I would like to thank the Counsellor for his gratitude for the work of the Members of the Joint Group. What I don't agree with is how you criticize the sources we're going to, or the ones I'm going to go to, to do the interventions, because they're sources that have the same category as you: they're the class unions, they're the ANPA of students, and they're specific cases of people who, even if they don't seem to, come up to this lady to explain things that are happening in the centers where her children have. If you don't give them credit, that's your problem. According to your speech, credit shouldn't give you any, because it goes well with the teaching of Greek! I agree that not everything is wrong, I agree. But what's left is the wreckage's remains. And of course I don't say that this Member, or the opposition, as far as I know, we attack the teachers. It's the one that sustains the evasives, it's the one that covers the evasives that you're imposing on public education. I understand you don't like the opinions of the trade unions or the ANPA or the people who approach the opposition groups, because, of course, I absolutely contradict their speech, and I think they correspond a lot to reality. You're here, in Galician Union, but they're in the centers, they have their children there, they work at those centers. I'm not going to think that the teacher is happy. Not at all, either! And, in fact, I repeat to you that your union representatives are preparing documents, communiqués, in which the rejection of these professionals towards the policies of the People's Party is manifested. I don't want to finish the time without insisting that the fascist, xenophobic and racist speech not of the countries, Counselor, of the leaders of certain countries, of the rulers...! I'm not talking about people or people. There was a demonstration in Germany the other day in order to have a policy of welcoming the impressive invasion of refugees – we call it invasion by calling it somehow – of tides of refugees coming to Europe. Don't tell me to share the views of the President of Hungary do me a favor, because then I don't know who I'm talking to anymore. I said it's the leaders who applaud Mr. Mariano; it's a shame and a sadness that is applauded by the most xenophobic ultraright that we've had in recent times, and that it's going to grow, unfortunately. He also calls us demagogues. Please! That makes me laugh. [[Laughter]] What do you guys do more than demagogy?Oh, my God! I agree, Counselor, that the relationship you have with the PSOE because they are parties of government, of alternation, and so on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u52	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u53	...but call us demagogues to the other parliamentary groups! Well, no. We bring realities here, and you bring a demagogic and electoralist speech. I don't know if I have any more time left. He also said that we improvised the members of the Joint Group. What's up! No, no, for nothing, at all! We don't punch without thread, I'm telling you the truth, huh? I'm telling you the truth. We have a work on the back that they have already wanted to have the pride of having this work on the back of many of the Members who sit on that bench, to whom I certainly do not know the voice or any initiative they have put forward. I just don't know their voice, Counselor! How can you say that the Members of the Joint Group improvise, that we copy, that this and the other, when there are Members of the People's Group who, well, are called Florero? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u54	Finish, please. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, there are no Florentine Members here, there are regular and current Members here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u55	The next time they call me down, they pull it out too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u56	Well, so do. Of course I don't. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u57	Thank you, President. Counselor, we're in the seventh grade. In the BNG Parliamentary Group, we thought that this seventh course would rest on the deterioration of the German public education, but not. You have continued the imposition of LOMCE, imposed in a hurry, with total improvisation, against the entire educational community, all the union forces and policies of Galicia, except the People's Party, and most of the autonomous communities. And in that LOMCE there are some revals, which are to segregate the student, who reminds me of the Frankish era, who wants me to tell him! They are designed to go away from the student of progression the revals that are contemplated in that very LOMCE. Not the evaluations, Mr. Farinha. Read LOMCE carefully and you'll see that there are some revalids apart from the evaluations. Don't confuse the staff! There's a new course that we understand is too expensive for families – the Galicians – that we're not in abundance. There are over 200,000 families in unemployment; half receive no help; 23% of our country is at the edge of poverty. So compulsory public education, which by law is free... You don't come here to make me numbers and bewildered. Nor did he tell me that those 30,000 self-denial professors to the opposition are slandering them. It's the government's own group that's questioning the work of this teacher because there's a continued cut. There were 4,000 retirements – and you know – and there was only one thousand public employment offer. Put your head down. And it doesn't manipulate either, because in Galicia you're increasing the interinity. Don't compare me. In Galicia, you've increased it by 15 to 20 percent. Don't come shopping with other communities. In Galicia the teacher who does things has increased – with respect to Galicia, not with the others – by 12% in primary school and by 35% in secondary school. In Galicia, not comparing ourselves with anyone outside, the instability of primary teachers reaches 20%, and secondary to 24%. And that instability, which changes every year, is not the best way to meet the quality of public education, nor is it the best way to focus on diversity; that, by the way, you here now announce the bomb and dish. So, Counselor, let's be strict. Removals of schools, of those that closed the Bipartite. I didn't hear you opened any; I didn't hear you opened none. And what is true is that, in the seventh year of government, there are hundreds of the public closed, and hundreds of the private that open up, eye! Therefore, the People's Party defends concerted education and is denigrating public education. By the way, there are 15 million euros, of those who have been declared illegal, that you didn't want to withdraw from the private when they were dedicated to centres that secrete the student by their sex. You speak of BNG as obsessed with the decree of multilingualism. You see, the BNG is obsessed with defending our language, and whoever is obsessed with keeping it is you, despite a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that sends you to withdraw it; despite the fact that the Royal Galaga Academy itself has asked you to withdraw it; even though the ANPAs of Galicia are asking for it, and all trade unions and all political parties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u58	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u59	I'm going to finish, there's little time left. We're at a bad time, at a time with a lot of precarious work; at a time when coffee is not necessary for everyone, but teaching is necessary to be free of charge. Those you say they have a lot of money, they pay taxes. A few days ago, a famous man came out and he gave up 17 million, didn't he? They were talking about 1 billion people who don't pay. You just announced that they remove the taxes from those who have 400,000 euros. And do you come here to tell me that a father who pays, with 9,000 euros, the maximum in the dining room is the same as he has 90,000? What about those people who have 400,000 who don't charge those taxes now? But what are we talking about? Compulsory public education by law is free. So there are mechanisms and tools spending the same thing that you spend, eh! It could be guaranteed by spending the same thing. But you don't have that interest. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u60	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Don Ramón Vázquez Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u61	Mr. Counselor accused me of pouring truths in half. I'll directly accuse you of lying. To lie directly! To me it seems tremendously serious that you, with regard to the costs of teaching, lie so gravely, when you say that the money delivered to the concerts is directly for the payment of teacher's payrolls. That's absolutely false, and you have to know it. The concert module has three components. One, the payment of teachers, and three other components: complementary staff – which is not a teacher –, other expenses and variable expenses. All these expenses are not for teachers, but for the operating expenses of the concerted centres. So the money doesn't just go to teachers' payrolls, you should know; and of course, being in charge of one of the advisors you invest most in private education: 1 billion euros every four years. By the way, the number of qualified teachers increased – slightly but increased – and the number of teachers in public education decreased – according to their figures, Counsellor – by 1,250 troops. I don't think the comparison would, of course, support the same measurement table. With regard to Mr. Farinas, well, if Mr. Farinas says that the People's Party is an example of honesty, all the rest of his intervention, at least, let me tell him it's questionable. But Mr. Farinas asked me a question, and I, contrary to the Government, have the habit of answering the questions. He said, tell me one indicator where Galicia has gotten worse or worse. I'm going to give you three, it's the ones I could call first. First. Education rate in children under the age of 3 years, under the state average, and of course, by going down; student investment, under, of course, the average state investment and under the European average investment; investment in R+D+i, if we talk about investment at the university in R+D+i we can break the buttons of the shirt by crying; average increase in the number of students per class, 1.6%. Mr. Flours, we could go on. But, look, there are indices, there are indicators, where European studies – those that like them so much, PISA, etc. – do not reflect the situation of education in rural Galicia. There is no indication of the satisfaction of families in order to be able to bear the educational expenses imposed by their parents. Not everything is measured in European studies and reports, Mr Fariñas. And there's a question that I also wanted to explain to you about reports and statistics. Look, if you -- you're just an example -- you get 5,000 euros and I get zero euros, the average of our income is 2,500 euros each, that doesn't mean anything. I'm telling you because the student ratio in Galicia is low, and that's not good. Why? Because it's the product of a deep territorial imbalance, where we have classrooms that have to be closed because they don't have students, and that goes along with classes that have 35 students; and within these 35 students, students with special educational needs, students who need educational support, etc. And that gives an average of what you assume. But when there are 9 students in the classroom, one in early childhood education, three in the first grade, two in the second grade of primary education, and so on, that's not a good data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u62	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u63	... as much as the average favours you. And there's something that I wouldn't like to let you overlook. You insist on satiety in the term "coffee for everyone." Look, Counsellor, when we talk about education – and that's what we're talking about now – make a comparison with "coffee for everyone" – although anyone can have a coffee a day, it doesn't seem abusive – we can't say "coffee for everyone", because everyone has a basic quality education, which can access a quality dining service, which can access school material and textbooks in terms of freeness, and school transportation, that's not "coffee for everyone", that's a basic right that has cost a lot of work –blood, sweat and tears – to get. So don't do a demagogy exercise talking about education and equate it with "coffee for everyone." The key to educational quality – and ended with that – is the ability of a system to meet diversity. I don't understand diversity as children who only have special educational needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u65	...diversity of capacities, rhythms, interests, motivations. And that's what you're charging yourself with setting up a standardized model of education, which only allows you to save costs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u67	...but to worsen the quality of teaching. Nothing else, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u68	Socialist Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u69	Thank you, President. Mr. Hippolytus, Mr. Hippolytus, came well with the trumpet and with the music. You've been fine with the trumpet and the music, and a little worse with the information you're handling about what's going on in the teachers' clauses. I saw him a little lower. I didn't see him that powerful. I also saw him well at something else. You came here a little bit clumsing the field. It was the clean playground, it wasn't wet, let's see if we could get it a little bit. And, of course, to embarrass the camp nothing better than Andalusia, nothing better than the Bipartite, Andalusia, the evil socialist laws... those are the issues that we usually mess with. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, a precision of what you said. You said here – and it appears in the Diary of Sessions – that the advisor at the Bipartite stage – the Socialist Counsellor, Laura Sánchez Pinón – would never appear. Session Diary, 16-10-2007, go through that diary and you'll see how that day came in; by the way, a few days before you now, it's done today. You insist very much, Counselor, that we were the ones who took him down... of course, the Socialist Party, indeed, when he was ruling in Madrid, lowered 5% to the teachers. But nothing is written so that after you, when you arrived, you didn't change that. Not only did they not do that, but I, as a teacher, you took me off the double pay of 2012. And Mr. Zapatero didn't take me away, he left the People's Party, he took away the Government in Galicia from Mr. Feijóo. So if you want to deal with the subject of rest and other things, you can do it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Basic FP. I told you the zero cost because I mean – and I'm telling you in Parliament – that there was not a single euro for operating expenses, there was virtually no adaptation in the centres where it was necessary, the FPs don't need it. And practically no equipment was sent. This course will be sent, but the previous year has been implemented and the cost zero. I insist on it, Counselor. Ratios? My companion said so too, Mr. Vázquez. In fact, the ratios in Galicia are very good precisely because of rural issues, by chance because of rural issues. But if we look at the ratios of the Greek cities, the ratios have nothing to do with them, Mr. Fariñas. Advances? I recognized progress, how can I not recognize progress? I'm an education professional, and I'm well aware that there's been progress, but, of course, there's a nuance. You limit the advances only to President Feijóo's magical stage, and I see the advances that have been taking place – and I have witnessed them directly – since the time of Mr. Fraga – that you deny him – and since the time of Mr. Touriño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u70	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u71	Therefore, advances in education, Counselor, are not miracles. Things in education are achieved with pause, quietness, patience and stability. I also hope that the 100 million euros more than we're going to have in education next year, Counsellor, will serve to correct things that are not as good at the moment or are directly wrong. We have to recover the 1,250 lost teachers' squares, we have to do it. I'm not saying by any chance, but we'll have to make a powerful call, taking advantage of the resources we have in 2016. And I hope that this call will be made as soon as possible, so that the people who are preparing oppositions will be certified to me, have a horizon and can prepare them with minimum guarantees. Because there are thousands of opponents and opponents in Galicia preparing oppositions, either in academies or on their own, and they deserve our respect and this Parliament is paying attention to them and meeting their needs. You've also talked about the administrative centers. I asked you a subject -- you know, I asked you a question. I think you can improve what was approved here in the debate on the state of Autonomy. I think you can get to more centres in Galicia if you do the best things; if you are allowed, for example, that centers can request it collectively by zones. It would be a small advance. I asked him, I think you're in good tune in that sense, and I just hope they do. There's also another subject that I want to comment on today, and I know it's a little delicate because it's not a matter of legality. I mean, school transportation; here too much has been said about school transport today. We have a difficulty, basically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u72	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u73	...in the rural environment. A difficulty for the student living in villages and small towns that do not have regular regular transportation. I ask you to be generous and, for example, cases like one that is being given in Rianxo – but it will surely happen in more places – at the IES Felix Muriel of Rianxo, be attended. They sent you a letter. Answer them. They also filed a protest in the People's Valedor. They're simply asking that students be able to attend the class for post-war education because there's no other way they can go to their reference schools. For my part, nothing else. I hope, Counsellor, that we have a chance to continue our debate and that the 2016 budget serves to correct things that have been wrong in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. People's Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, you see there's no variation, nothing new under the sun. We just went on with the same arguments, not recognizing anything at all. It's hard for them to recognize that others are doing something right. It's just that things go well when they do them, and then we find ourselves with the results that we find when we arrive, so much so that they're economic, social, educational... unable to recognize anything that's right. Although much of that responsibility is that the people of Galicia are good and not just the Government. But nothing is recognizable. Anyway, because the worse the data and the worse it gets to Galicia, the better it's probably going to most of them. And then, Mrs Iglesias, forgive me the joke, but, man!, from the position you occupy in the Joint Group, with the legitimacy that accompanies you, to criticize people who have gained explicit recognition – implicitly included – and a majority of this group with regard to their capacity as Members or Members! And you tell me from the Joint Group, after abandoning the legitimacy of the group that helped her to come to this House, it seems a little, at least, bold. Legal, but bold. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] On the other hand, Mr. Vázquez, I think he was either wrong – that he might be – or I might even have been wrong when he listened to me. But you misjudge the data in those indexes that you have searched and not found, because you did not find them. You come with childhood education, from 0 to 3 years. Well, that you find education these subjects, when the education of children's schools from 0 to 3 was up to now at Work and Wellness, which has never been in Education, is your problem. No, no, it's not an education problem, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, as we already knew I was going to do some fear, I'm going to give you the real data. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From 2009 to today, in 0 to 3, plus 96% of squares. So check the data. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada knows a lot about this, and he won't let me lie. [[Mr. Losada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And he knows I'm right. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, you said another indicator where you're also wrong; in public spending per student in education. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mr. Vázquez, it is true that all the autonomous communities and the state have lowered resources—causes I'm not going to tell you which ones I already imagine—not just education, but all departments. But it's precisely Galicia in this matter, referenced to the average national expenditure, that's where it's improved. He likes Mr Docasar, Basque Country, who is most devoted to this in the classification: 6,582 euros; average Spanish: 5,431; Galicia, 1,000 euros above. I don't know where you got the data, not even why you said it here. But if you want to go to the efficiency of spending, man, to the autonomous community, that spending doesn't fix everything, Your Honor, you don't fix everything; here you're dealing with good professionals and methodology; innovation, technology and quality within the system, which is what you're dealing with here. But the least you spend is Madrid. However, it is more efficient in spending and what is standardizedly better in all indicators. As for the concert – I have to say it in quick data because I have little time left – last Government Fraga, 3,504 units; last government responsibility course following Mr Manuel, 3,836 units, plus 332 units. Currently, course 2015-2016, concert units, 3,853. You're right, 17 units together more than you are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u76	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u77	And now they come here to talk about dispensation. Man, you have to be a little more serious in all these things, and don't yank them. It is that you, at the time of the Socialist Government, put 2,400 million euros more in Madrid dedicated to the concerted teaching. Why do you refuse the concerted teaching? No one knows. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are, Mr. Counsellor, speaking of a course in which we have been claimed today more, more, more, however, we are talking about a course that has set the stage for Galicia's greatest educational network in its history. Besides, our students study in class; and others are discussing whether they study in caracolas or in class.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u79	They study here in a classroom, in no branch. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u80	The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u81	To finish this show, I think it's logical that we have political discrepancies, that we keep differences. But beyond those differences, which are even good, what we have to recognise is that the education system has made a lot of progress in recent years in quality and equity. I think we must recognize that equity has increased and quality has increased. I think we have to be positive, and we have to do it with humility, and we have to do it with realism. We are also aware that we have to keep improving, of course, but we will all agree that something will be done well when all the variables, quantitative and qualitative, that define an education system in recent years have improved. When school failure has come down, for example, with respect to the Bipartite era; when our students in our centres get prizes, not only in Spain, but internationally; or when our autonomous community in all educational rankings, particularly in PISA – something that you don't like – increases your position in recent years. Something we'll be doing right. And when I say something, we're doing well, I don't say the Government, which I also say the education system as a whole. Because look, you can admit it or you can't admit it, but it's the government Feijóo who made it available to many who used to be just a few, with real social equity measures. And we have lots of examples that I've already told them at the beginning. And we also have a lot of examples to be able to value our education system. I appreciate the fact that the honourable Member of the Group has already said that not everything is wrong, that it had passed from a very black to a slightly less black black. You said, it's not all wrong. But we're with the wreckage remains. But, Your Honor, if all the indexes have increased in recent years, what shipwreck is that? It's just the other way around, it's the other way around. And look, I think – the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group said – here all Members have a role and do a job. I recognize that you do an important job and, above all, expensive, because they are few Members, and that this sometimes obliges you to take sources and actually give what is not true, or actually give what is the opinion of a collective, however important it is to be that collective. But I really don't allow you, I can't allow you, to miss the Members of the People's Group. You cannot be allowed to miss these Members. And look, Nationalist Block. You understand... we understand in reverse what the revals are. You say I'm to segregate, we tell you it's fair in reverse. Which is to have information and to be able to implement corrective measures of educational deficiencies that can be perceived. You understand the opposite. Well, that's your problem. But the upheavals... which, by the way, should not be so frank when they are done in France, Denmark, Germany. When they do in the countries of our environment, they shouldn't be so bad. But you guys have a serial ideological speech and you don't hold back from that ideological speech. They're like snowflakes, they're not coming any further. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we're delighted. And look... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Pombo, I'll...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u83	...to agree on a matter with you. I'm glad you respect the teacher, I'm glad. And I don't have the slightest doubt that they do. But they should be aware that when they make such harsh, horrifying criticisms to the educational system, they're unloading that criticism, precisely, on the professionals of the education system. It's good that they criticize us politically, yes; but they don't criticize us, please don't criticize the education system, because there are 30,000 people every day – as I said before – who are working to do better; to do better for students, for the 400,000 children who are in non-university education in Galicia. They criticize us, they do, but they respect the teacher, I'm sure they do. And of course, you also use half-truth and half-truth. Tell us that units are deleted, but other units are also created, Mr. Pombo; other units are created. In peri-urban areas, because there is demand and need, they are created. In rural areas, where there is no, unfortunately, it is suppressed, as all governments have done; but always looking for rationality and looking for the best for students. With regard to AGE, Mr. Vázquez, I already know that there are operating expenses in the concert, but more than 90% of the expenditure or investment that makes this government in concerted education is wages. You know, you know, don't come here now to say that... No, more than 90%, but very long, is wages. And about 8%, 7%, is operating. Man, we could get there! There's a question I don't agree with you, or something. One where it is and one where it is not. I agree with you and the opposition groups in which teaching is free and equal for all, it is guaranteed by law. That's not discussed by anyone. Another thing is the complementary services, where you follow your theory, which we understand is less socially just than ours, because we understand that complementary services should be provided to citizens based on the income of these citizens. The Socialist Party. Mr. Docasar, that fact you said is wrong. Mrs. Sánchez Piñón never appeared in this House to make a balance of the beginning of the course, as she always appeared to this government; first to Mr. Vázquez and now to me. Mrs. Piñón once came in full to report on the main developments towards the 2007-2008 course. But that's not a start-up balance show. It's just, like I did in the past months, to say what we were going to do at the beginning of the course. With which I reaffirm myself in my statement. You, who understand that it is very necessary for you to take stock of the beginning of the course, I remind you that your advisor never did; he did other appearances, but not an appearance to make a start-up balance course, as he always did this government, because he understands it's an exercise of responsibility, transparency and respect to the House as a whole. And look, you certainly, like some other Member, at point of order: this is missing in this school, that is missing in this school. They constantly recite 6, 7, 10, 15 cases, and they know the name of memory, we all know them, and we take action in those centers. But don't forget that there are 1,400 educational centers, 1,400 educational centers, and you always use mantra the 7 or 8 cases that you, through the media, know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Many of them have been given a solution to the start of the course, and many of them have some of the claims that they make don't fit the inspection reports or match the guidance service reports, and they don't even fit the management teams, which should be moderated and not overly bold. Because, I insist, to set as an example of non-normality 10, 12, 15 cases, that repeat them always, in front of 1,400 educational centers where there are no such problems as you say, this reaffirms us with what we say: normality at the beginning of the course and having a good education system with human resources, with material resources, at the disposal of what matters most, than what matters to this government, which is to have a quality education service and an educational service of equity. And by the end, there's been a lot of progress. Humbly, much progress has been made. There's better access to education, more fairness and more solidarity in the field of education, I think that can be recognized. There are more languages, there is a multilingual model. There's more technology in the classroom; there's more autonomy in the centers. There is a greater prestige – and there we will agree, surely Mr Docasar will agree with me – much greater prestige, in vocational training than there were a few years ago, there I think if he has made remarkable progress. And we're now looking for greater coexistence in the classroom; that is, working on those qualitative aspects that are to ensure that there is a better climate in our classrooms that favors the integral learning of our students. Many measures have been put in place; measures that we understand are fundamental to the whole educational model; measures that have not excluded anyone and have also made it possible to have better infrastructures or to have a better teaching offer. Many of them have already been quoted, I'm not going to repeat them. And what I would have wanted, already to finish, is to say that in the last few years, you've made a lot of progress. In the Fraga governments, in the bipartisan government and in the current government, much progress has been made. There's always a question I question and put on the table. You often only associate education with the most public budget. And what this government has done, since 2009, has been showing that in education, as in any other public policy, there is no direct association between budgeting and results. And we can pick up a lot of variables that in the most fiscally advanced times in recent decades, in the Bipartite, educational variables and educational results have fallen, and yet, with an educational model that we understand more just, more planned, more rational, more thought-out and better applied, with less resources we have been able to improve the vast majority of educational ratios in this country. With which I believe that good education, and the management of good education, is by no means a monopoly on the left, despite what one thinks, and the left thinks, that they have the monopoly on good education. But in the results at Spain level, and in the autonomous communities where he has always ruled the left, it's seen that this monopoly is in the mind of some, but it's not in reality. It's about continuing to work, it's about continuing our efforts to improve the education system, and what we're really asking with humility is that they recognize that Galicia has a good education system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u84	Thank you very much, Counselor. We continue the development of the agenda with point 4 of motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the education system in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u85	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr Docasar has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u86	Thank you, President. Second shift to talk about education. The councilman won't get out of here yet, I'll be back again. Anyway, it plays like this and we have a motion to defend. The order I didn't choose. It would be just as good if you had changed it so you wouldn't keep talking about education and tired the audience. But well, that's the way it is. In any case, almost a month ago, just a month ago, the Socialist Group had presented in this plenary an interpellation to put on the table the health status of our education, and also – what things are! – to achieve with that initiative that Mr. Education Counsellor could give explanations at parliamentary headquarters of the success at the beginning of the course, since he had not done it right at the time he had to. And it just happened today, 50 days after the school course was started, when the things that happened are practically no longer news in our centers. We understood at that time in the Socialist Group that there were other reasons for it to do so, and it was the only way we could bring him here. That said, let's go to the subject we raised in this motion, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, this Parliament received the budget project last week for 2016, and we believe in the Socialist Group that it is the right time to put on the table a number of proposals that we understand can and should be affected in 2016 by the Education Council, after seven years of gross cuts in the Greek education system; some cuts that have reached the 400 million euros during these years I have just reported. In the recent debate of the state of Autonomy, the President of the Union announced to us the arrival of an expansional stage in our economy, and that in that new expansional stage things could be addressed that during the years of the crisis could not be addressed due to lack of resources. The figures we've just met tell us that the Galician Board will have in 2016 about 5% more in its budget – that is, about 500 million euros more than in 2015 – and that the Education and Culture Council will count on 100 million euros more than in the previous year. I recognize that it is not a negligible amount, if we compare it to the 600,000 euros we had in 2015 compared to the year 2014, but at this rate, ladies, we would need several years – and be able to be years with electoral processes – to return to the levels of investment that our education and culture had in 2009; that is, we would achieve about the level we had a decade earlier in 2009. These are the right data, ladies and gentlemen, and so they must be counted. Having clarified this, the Socialist Group believes that it is time to begin to recover – in the literal sense of the word – things that have been lost during the years of austerity, and from there comes precisely the motion we are defending in this Parliament; a motion, ladies and gentlemen, in a positive way, as corresponds to a party that has will and voting in government. And by that will that we have, we want to put on the table today a number of viable, sensible proposals that can be met, because that is precisely what we are asked to do here for the different members of the education community in Galicia, in order to be able to improve, as far as possible, the conditions of our schools and institutes and to recover by step the working and salary conditions that have been taken from education professionals during the stage of the crisis. I am now speaking briefly, ladies and gentlemen, of the ten issues that we consider must be affected by the Education Council at this new expansional stage of the Greek economy. A first question would be to convene in 2016, and to do so in a consensual manner with the trade union forces represented at the Education Bureau, a powerful offer of public teaching employment to restore the large number of squares lost during the crisis, and to announce – also an important topic – the so-called call in time and way so that thousands of people who are able to prepare these oppositions can do so with a certain horizon and know how many squares will be convened and what specific specialities. A second measure: to develop a concrete timetable and agreed with the union forces represented at the Education Sectoral Bureau in order to restore to the Greek teacher the labor and professional conditions seized during the crisis and that this does not depend on electoral dynamics. A third measure: slowing down the implementation calendar of LOMCE and communicating to educational centres a moratorium to deliver the new educational programmings that emerge from it; that date could be perfectly at Christmas, and with this we could quite reassure the Greek teacher. A demand for this, ladies and gentlemen, which does not cost money, but which would be well received by the whole educational community. Fourthly, to end the chaos of managing textbooks and to ensure that no child or girl of compulsory education in Galicia goes to class without textbooks and school materials. A fifth measure – which would not cost any money either – would be to draw up a precise list of educational centres in the four Greek provinces with the actual speed of internet access that they currently have, and, depending on that, to make a plan to correct this inequality between one centre and another. A sixth measure would be to develop a transparent plan of RAM, province by province, to address the needs of works in educational centres that were left unattended during the crisis. A seventh measure: to develop a plan for the replacement of teaching material, province by province, to basically restore computer equipment and vocational training, which have also become obsolete over the last few years. An eighth measure: to provide the educational centres that implemented the Basic FP in the 2014-2015 course with the resources necessary to impart it with dignity and carry out in these centers the adaptations of spaces and equipment that were needed. A ninth measure would be to guarantee students who started basic FP studies in 2014 the possibility of accessing the ESO qualification at the end of their studies in June 2016. And a tenth half – and last – would try to promote the excellence of the Welsh educational system, creating in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense a couple of public centers that share the so-called international baccalaureate, since these are the only provinces that currently do not count on the aforementioned service. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, there are ten concrete measures that can and must be done. I look forward to the support of the various parliamentary groups, and in particular to the support of the People's Group, not for anything, but for being the majority group of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, if recovery is a fact, if we are really at an expansive stage of our economy and it is not the fruit of the electoral campaigns that come together, we think of the Socialist Group that these ten media are viable, possible, sensible and that they would be very well welcomed in the educational community of Galicia. We therefore hope that the support of the different groups will be given to this motion by the Socialist Group. For my part, nothing else on this first shift, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. Intervention of the groups. For the Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u88	Thank you, President. This motion could be said to give continuity to the appearance that has just taken place in this Chamber, in which the Counsellor appears by presenting us a start-up balance of the course that does not respond to reality and which also rejects reality and rejects and disallows educational agents who provide the data, such as the ANPA and the class unions. It's a chaotic reality, Mr. Counsellor; it's an educational system that walks towards precariousness and privatization, there's the conflict of central Pino or the center of Vite. The situation in these two centers is so terrible in staff that there is strictly one teacher for every 25 students, getting to some classes at 28 – this doesn't comply with regulations – and does not prevent, moreover, that you also suppress unfoldings. There is a precaution as to human resources, it has started – I said it before – with 116 teachers less, and these must be added to those that have already been lost throughout the recession, the inter-internity rates are high, also increasing the affinity criterion, more than 300 centers – 300 centers! – they do not have enough professionals to care for diversity and students with special needs because they don't cover vacancies, and also guidance teachers are part-time – that you know – and they share center. Why? Because they apply economic criteria that have nothing to do with the quality of education or education: teachers with cut wages and that they also have to do the double role, the teaching role and the administrative role, managing the already-managed theme of books. It's a failed, ineffective system, as far as freeness is concerned, when compared to the universal loan, which is a system of proven effectiveness and equity. The teacher shares with the student educational spaces in a sad state of conservation, without access or with defective Internet access, without heating, without gymnasiums, with crowded classrooms, and lack of teaching material. We are very tired of listening to and discussing initiatives driven by the ANPA – and you don't give any credit – and brought to this Parliament by opposition groups on the improvement of the infrastructure of certain educational centres without you raising the demands of virtually none of them. Everything's great and the budget isn't enough; it's the usual one. Well, I'm back with the FP, not enough public squares are offered. It's so improvisation that I've already said I don't know if you know that July 21 is school holidays, that the centers are closed, and maybe someone's left on duty, but on July 21 there's no class or teacher. So, to finish, point 3 of this motion brought to the full by the PSdeG would have to be obliged to comply: slow down the schedule of LOMCE deployment and communicate to educational centers a moratorium to deliver the new didactic programming that emerges from it. I support this motion which contemplates a series of half palliative means for the improvement of the education system in Galicia, and while I look forward to the political cycle change that can be achieved to allow once and for all to end with this law, with the measure of the most aggressive neoliberal postulates that put at risk, which are already in danger, which are already preaching, public education of quality, because it fiercely attacks equal opportunities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u90	Good day to all and to all. Mr Docasar, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG will support this motion of the Socialist Group. We will support these ten points that we propose because we basically agree on the bottom of the matter. You are aware that the Block would draft these ten points in another way, in particular some of them, but let's support, let's say, at the bottom of the matter, what it claims. On the subject of excellence, we have already enough that the BNG is in favour of the fact that the Greek public centres must be equipped with the resources necessary to make a quality education that guarantees equal opportunities and to develop quality educational projects. BNG also supports, as it cannot otherwise be, claim better internet access, as is also claimed by the educational community by the majority, claim a plan for recovery, expansion and improvement of centres, forgotten for seven years or very late, claim not only economic resources but also materials, equipment and spaces necessary to provide quality education in all public centres, and in particular in the Basic FP. Ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions we have highlighted from this gallery that, with the excuse of the economic crisis, the education policy of the Greek Government in the last two laws of Mr Feijóo was nothing other than the dismantling of public education, the persecution of our language and also the destruction of employment, which involved the abolition of schools, school units that count for hundreds, and thousands of teaching jobs. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the BNG Parliamentary Group called for a sufficient call for public employment which, at least, was able to restore the jobs cut out in the Feijóo era; the only way we see, in order to meet the fundamental needs of education for attention to the whole of the specialists calling for the educational community, to meet diversity and to meet guidance, reinforcement and school support. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mr Docasar, is also in favour of the gratuitousness of public education and we believe that a fundamental tool is to return to the universal loan of books and teaching materials for all students of compulsory education. We are also seeking to restore the socio-work conditions of the teacher, of that teacher who is maintaining the dignity of public education, despite the fact that they have been cut off from the socio-work conditions since 2010, despite the fact that they do not properly value their efforts and despite the fact that they overburden them with jobs that are inappropriate for their work. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG also supports, once again, in our concept, the application of LOMCE in Galicia as the only way to avoid applying a lethal law for public education in Galicia, a law – we say many times – that privatizes, mercantilizes education and a law that, in addition, strengthens confessionality – which, in our view, should be out of school – and which even promotes the segregation of the student in Greece. Even the Galician School Council has called for a postponement of LOMCE application in our country in the past course. He also claimed this postponement to high school and to bachelorate most of the educational community, which is already full of rushes, improvisations, budget cuts, personnel cuts and last-minute taxes that even prevent the establishment of staff paintings and hourly loads for a quality educational offer. I finish my speech by abounding in the support of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Gaga de Left Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u92	This initiative is to support it, although there are certain aspects that we would nuance, especially point 3 and point 10. But we're going to support it because we are against the tyranny of the neoliberal way of life that if you want to impose, not only in everyday life, but in your own educational system, as one more, essential and fundamental part, to perpetuate this way of life, this capitalist system that is doing so much damage to us. That is why we are going to support that in the face of taxation, in the face of precariousness, in the face of instability, in the face of provisionality, because it is necessary, as stated in point 1, dialogue, participation and creation of stable employment. Because it's not, of course, dialogue and participation what the Galician Union is doing, which is forcing the resignation, without real negotiating frameworks or margin of manoeuvre, the directives. Then come Mr. Román saying that the course begins normally, because what is happening are resignation frames without advantage of maneuver. We also, logically, call for the recovery of all labor and professional conditions caught during the crisis, but also for improvement. Let's not naively think that what was before was ideal. We were moving forward, and with the People's Party what happened was a regression, so we have to recover and improve. We, of course, are at odds with slowing down the implementation of LOMCE. For us, LOMCE cannot exist. LOMCE will have devastating consequences for equal opportunities, it's already causing them. Fundamental aspects, because LOMCE itself is negative for attention to diversity, but if we join it in the cuts of support professor, the implications for attention to diversity are devastating. You spoke before the revals, the external evidences that call them, and we asked ourselves, "What are they for?" to analyze the deficits or analyze the student's potential? For you are the only deficits, and not the potentials, because these – the potentials – are continually evaluated, is the educational process that teachers and teachers perform. That's why it's no use for these revalids – these evidences – but to put obstacles in the continuous journey of these students and students. Those who have the most difficulties will have the most distractions, and you will thus facilitate segregation, because instead of moving forward in an integrated education – poorly established but inclusive – instead of going to inclusive education – you have warned the People's Value itself that it does not progress towards that inclusive education – we are walking backwards, because with cuts and with LOMCE what will be allowed, with ratios of 30 and 35 students per class in big cities, is segregation within the classroom, and that cannot be allowed. All the necessary mechanisms must be put in place so that attention to diversity, so that inclusive education, is a right guaranteed by you, not what is happening. That's why we'd shade that point 3. Logically, we are also in favour of the freeness of school materials and textbooks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u93	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u94	Full freedom, but not by economy, which is the argument that is always used, but because it's a basic right of every student and student, it's a basic right of all citizenship, access to education, and for that it has to be free, so books and complementary materials have to be free. Not by economy, but because we're talking about a fundamental right. That is why we are in favour, logically, of the air, of the bottom of the initiative, not of the concrete aspects – as we said – of point 3 and point 10, because for us excellence is built in the day-to-day world, excellence is that every student, every student, reaches the maximum of his abilities in any center of Galicia; wherever he is, in rural or urban. That's excellence, and not certain places for certain chosen ones. That is why we speak of education as having to be for all, and the policies of the People's Party will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. People's Group. Mr. Farinas Sobrino has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are making a motion as a result of the question that has been debated here in the last plenary session. As far as Mr Docasar said that day, he came with four points to ask the Education Counsellor, today the questions come to ten points, for which I have five minutes, and I will certainly not be able to reason all of them, but at any rate I will try. He began his interrogation by saying that you had certainly contemplated the progress of the Greek education system in the interpellation he made. Well, I'm sure it won't be what you mean, because it's a surprise or an exaggerated surprise that some people are not able to talk to you, I don't think it is, because you're talking to you, which we're going to have to stay with the second sense, which means a state of partial unconsciousness characterized by a decrease in the activity of mental and physical functions. I hope that's not the case, because, consciously or unconsciously, what you do is always blame the PP for everything that's going on around the world. And in education of course. When things go well, the law is socialist, and when things go wrong, you don't know how many years you've been ruling in Galicia. Of course, it is whether or not we govern in Galicia that law is still the same, with which it will be good for good things and not for bad things, with the same reasoning. As far as the motion is concerned, we're not going to talk about it; we've already dealt with the matter in committee, explained profusely, or tried to do it. Neither the Council of Galicia nor the State can create anything with regard to international Bachelor's degree. It's from a private institution – Switzerland, for more data – which is the one that then even manages this type of bachelor's degree. I don't know, I haven't heard anyone say that I was a classic, that's what they usually tell us; it's going to be integrating with the Welsh education system for the Nationalist Block, because it's going to accept it, it seems to be. With regard to the FP, Mr Corredeira explained the other day in the Commission, Mr Docasar, all the equipment that was sent this year and last year. He explained today the advisor, in addition, that matches are implemented in 3.5 million euros for high-tech equipment. We also talked about the titrations, which are actually going to have titrations. We don't understand why he comes here again. As for the FP, I don't think there's much to say. From now on, with our dual FP system, basic FP, incorporating students into the education system, we're going to do it by means or by no means. What we're not going to do is destroy equal opportunities like you did, which put a million and a half people on the street without any possibility in the future of getting any professional accreditation for quitting studies. Registration records are beat in Vocational Training, and that's for the 5th consecutive year. There are more students enrolled in FP than in Bachelor's degree, and that's called prestige, it's nothing else. Regarding the book bank and the Ombudsman, I will read what the Ombudsman said about two books, which invites the creation of solidarity banks of textbooks such as Galicia's in all autonomous communities. They promote values and attitudes of responsible use among schoolchildren and generate exemplary behaviors in society. That's what Mrs. Ombudsman said about the book bank that was placed here in Galicia. Books, Mr. Counsellor has already said, 216,000 book equipment available; almost 100% of those who received primary help this year already delivered to schools, and more than 90,000 concrete aids...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u97	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u98	... –Fixed, Madam President – and 83,000 payers of the check, whether they like it or not, but there wasn't before. We're still scanning the classrooms to break that digital divide of 11.2 million euros, strengthening, like not, the infrastructures so our students can study in class. And since I haven't had time before, I say now: caracas. They say in Andalusia, Mr. Counsellor, that since there are no hurricanes, nothing happens. Besides, they look a lot like the homes of American movies. They don't look like houses here, but they don't fall, Counselor. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Docasar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u100	All right. I want to thank the Joint Group, the BNG and the AGE for their support. And I'll explain to you two little nuances that Mr. Ron had doubts. The Socialist Party, of course, is against LOMCE, this is an obvious effect. We have signed a commitment to overthrow; we have been saying so as active and passive for a long time. So, right now, with the running course, all you can do is slow down. I'm not so foolish to tell the counselor now: stop the course because LOMCE isn't worth it. That can't be done by a party that's critical of this subject, but that has the will of the Government and we have the ability and the wisdom to see it. In point 10, I only say that excellence is for all levels! We work and we must ask for excellence for the entire Greek education system. But there's a clear fact. In the province of Lugo and in the province of Ourense there is no centre that offers international bachelor's degree. However, these centers have the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra. What do I ask? Let that discrimination end; as simple and as simple as that. I asked him for a commission and he didn't understand me, Mr. Farinas, because he talks about what he wants. I don't know what he's talking about, but what he wants, he never talks about things I say. And by the way, I leave to Mr. Farinas last to meet diversity. I'm going to meet the diversity of Mr. Fariñas. Mr. Flours, Mr. Flours, I will now attend to their diversity. You obviously haven't read what I asked, you haven't read. And I'm talking to the media: it's ten specific points, ten specific points, and I don't know what you didn't understand; whether it's a matter of reading understanding or simply not wanting to understand, because it's ten points. First of all, basically summon a powerful public job offer to correct the disguise of losing 1,250 teacher squares. A second question, slowing down LOMCE at the moment and giving the professor that option they're asking us to be able to deliver the schedules in time and form and that they can do it properly. The theme I said about textbooks is as simple as saying that we want to go back to the universal lending system of books, of course yes!, because it reached 100% of the school population. What do we say there's a digital crack? Of course there is! Of course there's a digital crack! And if they don't ask the centers in the countryside. Obviously. And what do we want is a plan for RAM and for the replacement of teaching material that has become obsolete in the last few years? It is obvious that we want this, and there we clearly express it. And from the basic FP, we've talked a lot about it. I said he implanted the zero cost, and it's true. It was implemented without a single euro in the first year. Money will now be sent for operating expenses. See if you understand me, operating expenses, that they haven't received anything yet. And then, to finish, the subject we said, of that excellence, simply not be done with the province of Lugo – which is my province – and with the province of Ourense a discrimination on the topic of international Bachelorship. It's as simple as that. You have to read the texts before you vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the provision of hospital beds and staff, as well as the situation of waiting lists in Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u102	Amendments to this motion were tabled by the Joint Group and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u103	You have the floor, to formulate the motion, Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u104	Good afternoon to all and to all. BNG presents this motion here today, as a result of the interpellation we made in the previous plenary session of the Ceased Counselor Rocío Mosquera. And we present a motion asking for correction to the public health policy of the People's Party and also asking for information, asking for transparency, in the data that exist, because right now there is a real public health in Galicia, the public health that most of the Greeks and the Greeks suffer, and there is the society of the lie and propaganda of the People's Party, which tries to convince the Greeks and the Greeks of a virtual reality that little has to do with what we live every day. And unfortunately the consequences of the People's Party's health policy are not abstract, they have consequences for people; real people, flesh and bone, people with names and surnames. In recent days, a number of media outlets echoed the complaints of a patient's relatives, a woman who went to the CHUAC to attend to it and died in it. The relatives of this 73-year-old woman reported that she entered the CHUAC on October 12, and since serving her in an emergency, she has stayed 72 hours in a chair. They report that on Monday, October 12, they arrived at chaotic emergencies, with people through corridors, without space, and unattended patients. They say the doctor who assisted her indicated that she should be admitted to the plant to be treated. But, after spending hours in a corridor sitting in a chair, you have to wait until the next day, Tuesday night – all day – for you to pass it to an improvised and unfriendly box; along with other patients, without staff to pay attention, and the patients helped each other. They had to wait until Wednesday night – one more day – for, after much protesting, they had to move on to a pre-engagement unit, pre-engagement plant where they stayed until Thursday at four o'clock, which entered the oncology plant. Pre-ingredient plant, wheelchair, padilla, three days in emergency and one in pre-ingredient; that is, four days to a cancer patient that the doctor who attended told her that she had to be treated and brought in, but it took four days to get to the plant where she theoretically had to have her entered from the first day. This complaint from family members is a tremendous complaint. They textually say they let a person die in inhumane conditions. It could be a regrettable situation if it wasn't because it reflects the reality of everyday life in many of our country's hospital centers. While this happened, beds in the CHUAC were closed. While this happened, the fourth floor of Abente and Lake remained closed, with 25 closed beds. As long as this happens, they continue with personnel cuts and continue to attract resources. While this happens, they follow closed beds in the Greek hospitals. While this happens, Sergas practices an infamous staff policy. While this happens, they continue to derive sick from private health while there are closed beds in the Greek hospitals; they continue to derive sick from trauma to private health while at the ULA in Lugo they have just closed a whole trauma plant. That's why we're asking for correction in staff policy; a staff policy that mistreats staff, mistreats hired personnel, those on recruitment lists; overloads of assistance that brings with them mobility, rotation, precariousness, instability. Of course, at the BNG we consider it urgent that another completely different labour policy be made; that it be contracted by the principle of causality; that, if a person is on a maternity leave, he is replaced by a person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u105	I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado. A little closer to the microphones.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u106	...that covers the totality of the bass. Stop violating the system of bindings and calls. That it ceases to use contracts established for timely and perfectly defined short-term issues for coverage of punctual absences as a norm. Which ends with totally irregular contracts, such as hiring professionals enrolled in the general list for punctual contracts. In short, it begins to respect professionals and begins to respect patients, who deserve and need better health care. From the arrival to the power of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, in 2009, the People's Party began a campaign of cuts, dismantling and privatization of public health without a comparison. This black gender, which was as I have qualified the former advisor – his period, the People's Party period, means a black sexnium for Greek health – means that the health budget in Galicia suffered a cut of more than 12%, with an accumulated loss in this black sexnium of more than 1,200 million euros; 1,200 million euros that ceased to invest in Greek public health. I assumed the elimination of about 3,000 jobs for health workers and health workers. Well, I don't know if it's a problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It means the closure of more than 600 beds in the healthcare system... –it wasn't me, it's clear – public in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I mean, the People's Party in six years has eliminated more than 600 beds from the public health system. Furthermore, it assumes that 48.8% – that is, almost 50% – of Galicia's health budget will already stop directly to the private sector. And just a little over 7% goes for investment and operation of public centers. In Galicia a quarter of the hospital beds are already private; more than 2,300 beds in Galicia are private. What does that mean? That private centers have more and more beds and activity, and private insurers increase their penetration as they deminuate health budgets; that is, the Greeks and Greeks with worse health care, and private health making cash. In Galicia the progress of private health is more than evident; it is evident in the privatization of infrastructures. I believe that we have already treated enough in this Parliament the situation of the new Vigo hospital, but we must add to this other action. And for this what has the People's Party done? So increase the budget for private health and adopt regulatory provisions to promote this situation. Regulatory provisions such as the Law of Guarantees. What's it for? Well, to legally hide the waiting lists. Instead of publishing them every three months, now the law that has exclusively passed the People's Party allows it to be published only every six months. And also to legally derive patients from private health; that is to say, modify the laws they need to promote that profit directly from the private health business. That's why the BNG on this motion calls for that correction. We call for the immediate opening of the beds that were closed in the summer. It doesn't happen like every summer, it closes a number of beds and then, last summer, it doesn't all open; and cumulatively, as I said, more than 600 are lost. We need stable staffing so that those plants and these beds are cared for; and not at the demand when they need it, but we need full-time public health, not in part-time. To be hired personally, to end this infamous policy of personnel, of permanent mobility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u107	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u108	And if I present in Parliament a report on how the waiting lists are and what leads Sergas is doing to private health. We're asking for correction because there can't be a single patient in a wheelchair or spending the night in a pavilion, especially when it's serious, while there's beds open. We believe that correction is the least that can be done. You can't be deriving sick people from private health while entire plants are shut down in public health. And we asked for another staff policy that I just explained. We also asked for information. It just doesn't give information who has something to hide. So we ask for information on the status of the waiting lists, the waiting lists they teach and the waiting lists they hide; these non-structural waiting lists, which we don't systematically know how that situation is. It seems to us that these are issues perfectly assumed by a People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u110	...that, if you're a democrat and you're in government to favor the Greeks and the Greeks and not to enrich your friends, you shouldn't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u112	...no problem in supporting you. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u113	Intervention of the groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u114	Good morning to all and to all. I'm going to support this motion after what we've lived year after year during summer, where this last summer, for example, they closed 1,015 public beds out of a total of 7,315 beds with Sergas. It's a reorganization that's been done every year since 2009. It happened in 2009, 454 beds were closed; and in 2014, 1,095 beds. I mean, the number of beds has doubled without any kind of explanation or justification. According to Sergas, they sin for two reasons, because in the summer, pathologies are reduced and therefore incomes are reduced, and because there is a demand for personal vacations. In all cases, Sergas is trying to close whole units because he says he benefits the care of patients, who have more available resources. But not true, closing for services, closing the units, suppose the remaining units are polypathological; that is, there are very different varieties of pathologies that must be attended by the same staff. In addition, it must also be borne in mind that precisely patients and patients entering times such as summer, Holy Week or Christmas, are those particularly serious pathologies, which require very special attention on this issue and which carry a greater workload. So you're not thinking about patients or you're thinking about staff, but you're just thinking about taking advantage of resources and cutting down on the health care you provide. The O’Mega union, for example, says that the lack of doctors is only the excuse that Sergas uses to close the beds. So, on the one hand, the blocking of the beds and the closing of the beds goes far beyond the summer, arriving in winter; and then emergency locks with flu cases and they have to open plants, as this year happened, which forced the president of the board himself to recognize that there was a problem of bed- endowment and an excess of closed beds. But it's also true that not all medical specialties have a problem hiring in the summer, and much less in these times, when the liberals are emigranting, looking for work in other parts of the state or in third countries. So this summer season if it can be used for other pathologies and it can also be used to reduce the non-structural waiting list; that is, those people who intend to send to private health and who do not accept it. Therefore, there are methods, both for hiring vacation replacements and patients to attend those times. The Greek health is, of course, in a real crisis. He has a greater lack of transparency than at any time in history. There is a total refusal to provide information, posting waiting lists, publishing non-structural waiting lists. There is an average delay much higher than it is established by the Law of Guarantees, even with the diversion of patients to private centers. And in addition to the system that is being generated clearly violates the model established by the General Health Act – it has ended – and the Welsh Health Law, which is based on the promotion and prevention of health in primary care; primary care that is completely abandoned by you, who seek its deterioration to ensure the private health business. That privatization is not the solution to Galician health problems is shown by the concert with Povervisa, the hospital that has the largest waiting list across the country, not to mention the whole state, with 157.3 days/medium waiting. Even so, although I am going to vote in favour of this motion, I have tabled an amendment because, although I fully agree that it is reported on deviations to private health, I believe that it is not only reporting on this derivation and the typology of each patient, but also about the reasons that each of these deviations justify, why those people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u115	Finish it, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u116	...they cannot be provided by the public health service. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u117	Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u118	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I'm sorry I can't give the new advisor good days. I'm afraid you don't care much about health matters in this House. In the full past, indeed, Mrs. Prado asked Mrs. Mosquera why all the Greek citizenship knows how to close beds, but that the Feijóo PP starts by continuing to call it "aid reorganisation." And finally, Mrs. Counsellor justified the massive closure of public health network beds by saying that they could not keep beds open and unoccupied in public hospitals because it was waste money. What a danger! Any day you pull out the firemen because there's no fire every day! Every year when summer comes, Feijóo, the Popular Party's health ideologist, suppresses 14% of the beds in the Greek hospitals. That's according to your figures. Winterfell is called, which begins in June and ends in October. That is, it lasts almost half a year. And this closure does it by looking at two reasons: the reduction in demand in the summer months and the personal leaving of vacations. Well, if the demand goes down, you close the reason for that 14% but on every plant. I mean, you close 3 or 4 beds on each plant and you don't plant whole, because the reason to close whole plants can only be to save, because you suppress staff, and not to rearrange demand. Besides, the plants that are closed aren't exactly where demand goes down. You shut down palliatives, oncology, hieria, obstetrics... at last, plants that have little to do with the reduction of summer surgical activity. As for the excuse of vacations, all health personnel, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well, we know, that we have to take vacations step by step, always meeting the needs of the service, and that, ultimately, it is Sergas who authorizes or denies vacations. Besides, all staff also know very well that there are very well-trained people on unemployment lists; on unemployment lists and at airports on the way to Europe, where, by the way, our professionals are very well received. But besides, ladies and gentlemen, when the summer is over, Mr. Feijóo does not finish his closing. Year after year, with this trick, you'll see in summer, you'll cut off the number of hospital beds in the Greek public network, and that's what in our autonomous community we have fewer beds despite having the oldest population. And then, once he has fewer beds left, what he does is put them together. Join them all on a plant, even if they're very different specialties, because it uses the same staff and the same space to care for sick people with very different pathologies, which reduces the quality of care, but also - and I want to emphasize - the prognosis of these patients is much worse. But neither the excuses nor the lies can cover the consequences of these closures: continuing collapses in the emergencies, proliferation of warehouses – yes, I call it so – of stores of patients waiting for bed to be entered, which so that they are not seen in the emergency corridors, now you put us in those warehouses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u119	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u120	High premature, deteriorating health care and healthcare quality, increasing waiting lists and a greater and capricious derivation to private medicine. Because since he's been in government, private medicine is no longer a complement to the public, but a direct substitute. It is clear – finished – that Mrs Prado, who pays the consequences are the people, and both the sick, and that lady you were talking about, and the professionals. That is why the Socialist Group will support this initiative, which, however, we amend to try to prevent Feijóo from continuing to cheat on the Social Security box. You can't make one month's vacancy contracts like this: you hire Monday, you take off on Friday, and so you save money from paying the professional on Saturday and Sunday and also from contributing to the Social Security box. Mexican and illegal contracts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u122	We hope that our amendment will be accepted, but in any case we will support your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u123	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u124	Thank you, President. At AGE we have requested, since the beginning of the legislation, a lot of data on the situation of our health, from the number of beds itself to the number of staff on vacations per hospital center and month during the summer months; the coverage of these holidays; the request for contracts; request for data from private concerts; request for data from waiting lists... and they are repeatedly being denied. When requests for information were denied, written questions were not answered correctly, oral questions were not often answered, and even voting against non-law proposals and motions were asked precisely to bring data to the House. In June 2014 I myself defended a motion in this rostrum asking about the same data as today's BNG motion that of course we are going to vote in favour. And at that time I said it was necessary to take out the democracy meter to see how many Democrats and Democrats were in the room and voted against providing information to this House. Indeed, without dissimulation, Members and Members of the People's Party voted anti-democraticly against informing the House. At this point, I'm actually not surprised anymore, but that's why it doesn't stop being less serious than they keep hiding the information. The situation of unemployment and precarious health care personnel just described right here is exactly the same as one year ago. How many vacations were covered with potential staff? How many staff have they forced, in forced mobility, to fill other staff's vacations? The answers never arrive. Why are they still closing beds – in 2015 almost 14% – when the waiting list does not diminish in summer? Why are there still beds closed since the summer? Why are more and more of the periods in which the beds are closed? The answers never arrive. Why, if Junta maintains that there are beds and that there are leftover consultations, do they continue to make precisely those transfers to private and concerted centres? And what? And how many? The answers never come to this House, and they don't arrive because you, because the Government itself, are also considered above all. It gives the feeling that the People's Party considers itself above even the Greeks and the Greeks, allowing itself not to respond. Three years already, and I'm starting to be tired of this situation of the absence of democracy in this House. Very often present to censor the opposition when it raises the tone of the debate, or even the guests and guests of the plenary, and always absent when the questions are not answered or when requests for information of obligation are not answered. The absence of democracy between these walls is probably, however, surely small compared to the lack of transparency that the Union has, that the end is part of the same thing. The non-structural waiting lists that we have already reported here, which can be manipulated and which can be doubled by the number of people waiting in the waiting lists that are made easier, the ones that are made public, are still hiding. Although – and I won't get tired of repeating it, I don't remember how many times I said it here – Mr. Feijóo when he was opposed spoke of these non-structural lists as a black hole and demanded that the data be provided. What before for the People's Party was a scandal, in particular seven years ago, now, after seven years of government, they seem normal, and they still don't make it easy for so many people to keep waiting to be intervened or treated on Sergas' lists. In April, the leaders of the People's Party voted against an AGE proposal to audit the waiting lists. They were not interested in having more information on the table that confirmed precisely the failure of the Feijóo Government in health matters; a failure that can no longer be hidden in spite of the various caeseses, resignations or makeup; a failure that is not hidden because their ideology, which is not right now, remains the same resident of Montepío, the same president who sits in the blue chair and the same one who has been putting into practice and testing the privatization of our health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning or good afternoon, gentlemen. First of all, on behalf of the Members of the People's Group, I would like to say that we regret the death of the disease which Mrs Prado referred to. Of course, our solidarity with the family and we respect the complaint, but we would like the political groups to wait for the investigation that has opened up the inspection, the judicial investigation that there is, and we ask for some caution in these cases, that often, at the end, are not what they looked like to the first. On the other hand, Mrs Prado and Mrs Solla, the People's Party is a total and absolutely democratic party, although we do not agree in the votes. I think they have to respect our positions as well. This issue is recurring every year, of course, and I'd like them to agree, because sometimes the beds are more, sometimes it's 1,300, others are 1,015, 400, when reality says they're 170... the figures don't seem to fit very well. Mrs. Mosquera, in her intervention at the plenary session, explained clearly the reasons and we are left with nothing but repeating them, even if it is summarised. This reorganization, of course, is done in all state health services, is not exclusive to the autonomous community of Galicia, as it seems to be said here. It was mentioned in this question of the responsibility of public health in Galicia to ensure the safety and quality of patients, the reactivation of reorganized beds if necessary – there was an example this summer in Vigo – of the right of professionals to enjoy vacations in the summer months, of the impossibility of replacing many teams. There's a lot of experts here. I recognize that to operate they require anesthetists, and I think that anesthetists, for example, there are not many on unemployment. You'll tell me if you can operate without anesthetist. I think it's quite hard. The concept of the efficiency of management and rational use of physical and human resources; the significant increase in surgical activity, even in summer times, with respect to previous years; the low rates of hospital occupation at the summer time. And at this point, I have to say that this summer, in the summer months, the average occupation of Galician hospital beds – the average of unorganized beds, not of the total hospital beds – was below 80%, ranging from 82% of Ourense to 55% of Salnés, with an average of less than 77%. That is, of the beds that were left unorganized, this summer in Galicia has occupied 77% of those beds. Of course in the summer there is a decrease in respiratory pathologies and income in internal medicine, and the value of the bed resource has been slightly lost because the incomes are shorter, the outpatient surgery is higher, the increase in the resolution of primary care makes them less and less sick at emergency services, and the empowerment of day-to-day hospitals, and the empowerment of day-to-day hospitals and home hospitalization. You deound those units a lot, and I think any sick person who had that service is really delighted to be able to leave the hospital and attend it at home. They always say waiting lists are going up, and the numbers of counsellors say they're going down. They're talking about the saturation of emergency services. This summer there were two problems, a one-day problem in Ourense and a problem in Vigo Hospital that was solved by opening a plant immediately; one of the plants that was reorganized. And then, by the opposition groups, it's repetitive. Mrs. Prado Cores said textually to the counsellor in the inquiry that "while there is still difficulty in entering patients who are going to one, again and again to the emergency room and who are sent home until they are able to enter, and not because of the professionals, but because of the guidelines they receive from you and your management team..." I suppose – I told you in the Commission – that you would take that matter to trial by now. I think it's serious enough, if it's true, for you, or even the supposedly affected professionals, to take that step. Of course, he will never listen to a spokesperson from our group, either supporting the Government or being in opposition, never saying that from our professionals. It seems insulting to us to accuse them of heeding unfair orders from the agencies or from the council itself for any option he works for Sergas. It's also talked about the closure of a Lugo Hemodynamics unit that was fake. Keep your beds and your staff. He changed his seat, opened his pre-ingredient and opened his short stay. Services which Mrs Acuña has qualified and qualified in the Commission for stores of sick people and places to discharge quickly. At least this time we weren't charged with charging for those highs. I'm going to finish, Madam President. This year, hospitalisation units were reorganized in the Sergas centres below the year 2014, without generating any assistance problems in addition to those mentioned above. Today all beds and units are working again, so we're not going to support your motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u127	Motion author group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u128	First, thank the groups who expressed their willingness to support the initiative presented by the BNG; and if I will accept the two amendments tabled because they improve the proposal that we presented. I regret, Mr People's Party, that you, in addition to asking for caution, do not rectify, because the best way to be cautious is that in this Parliament we do not have to echo this dimension and that cruelty, it does not happen. And if it doesn't happen, we have to take action, it's not enough to be cautious, it's necessary to take action. And that's what you systematically refuse over and over again. You didn't speak for anything about the BNG motion. BNG no longer asks about the beds that were closed in the summer, what we say is that they all open. What happened last summer, past those ill-paying justifications that everybody knows they're not true, that it's not because of the staff vacations or because there's no demand for assistance, that this agent closes beds doesn't have any justification beyond favoring the private business, that all open. And you didn't say anything about that, so you should agree that every year you're going to lose your beds. If they vote against, they will vote in favour of continuing to lose beds in Galicia's public health system, while – and I have given it a given – in Galicia's private health care continue to increase beds; while Galicia's private health continues to increase the turnover; while private services already carry 50% of the budget of the Health Council. That's reality, and that's what we're asking in the BNNG to rectify, to change that system of things. So you're going to vote against it and you're going to vote for it to be kept that way. Just as we call for decent recruitment of staff, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, decent. And you will vote against that question again. And then we asked for information. If you have nothing to hide, why are you going to vote against having a report in this Parliament on how the waiting lists are and how are the derivations from public health to private health? Why are you so afraid that you know what you're doing with this father's public health? We ask for a report, if a report is submitted, why do they vote against this? Because if you're so convinced that you won't return, Mr. Núñez Centeno, I vote in favour of a report on what the situation is. Don't be afraid that if you know reality, don't be afraid that you know reality. With this, we deeply regret that, far from representing and bet on the public health of this country, they again vote against measures to improve public health and vote in favour of private health. They must also fear that it is known that they are not only sick... – lastly, Madam President – to private health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u130	...but they also threaten them and remove them from the waiting lists if they refuse to go to private health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u132	That's what you're afraid of, what you know is the true situation of waiting lists and private health derivations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u133	We suspended the session until this afternoon at 6:30. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at 3:00 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the sustainability of the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u134	This motion was amended by the Joint Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u135	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u136	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I have to regret again that I can't give the Health Counsellor good afternoon, this confirms to me that you are not very interested in the discussions on your subject in this House. After hearing Mrs Mosquera explain herself in the past in relation to the statements she had made herself questioning the sustainability of the public health system, I ended my intervention by ensuring that the only thing that was unsustainable was herself and, of course, the PP's health policies – and that fortunately both she and PP had little time left –. Of course, I hit the first part, because she was left, at that moment, two or three days, though neither I nor she knew. Not knowing that, I thought she didn't even know the same Sunday on which she was stopped, because it shows me that, about 11:00 a.m. – or 11:00 a.m. – she was organizing the work next week with her collaborators through email. I think he found out when he saw the news, where the president was announcing his cessation. Well, you'll know what they do and how they do it. But my prediction still lacks the second part: the cessation of PP's health policies, something essential. I recommend to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you do not deceive yourself nor try to deceive Galicia; it does not change your faces: the health failure is of Feijóo and it does not end up stopping Mrs Mosquera: she left, but the problems remained, because the ideologist remained, Mr Feijóo remained; the scam of the PP hospital in Vigo, the cuts, the suppressions, the privatizations, the shot waiting lists, the desperate professionals and the professionals on strike, the citizen was disturbed and worried, the damage remained and, of course, the suspicion of unsustainability remained. The PP always ensures that its goal in health was to lower the budget by increasing the benefits and maintaining quality; for, ladies and gentlemen, you carry three people – a counselor and two advisors – and the result is just the opposite: they have gone down, yes, but the benefits, and increased, yes, but the expenses, and caused an unprecedented deterioration in the public health system. And that has a name, it's called failure: Mrs Farjas' failure, Mrs Mosquera's failure, failure – we'll see it soon – Mr Vázquez Almuína's failure and, of course, Mr Feijóo's failure. He did, who privatized everything he could and did not think that, when we had to pay all the privatization, he could – and this is very serious, ladies – make our public health system unusable. Not to mention these millions and millions of European money, millions and millions of euros drawn in these critical years, used to buy things as little as necessary right now as the truck-korphan, to set an example, or those thousands of machines that you're going to put on the chronically ills of the Orensian mountain and shine; or that multimillionaire spent, already immeasurable – immeasurable – which is what you're spending on computer equipment. We don't know, ladies and gentlemen, to this day, as it goes up. And without talking about the spook and the scam – which I will never get tired of repeating – which has become the PP hospital in Vigo, the most exponent of Mr. Feijóo's health policy disaster. But I do not want to forget from this outcome the role of the People's Party of Madrid, Mr. Rajoy, a Mr. Rajoy, who, the coup d'écrétaire, has changed the health model, so that now, even though you are committed to denying it, health is no longer public or universal, it is neither free nor of quality. They didn't leave us anything. And for all this, we socialists today present this motion, which will serve to check whether Mrs Mosquera's cessation has been equipped, or not, the change in failed health policies – I insist – by Mr Feijóo. A motion that consists of five points, all I think you can assume, and all in line with the change that the president announced for this last year of legislation, for this election year. Let's see – tomorrow we'll see – how he votes, and so we can measure the real degree of commitment. If they really want, as they say, universal and free health, they will have to sue their Government to derogate the Royal Decree of Law 16/2012. You're two months away from the state government, what else do you give them? Do the gesture, for no doubt the new Government which will overthrow him. Of course, if they vote otherwise, they will make it clear that Feijóo agrees that health care is a service, a service that the Government has to lend only to insured people and not – I insist – a universal right. Besides, it will make it clear that Feijóo wants that service to be linked to all kinds of coke, which complicates access to the poorest. It will be clear that with PP and Feijó, health care is no longer universal, but in addition, care is less and less equitable. At the second point of the motion we call for paralyzing the planned sanitary privatizations and beginning the reversal of all that has already been done. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if you'll be more willing to consent to the company that owns the PP hospital in Vigo. After having committed so many irregularities and so many non-compliances, you should not agree that you have continued to face that project or a second. That scam and failure are not solved by undermining the parking lot, nor by setting up a technical committee, at this point, of professionals. By the way, you have finally ceased Mrs. Ana Sánchez, until now head of the technical office with which the new hospital was already told; they have ceased it and still we don't know who paid the salary of that lady, if the company, if you would advise her. It seems that the company paid for it, the same company that Mrs. Ana Sánchez had to control, but it turns out that she's fired health now. Watch out, watch out, gentlemen! Just like that lady doesn't say goodbye and Vigo's private hospital is located with two technical committees: the private and the public. I wonder, if so, what criterion would prevail between the two, because I am quite clear that they will not be coincidentally. But let's also talk about the mess that you put together with the tech partner, a privatization model by which private tech companies themselves decide the needs of the high-tech public health system. But here you've been five years, five years! in making that adjudication, so now you've been adjudicating it is already obsolete. By the way, if you were going to fund Zara, I don't know why you took so long. And, by the way, another warning: care, care, ladies, for better the Greeks and the Greeks, they prefer to vote for Amancio Ortega, because in the end it is who is solving their problems. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, nonsense... yes, like life itself! At the third point, we asked to put back the staff. You've spoken to them about the respect they have to people who work in the public system -- by the way, the great heroes in these years of cuts and crises -- for if they really respect them, they accept our proposal. Fourthly, to recover and implement the Primary Care Improvement Plan, the collapse of the public health system – which, although this seems impossible, will again be cut in the next year's budget. And finally, one last point, if they really want and have an interest in public health, I planted a pact, a pact for health. Let's sit down, let's sit down and talk; look at what I'm telling you, let's sit down, let's analyze the real budget needs of our public system! –and I stress that of the public – and we all commit ourselves to the government who governs, lords, these needs and that sustainability are guaranteed. I look forward to the support of the other groups on this motion. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Intervention by parliamentary groups, by the Joint Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal at all its points, I'm going to say why and also explain the meaning of my amendment. First, I will vote in favour of point 1, derogating from the Government of the Royal State Decree 16/2012, among other things, because this Royal Decree eliminates the universality of public health; it affects patients with rare, chronic diseases and their families, as it submits to the co-operage formula the drugs that are prescribed to pensioners, the orthoprotesic, outpatient provision – such as mules, mills or wheelchairs – the non-emergency transport of patients for travel by clinical causes and that cannot be done by ordinary means of transport, and the dietary products that, although seen as such, are fundamental to the feeding of many and many patients. Also because of the exclusion of medicines of pharmaceutical benefit, the number of medicines of pharmaceutical benefit continues to be extended. I spent the other day with a pharmaceutical prescription of more than 20 euros on a medicine that doesn't cover social security. I'm lucky, I can pay those 20 euros, but there'll be a lot of people who don't get that medication because they can't pay. I will therefore vote in favour of point 1 of the motion. In point 2, I will also vote in favour of paralysing the planned sanitary privatizations and reversing the existing ones, because the Board itself warns the Board of Auditors of the lack of justification for many of them, as well as the dubious economic benefit to the public buildings of them, because there is no reason or proof that there is no evidence to prove the economic benefits to the administration or the benefits to the users of health privatizations. The quality of the concerted provision is lower than the quality of the provision of public services, with a difference which is mainly justified in the business benefits of the concerted undertaking. And that's because the working precariousness in companies benefiting from concerts and contracts with administration is very high. I'll also vote in favour of number three, putting back the pictures, covering the attendances, and returning workers and public workers to their salary, work and social conditions. And I'm here including that you should once again cover 100% of your salary in sickly dropout situations. There is no excuse not to comply with what this motion calls for, since the President himself announces at the end of the crisis, job creation, the return to society of effort – and especially to workers and public workers –. It is therefore time for the President to turn from words to facts and propaganda to commitment. I'll vote in favour of point 4 of the primary care plan because Galicia, with a larger and dispersed population, needs to reorient the health system, again, towards primary care. Because primary care is marked by all experts and experts, as a fundamental axis of the health system, because their role is fundamental to ensuring the rational use of resources, because it decreases the pressure of emergency services, because it carries out activities to prevent and control chronic diseases, because it provides health education and promotes healthy habits in the population. I will also vote in favour of number 5 – analyze and guarantee budgetary needs – because the Board of Auditors recommends this too, which indicates that there is an abuse of budgetary changes within Sergas. I will therefore vote in favour and present an amendment that seeks to bring the basic health services closer to the entire population, and what he asks is that the primary care network be extended – many places, especially within Galicia, are far from their primary care centres – and that the 24-hour hemodynamic unit of the HULA, CAR do Morrazo; or, as the People's Party said today, the opposition did not give him value – I do give it – that the ADO service and the palliative care service should be extended throughout the Greek territory. You don't despise, you're complaining, and it's the Government itself that doesn't provide this service to many and many Greeks and Greeks, essentially from within the provinces of Lugo and Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u140	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u141	For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u142	Good afternoon. Greek public health gradually loses quality and, if we fail to reverse this situation, the level of degradation to which it is subjected will lead to the fact that we have a charitable health, a health care for the rich, a health care for those who can pay for it and then a mere health care for the rest. And, as we know it, it's obvious that it's at risk, as much as the People's Party tries to put tons of propaganda to cover this situation, it's obvious that it doesn't. And this seriously ill public health requires treatment and this treatment requires going to the bottom of the problem and not just to symptoms. Because that brutal aggression you are suffering is only possible to solve it if we are able to go to the first and basic cause of that situation. And the fundamental reason is, first, the ideological conviction of those who have been carrying out decades ago a whole campaign to convince the people of the need to reverse that public health, to convince the population of the fall that meant the public, to convince the population that they could come into the stock of private companies in that niche. And the first thing that was done was to blame the victims themselves of this situation – which are most of the people, most of the population – that they were sick above their possibilities; convince them to then assume without any kind of problem those reparations, that pay a part of the health in addition to doing so through taxes. The second step was to destroy the image of public health, that is: for there to be less resistance to this surrender of public health to the private company, it was necessary to make – the power centers that the People's Party serves as well – a whole image of public disbelief, of the need for austerity also to be imposed on the health system. And the third act set in motion was the legislative amendment. What has been done was legislative changes that – as I said in the motion that BNG presented before this motion – were essential for all actions being carried out under the umbrella of legality; and, of course, so that it can be done under that umbrella of legality before all legislative changes that allow it to be so must be made, because things are not a biblical curse, but they are produced and privatized because there are those who vote, who give the button to change those laws to allow it. And those legislative amendments, because they come from far away, so we have tabled amendments to this initiative of the Socialist Party, where we demand the derogation of all the regulations that allow the privatization of public health, starting with Law 15/1995, which is the law of new forms of management, the law of foundations, the law that opened the way and which, of course, was then that dirty road...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u143	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u144	... in a very fearsome way by the following legislation – as indeed Decree 1 of July 2012, which radically changes the concept of health care –. That's why we're going to support this initiative, but we are presenting this amendment because we believe that we must completely change all the legislation that allows this privatization, and we also present an amendment to ensure that not only infrastructures, but each and every one of the resources privatized during the six years of the People's Party's government; resources whose list is more than enough: we can talk about the management of rays, of laboratories, of sterilization, of the shopping center...; that is, the list is endless. And we believe that it is not enough, of course, to shorten the causes of these privatization measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u146	...but we have to actually go to the legislation that allows this new privatization model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla. [[Murmurs.]] Please, please, be quiet, there's a background murmur that's pretty uncomfortable for people when you're here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u148	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, it's very interesting to talk now in the afternoon, to debate the sustainability of the health system. It is interesting, therefore, precisely at the moment when we are debating some budgets that intend to do a wash in the face of this government's terrible health management, and at the moment when they are hurrying precisely to leave tied and well tied to the privatizations that are coming. The offensive on the health system is an international strategy, of large companies, of great economic powers, taking into account precisely the large proportion of the budget allocated by the states and countries to health, and which accounts for between 30% and 40% of the budget of the total expenditure of the autonomous communities. Getting into the business with our health brings together a health model change that has been taking place in the Spanish state since the dictatorship fell, preparing the ground for future – already – privatizations. The deterioration of the health system – we have just discussed in the morning – is a strategy aimed at destroying it and justifying subsequent privatization, and colonization by private companies of all kinds of public health services. It's a pretty old strategy. The entry of private capital into our health, the entry of business – as can be Povervisa –, the entry of privatization into high technology, the entry of privatization into sterilization, had entered precisely with that approval of the Law 15/1997, new forms of management, which was approved at the Congress of the Members of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Convergence i Unió, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Canary Coalition. It is precisely in favour of starting health privatization from that point. We have asked in this House, on repeated occasions, for the rejection of the groups of this legislation, this law, the last one in the last plenary session of the debate of the nation's state with a resolution that none of the majority groups voted in favour. Of course, we believe that nothing can be resolved by speaking on the one hand and, on the other, by supporting the rules that facilitate or push privatization. And that's why we resubmit, in amendment mode, the commitment we call on the Galician Union to request the Central Government to repeal this law. We therefore call for real commitments not only in speech, but also commitments that are necessary to comply precisely with point 2 of the motion to reverse privatization. Totally according to points 3 and 4 – I will not abound, they are known, and the positions of this group – according to point 1. And so we also carry it in the debate of the nation's state, denouncing that the Royal Decree 16/2012 represented the end of universality in health care, that started this apartheid health or the known decree of shame – and also, by course, started the pharmaceutical compensation. I am actually waiting for the People's Party's vote at this point, because they voted in favour of an AGE resolution in the debate of the nation's state that demanded or called for universality to be restored to health care. And we therefore understand that this point should be voted in favour of it. The health system is sustainable, so we consider it this way, also according to point 5, which calls for an analysis of the budgetary need. What the health system has is bad managers, what they're making their deterioration easier for further privatization, the same thing that happens to our pensions. That's why we also present in the amendment a point that calls for funding for health care to be based on a tax collection and available public funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u149	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u150	...–own funds, state funds, European funds, and to abandon the introduction of private foundations and companies. We have half the budget devoted to the private company – the latter, the charity of those who must pay taxes, the foundation of a billionaire to provide a service that is already privatized. Health is a right, so we also put up a fight against tax evasion, which must also be the reason for a higher tax collection. And we also request, in this sense, the derogation from Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the autonomic public sector, which frontally attacks the public sector and introduces, in addition, the creation of the Blood and Fabrics Agency, something that will bring more opacity to a land that should already be introduced into public health. And so – I'm finished now – we want 100 percent public health and we're not going to comply with anything less than that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I believe that all this debate, Mrs. Acuña, has begun with statements by the former Health Counsellor in which I believe that both she and me and many people, we make a possibly wrong interpretation of the concept of sustainability – I think – and I will explain why. We always have a tendency to talk about a system that is sustainable and I think it would be more timely – for a book that I read lately – that we should talk about a system that is solvent. Because sustainability is always linked to GDP: "How much do you put on your GDP for health care?"in Galicia we know it's 6.4, so on this subject it's sustainable. Another thing is if we talk about solvency, because solvency is related to equity, efficiency and quality. I mean, are we capable of providing universal coverage and ensuring the same benefits to the whole population? This is the concept that I am more supportive now; I insist, after reading this book, I am more supportive of using the concept of solvency – you must always read –. So I think we're solvents, I think, the Greek Government and health I think it's solvents. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, we were able not to have a breakdown like those in previous years, particularly in 2008, of EUR 645 million – which is a real barbarity – in the current expenditure chapter. Something that I did not invent and that reflected the Board of Auditors in the report that it made corresponding to the year 2008 – of course, diverting EUR 645 million into the current expenditure chapter is a real barbarity, so it cannot be a solvency system. We think we've been able to fix it and our accounts end up without any kind of deviation. We implanted the drug catalogue, just as for the entire population: the same prescription, an active substance that went for the whole population and therefore equal access. And this had its profitability, its efficiency, because we saved a lot of money connected, in addition, to an issue that was the increase in the prescription of generics: we were at 11% and today we can say that we have a prescription of generics that is above 43%. Another of the measures that we put in place to have a solvent system was integrated management, we created integrated management, here very remote, but which brings many benefits because it avoids duplication with regard to patient care. We are a solvent system because I believe that, despite all the economic disadvantages in maintaining that 6.4 % of GDP for health care, we have built hospitals. I know you don't like us building hospitals and, whenever you can, they attack the theme of building hospitals and health centers. We've also been able to renew technology, high technology is renewed. Oh, what would happen to our technology if we didn't implant the tech partner? The gammagraphs would be dropping, the resonances would be dropping, the TACs would be dropping, and all that would be falling. Mr. Amancio Ortega made an important prayer the other day, which we thank him for. You have to thank him, whatever prayer for the health system... I don't think anyone would feel bad if Mr. Amancio Ortega gave a prayer and we, of course, thank him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, we have... I don't know how they still doubt if we have universal coverage. [[Murmurs.]] In Galicia, of course. Galicia was the community that took the first step to cover within the health system the immigrant population, we, yes, special health plan. The other day, Mrs. Solla, who I see indicates no, we adopted a resolution of her – from AGE – in which she spoke about universal coverage. So we have no doubt in saying that coverage for us is universal, none, none! And another very important issue: we don't have coke. There are no spores, despite the announcements. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u153	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u154	Look, we're taking the red paper out here, we're not gonna get it out again, that paper is not gonna get it out again... I have the copyright of that paper, but I've already handed it over to... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We, fortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u155	Finish, Mr. Santalices, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u156	...we don't have any strawberries. What if we have – Madam President, already finished – is quality, because we have good professionals, heads of service and health workers who do something more than play golf, something more than play golf, and I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u158	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u159	Motion author group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo. Please give a voice to Mrs. Acuña's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u160	Thank you, President. How little joy in the house of the poor lasts! You've washed your face off Mrs Mosquera, but as far as you can see, nothing else. I would like to begin by thanking the support of the opposition groups, all of which are amending, which demonstrates the interest and concern that exists for the sustainability of our public health system with the health policy that Mr Feijóo is making. But they're going to allow me, even if I agree with almost everything you propose, not to incorporate your texts into the initiative, because it's about measuring the People's Party's commitment to this year's stay, it's about measuring the policy change in counseling after Mrs Mosquera's cessation and, for that, we want to make a very simple proposal. Five things: universal health, paralyzing the privatizations and reversals of Vigo hospital, restoring primary care, restoring human resources and, of course, guaranteeing, I don't know if with solvency or without it, the budget necessary for our public health. Five proposals, Mr People's Party. Real proposals, possible proposals, proposals for consensus but, above all, essential proposals to demonstrate that you want to change and that, in addition, that recovery that you announce the bomb and plate will not be left to have only two more advisories. I suppose, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that all this suffering that has been applied to the Greek people, all that deterioration of our public health, will not only serve to move from eight advisors to ten advisors. I guess we didn't have to fight so much to get Mrs Mosquera to stop at last so that everything would continue the same. Mr. Santalices, agreement. Mr. Santalices, let's sit down and talk about the money that really needs public health. Look, solvent was Uncle Gilito, I don't know if he remembers, but he didn't spend a lot of weight. So I think the solution isn't solvency. We are speaking seriously and strictly about the public health system, which is not universal, Mr Santalices, which is not universal as it is collected in law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u161	Mrs. Hold on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u162	A pact, Mr. Santalices. Let us remember what we need, the budget that the public and universal health system needs, and we will ensure among all that, government who governs, public health will count on that budget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u164	I hope they vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u165	Mrs. Acuña, what about the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u166	I said it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u167	I didn't hear him, I'm sorry. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u168	We move on to the motions vote... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Santalices, are you going up or...? Well, let's move on to the motion vote. Let's start with the first... please be quiet, please, so there's no problem with the votes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We begin with the vote on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Docasar, which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the education system in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u169	We voted for the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Prado, who said he accepted the two amendments tabled. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the provision of hospital beds and staff, as well as the situation of waiting lists in Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u170	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Acuña do Campo, who said that she accepted the three amendments tabled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I just didn't hear her, Mrs. Acuña. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Don't you accept the amendments? [[Murmurs.]] Perfect. He does not accept any of the three amendments tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the sustainability of the public health system of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u171	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece to improve the population coverage of influenza vaccination
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u172	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u173	You have the floor to formulate your proposal not of law, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u174	Thank you again, Madam President. I'm sorry about the incident before, but I thought we were going to follow, I woke up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, I don't think it's a reason to call order, we can all be dismissed, but if it's necessary for me to call order, please God! Mrs. Acuña, I take the last word...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u175	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u176	No, no... I believe that the last word you said about a health pact, I think that since this tribune we have made offers to talk about a health pact. So, if you come with this now, because it seems reasonable to me, it seems reasonable to me, to see if we can do it. We're going to talk about a subject that also has a lot of interest, especially for a population that may be at risk as it is, and as we're going to explain throughout this non-law proposition, the population over 60 years old. On the 19th of this month, the anti-gripal vaccination campaign began, a fact that is repeated every year by these dates, and this non-law proposition is to focus on the importance that it has to be vaccinated to alleviate the evil effects of influenza and that are many: complications of certain pathologies, especially those chronic pathologies, metabolic diseases and other diseases such as cancer. As the vaccination campaign has begun, it seems appropriate that we should talk about this matter in this Parliament because it seems to me a good subject, a reasonable issue, that Parliament is also going to raise awareness of the population of the importance of vaccination. Parliament has its echo in society and I think we should use it for certain positive messages for our society, I don't think that anyone is upset that we can... Besides, nothing will happen because Parliament agrees that it focuses on the importance of vaccination, in this case of influenza. I don't think it should bother anyone that we're trying to spread positive messages from Parliament. So I hope that we will reach an agreement on this matter. The flu, undoubtedly, is a mild disease that affects a lot of people and we're not talking about the epidemic when we talk about the flu, we're already talking about even pandemics. The flu especially affects certain groups, people with other pathologies such as chronic pulmonary diseases or, especially, cardiovascular diseases. Data on influenza mortality has already been published, data that is certainly worrying. In particular, in the period 2013-2014 there were 58 people who died in Galicia as a result of the flu, the triple of the people who die on our roads. So we're not dealing with a minor issue. One fact that I understand worrying and as we increase vaccination we will be decreasing the percentage of this mortality. We also said that the flu, and this was verified, is associated with the complications of chronic diseases. Between 2014 and 2015 we are already close to finishing, of the 1,978 people treated with flu, 709 had to be admitted – certainly a significant figure – not as a result of the flu itself but as a result of the complications that cause the flu. The average stay – without going into cost analyses now, which we will enter at the end – of the processes that had to enter as a result of the complications of the flu was up to eleven days, an average stay certainly high because undoubtedly we are faced with serious complications as well. As I said at the outset, since the campaign began on October 19, it seems appropriate that we remember and attack people who should be vaccinated: people at risk of complications, essentially people over 60, and especially those over 65. We must also impress on those people of any age who reside in closed institutions. Also, of course, in pregnant women and people under the age of 60 with pathologies that may have respiratory, cardiovascular complications, etc. It would also be necessary to vaccinate people who could transmit the flu or transmit the flu to people with a high risk of complications. Also, and this has been done for many years now, the staff who work in health centers and the staff who live with people and risk groups. Finally, an important, large population, but with vaccination, I think we would reduce the impact on the population. Right now, and according to the data I repeated from the council, 900 vaccination points are arranged throughout the autonomous community. They are especially in primary and specialized care centres, medical centers, private consultations, prison centres, senior residences and any other requesting and authorized by the board. There are also 530,100 doses of vaccine. And here we go into the fact that it's really more worrying, even here are contrasted data that we can analyze and that they are important, but maybe the most important thing is what is the level of population coverage, which is the coverage data about the population using the Danish population as reference. This, if we compare it to last year's data, is below the targets we've scored for this year. So for this year, we're marked that the 65-year-olds have a coverage of over 65%. If we take as reference the data reached last year, in which the coverage was 52.3%, we are thirteen points below the target marked. So it deserves this matter if you make an effort. If we also analyze the population between 60 and 64 years of age, we mark this year a target of 35%. But if we take the hit last year as a result, this data drops significantly because the coverage was 20%, fifteen points below the target we scored for this year. And if we take health workers as reference, we're marking a 35% target this year. Last year's data is 18.27%, so we're at a certain low percentage. This is a problem, and here's where we have to go, and we have to get from the administration, we have to go from primary care consulting, specialized care, we have to go from the Faculty of Medicine and, why not, from this Parliament, from the schools and from anywhere we can get to the population to make her aware of the importance of this vaccine. We also have to tell you that there's another vaccine for people older than 75 years old, that there's a lot of misinformation about this, and that there's also vaccine for people who have allergies. All of this must be told, and I think it's okay because it's being told in Parliament, it's not just Parliament we're discussing, I think we should also use Parliament for positive messages. So... yes, this is a positive message and you vote can also vaccinate, of course, why not? [[Murmurs.]] This is for everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u177	Go finish, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u178	...to be vaccinated, anything that is immunizing is positive. We therefore propose that Parliament insist on increasing the efforts being made to improve population coverage with regard to influenza vaccination. We have given here data that are worrying, an effort, a message from Parliament to increase the level of vaccination coverage. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a positive proposal of course and I hope that you will have the support of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, please. Mrs. Martínez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u180	Thank you, President. The truth is that I just got excited after Mr Santalices' intervention, because I really believe that Parliament is not the place where to advertise or advertise, nor the place to educate the population about health and what to do or should not be done; Parliament is supposed to legislate and to make the rules that others will later have to take forward. So I don't understand what Mr. Santalices has just done. It is true that the influenza vaccine is free for more than 60 years and for the at-risk groups – Mr. Santallices has spoken of as these collectives at risk, even though he didn't say them all – but I really can't take this non-legislative proposal from the People's Party when there's nothing voting against normalizing men's B vaccine and when he doesn't really take that preventive health policy, but when he does commits himself to that only those who can afford it can prevent diseases and the poorest have to suffer from disease. Thus, despite the insistence of the People's Party and Sergas on people being vaccinated, nearly half of people over 65 did not get vaccinated last year and only did one in five people between 60 and 64. Last year, as the spokesperson for the People's Party said, there were 58 flu deaths and more than 700 hospital incomes were registered, which caused a collapse in the Welsh hospital emergency wards of which former Mosquera councillor held patients responsible for saying that her guilt had the large number of citizens who went to the emergency service and that 70% of those who went to the influenza emergency service were not vaccinated. For precisely one must insist on the role of primary care in health education, and I repeat again: one must wager for primary care, if not all health efforts will be useless. The former health counsellor of patients' influx to emergencies was complained, and I say, of course, patients and patients are real selfish people who come to the hospital when they're ill, citizenship has to know that when they're ill they have to go to the bar or a library, but they don't have to go to a hospital because hospitals aren't going to go to people when they're sick. It really seems like a lie that you make similar claims. In addition, patients who go to the emergency because of lack of beds, lack of staff, lack of diapers and all the deficiencies in the health system cannot be held accountable. For the Government, it seems, they have nothing to do with these flu spills with the dismantling of primary care, with the lack of health centres, with pharmaceutical support, with long-term unemployment, with the increase of poverty, which forces poor food and poor living conditions, or with energy poverty, which condemns thousands of Greeks living in conditions of low temperatures and high degree of humidity. But now, and in spite of all this, I want to think that the People's Party really has the concern because this year we don't suffer again what we have last winter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u181	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u182	...–I've finished with these shows in the emergency room. That's why I present this amendment, to ensure that the People's Party forgets its concern and can vaccinate the whole population, making the whole population receive that vaccine free of charge, if not all will be propaganda. So I hope that the People's Party, if you really want to give a coverage of the vaccine to the whole population, accept the amendment, which would also reduce tremendous hospital care costs and dramatically reduce the collapse of the Greek emergencies in winter. Waiting for me to accept the amendment, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u184	Thank you, President. It is clear what is the health model of the People's Party. Amancio Ortega used to be the reference model of the former Labour Adviser – now converted to Environmental Counsellor – but now we see how the model is also followed by the People's Party as a whole, starting with its own president and following by the voices; it is regrettable. Mr. Santalices, this isn't about the importance of influenza vaccination, this initiative is not about the importance of increasing the spectrum of vaccination; what you have done here today – and you've already done it on other occasions – is a more propaganda exercise, this is about the publicity and propaganda department of the People's Party, and your intervention seemed to be more of a public report than a defence of something serious. At the BNG we deeply regret that the People's Party, with the very serious problems of public health in this country, decides to bring to this Parliament issues of this great magnitude and that it opts for a publicity announcement rather than take the serious problems of public health strictly. Look at one thing, to improve population coverage with regard to influenza vaccination, we need something more than speeches and press releases, we need something more than the advertising and propaganda department, Mr. Santalices. That's why at the BNG we tabled an amendment to this initiative in which we demand, first, to put in place the Primary Care Improvement Plan with the necessary economic resources, and secondly, to dimension the templates, start with the replacements of the squares removed from the application of the replenishment rates and provide resources for primary health and care centres, so that professionals are not subject to a continuous workload. This increase in coverage requires resources. I'm going to tell you, if you want, the concrete situation of a specific health center – the one in my county – that's where an average of 2,000 people are vaccinated in each influenza vaccine campaign -- that is, about 2,000 people have to be cited and 2,000 people have to put the flu vaccine in a two-month period, right? This year the campaign is from October 19th to December 19th – well, in a period of two months – A fantastic picture! A specific consultation is conducted for the influenza vaccine, no additional staff are enabled, the nursing staff run through that consultation, the administrative staff have to quote these people – i.e. an average of around 50 people per day –, obviously, the care burden. How much more personal? Zero. How much more resources? Zero. Staff replacement? There's got to be two ATS down to cover a person for a few hours. Look, on yesterday, October 26, there were two ATSs who didn't come to work for different reasons, one single person hired until 12 in the morning exclusively and it turns out that there were two serious emergencies, an infarction and a convulsion in a teaching center of the municipality; they have to go out to meet those emergencies, they have to attend their consultations. What about the flu vaccine? Solution: It's called the person who was up to 12 o'clock. And you come here saying you want to expand the influenza vaccination coverage? Of course, but put resources, Mr. Santalices, on the table; don't mistreat the staff or you're here to do a misreport of the good that things do, when what they're doing is totally dismantling primary care, because I don't have to repeat here the loss of resolution capacity, low budget, personal – like I just said –; i.e., one, one, more, one... and it turns out that, with less resources, you want to remove breast saying that you can do more. No, with fewer resources and less personnel, you can't do more without mistreating the staff and without things doing medium enough. Because, besides, Mr. Santalices, I tell you that those people who are going to be vaccinated are quoted and, like in the Mili, put the vaccine, it doesn't appear in history and nothing else is done at all. With which, a little bit of rigour, they leave the multi-reports for the election campaign that starts in a few days and have a little seriousness for the public health of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u185	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u186	It would be good if they once had some seriousness with the public health of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u187	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u188	Thank you, President. The truth is, I was tempted to go out and not talk about the initiative, but soon I found it appropriate to call on Marx to define this situation. Not Karl Marx, that the situation is not as high as it is for that, but Groucho Marx, with what politics is the art of looking for problems, finding them, making a false diagnosis and then applying the wrong results. Of course, only by resorting to traxicomedia can you understand this kind of People's Party initiative, which in this case calls for increased efforts to improve the population coverage of the influenza vaccine; that is, nothing concrete. They've been talking about a vaccine that's been administered for many years, actually, which already has defined population groups. And if the Galician Union believes that fewer people are being vaccinated, or that it is not enough, because it is doing a study of motives and means, because here there is nothing concrete that is proposed through the initiative. I wonder what they're asking for on this initiative. It's a press release, probably to remind us that we're in the middle of the flu vaccination campaign, but Parliament is not for that, Mr. Santalices. For that is the Union, and for that there are political responsibilities and health responsibilities in how health services are held, including primary care itself. Debating this here is the truth that I don't see any sense in it. However, last year it took time for you to blame people who weren't vaccinated and that's why they collapsed. I didn't forget it, and I guess no one forgot this. And emergency collapses, saturations, if they're a real problem. Why don't we talk about it? Why don't we talk about it, what's going on? Are you going to relate again this year to the decrease in vaccination with collapses? That would be a good subject for discussion. Emergency services know they're still with saturations throughout the year; on time, but more and more for longer. The situation where Ourense is, the situation where the CHUAC is, and now the situation where the new Vigo hospital is. You know they had problems the previous weeks, because even after the merger of two services – that if it was fatal, it was fatal, the transfer was a chapuza, there is no guide to the merger, and there are already problems – emergency observation beds were lost, emergency stations were lost, with which that would be a good topic to talk about. Or if you want to talk about vaccines, you could talk about your strange vaccine policy, which allows you to market the meningitis B vaccine and, however, does not allow it to be for all Galician children. I told you the other day in the commission, I don't understand your policy, because if it's valid, if there's scientific evidence to market it, there's it for all the children and all the girls. And they should explain – we will speak on Friday – why in the 2016 budget, after having repeated for years and having defended the download in the games for vaccination programs saying they were the fruit of the centralized purchase, this year – oh! Curiosity, which we are in the election year – you increase the game for vaccination programs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let's have real discussions with real proposals. There's no proposal here, although the truth is that it's difficult, because, given the visa, it seems that beyond the health strategy oriented by economic interest, you have little to offer to our health care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u189	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u190	Frankly, if the proposals that the People's Party is going to bring into what is left of legislation are going to be privatizations and publishing reports, the truth is that it would be better if they were to think of their People's Party lords in changing their seats.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Group, you have the floor to Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u192	Thank you again, President. Mr. Santalices, the truth is, I'd like you to tell us here high and clear what you're looking for with such a transcendental initiative. Look, at the worst moment of the Welsh public health, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group that supports the Government, the only thing that happens to it is to ask its government for more effort with the influenza vaccine. Look, I don't know if you think maybe talking about the flu we're going to forget the absolute failure of Mr. Feijóo's health management or we're going to forget the swindling so absolute that he's become the PP hospital in Vigo. But look, I have to tell you, Mr. Santalices, that you're wrong about strategy. Because, look, with this initiative the only thing you can point out is that the deterioration of health with Mr. Feijóo's policies is such, it is such that the vaccination of influenza, Mr. Santalices, and not the vaccination of influenza, no longer works! By the way, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have warned you very clearly in many debates about the risk of reducing by 4 million – 4 million since you reached the Government – the game for the vaccination of 20 million. In fact, this year I think 500,000, I don't know if it's ruined the centralized purchase. But look, if they really want more vaccination effort, they're putting the men's B vaccine into the vaccination schedule. Mr. Santalices, yesterday I was a kid in Boiro, and today I think a child in Carballo. How many more Greek children and girls are going to have to get sick, Mr. Santalices, so you can change your mind? I'll ask her that question and leave her in the air. Look, indeed, last winter, the advisor intended to blame the citizenship of the widespread collapses of the emergency services of all the Greek hospitals. It was the fault of the people, it was the people because they were sick, and they were sick because they didn't vaccinate the flu. This year, as you've already seen the collapses come closer, because they come running here, I don't know, asking for effort, asking for more people to be vaccinated. But they don't take into account your request, Mr. Santalices, that who is actually the primary care vaccine, and that's exactly what you have most hurt. In addition, they will continue to hurt him, because in the budgets for the year 2016 – I insist, against all prognosis and logic – they will again reduce primary care budgets. And not to mention, Mr. Santalices, who puts the influenza vaccine on it is nursing. Look, if you're a nurse, you can't apply any drug that wasn't previously prescribed by the doctor, as your ministry now tells you, you can't either vaccinate the flu, because I know the vaccine is indicated, Mr. Santalices, but you haven't prescribed it. What a mess! What a mess Mr. Alonso now has with all the nursing, and also with all the medicine, Mr. Santalices. But what you didn't say is what you're going to do about that effort that asks the Government of the Union, because your initiative expresses only one wish. I don't know if you want to lower the age of vaccination, if you make a special impact on some more exposed collective, I don't know. But, look, I'll give you an idea. If you want to increase the response of vaccination in the collective you are now, aged 65, because you can make an offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u193	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u194	...all that person who's vaccinating the flu down ten places on the waiting list. What do you think? Maybe that's how we managed to increase vaccination, because it's such a disaster, Mr. Santalices, that I don't know if we have to answer it in this direction. Look, the socialists are not going to contribute to wasting time talking about the flu in these so dramatic circumstances that public health lives. Because, look, the increase in influenza vaccination won't solve the failure of Feijóo's – finished – health policy, the scam of Vigo's hospital, not even the widespread collapses. Because, Mr. Santalices, our emergency services also unfortunately collapse in August.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Santalices Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I, after this debate, don't know if you want people to get away with it. Well, it became clear, it was absolutely clear. [[Murmurs.]] I'm clearly looking for people to vaccinate, because it's of fundamental importance to prevent diseases. This seems to you as an initiative... to me as an initiative which is very well designed for Parliament to decide on something that has an impact on citizenship. I think this is normal, what is Parliament for? I don't come here to do propaganda, quite the opposite, quite the opposite, quite the opposite. [[Laughter]] Or, if not, they weren't careful. I said we have a very important problem, that we have a population coverage at a very low vaccine level. This is a problem. And here is what this Member and this parliamentary group are asking for the administration to do its best to increase this. That is the work of the Administration, but we, as Members – at least me and my group – will ask for it. Because we want to prevent people from dying, we want to avoid diseases, maybe when it's avoidable with the vaccine. You don't want to. Well, in there, you vote that no, you vote that no, that's easy. This is easy here: yes, no or abstention. They vote no, so it's clear they don't want to. Look, you tell me we can launch some proposals. Of course you can make some proposals. There's a particularly vulnerable collective, we've already said here: over 65 years of age with pathologies with complications. If you make an active call from the health center, you're a risk group, you'll be vaccinated. Does that sound bad? Do you think it's wrong? It's just that this seems bad to you; however, to you, who seems bad to you, I remember – that I've been here for some time – that makes me a proposal about how we promote cachibol. Please! Yes, motion for a resolution, the baseball game. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You'll buy me the game of cachibolism with which the population is aware of the importance of vaccination. There you are! [[Murmurs.]] The flu is a mild disease, we can avoid its complications. The goal of this non-law proposal was to raise this low coverage we have in our health care personnel and in our most vulnerable staff. We've been looking at this almost 10 points every year – the population coverage at the vaccine level – and we've been quiet. But what does this Parliament do for? Parliament will have to watch and say: Listen, the level of population coverage increases with the vaccine, because we're avoiding income, we're avoiding a lot of things. I'm not getting into the economics. It's 2 million what's being invested in the flu vaccine, but we're avoiding hospitalizations -- I've said before --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u198	...which is much more expensive. And the fundamental: we're avoiding deaths. There you vote not, with your conscience. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u199	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece to guarantee all women the possibility of access to assisted reproduction techniques in Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u200	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the People's Group of Galicia and the Socialist Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u201	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u202	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, assisted reproduction has always been of the most unequal benefits of the health system. The long waiting lists and differences of attention time and criteria between administrations were constant. So much so that the Ombudsman and the Economic and Social Council have requested explanations from the autonomous communities. The Human Assisted Reproduction Act, adopted in 2006, states that every woman aged 18 and fully capable of working may be a recipient or user of the techniques regulated in this Act, regardless of their marital status and sexual orientation. In October 2014, the rights under this law were restricted when published in the Official State Gazette to Ministerial Order, with the new basic portfolio of the National Health System, SSI2065/2014, amending point 5.3.8.1 on assisted reproductive treatments. And it sets out that for access to them it requires to demonstrate the absence of pregnancy after a minimum of twelve months of sexual intercourse with vaginal coitus without the use of contraceptive methods. It does not specify whether such sexual relations will be performed with one or more sperm carriers or how such acts should be believed. What is evident is the discrimination that women without men – lesbians and women alone – are objects. The question is that the People's Party and its former Minister Ana Mato contemplate the application of this benefit only for clinical reasons, clearly contradicting the law – as it is already clear –. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the right of women to be mothers, excluding – as the law makes clear – their civil status or sexual orientation. The cost to the health system of applying these treatments in healthy women is minimal, for in most cases these are simple techniques such as inseminations, with a cost in the public network of about 300 euros; compared to in vitro fertilization, which is much more expensive and less safe, and which is used by heterosexual couples with fertility problems. So it is clear that the reasons for discrimination against lesbians and women alone are neither economic nor medical – they are harmless and highly effective treatments – we only have to attribute the modification of the law to ideological reasons; reasons which, on the other hand, are not shared by all the militancy and voters and voters of the People's Party. This is known and is in public domain, you yourself in this Parliament have approved the Law for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. And in their ranks, even in positions of political responsibility, there are naturally new forms of family that do not follow the pattern of the heterosexual family. That is why she does not understand the use of the same-sex marriage law before the Constitutional Court, nor the change in the ministerial order of this assisted reproduction law, the result of a double moral and ambiguity on the part of the People's Party. The technical general secretary of the Health Council, Ms. Josefina Monteagudo Romero, at this honourable Member's question in the Health Committee, shows the Council's willingness – to ignore the restrictions contained in the ministerial order for lesbian women or without a couple. And so they also assure the representatives of the collective Nous Mesmas, whom I greet because they are up there -- what's the matter, comrades? -- in a recent interview, guaranteeing them the benefit. That's right here in Galicia. On the other hand, Cristina Cifuentes, president of the Madrid Community, of the People's Party, in statements to El Mundo's newspaper on the 7th of this month announces that the Regional Administration will give immediate entry to all women in public assisted reproduction treatments, regardless of their sexual status and whether or not they have a partner. All women – said Cristina Cifuentes – must be on equal terms, regardless of whether they have a partner or whether they are of the same sex or straight, and have the same right to assisted reproduction. And the new President of the Madrid Community says that this will be implemented in the Madrid Community through legislation against sexual discrimination that his own team is preparing. And she insists that all women, regardless of their situation, should be included in the service portfolio throughout Spain as an important step towards achieving real equality in terms of non-discrimination by sexual orientation or identity. With these words, Mrs Cifuentes is referring to the decision of the Ministry of Health in July 2013 to approve a new basic portfolio of the national health system in which the financing of assisted reproduction was offered for therapeutic or preventive reasons. Which leaves treatment applied to medical criteria that may become so sharp that within the same community some centres care for women without men – words from the minister, not this lady – and others not. Equality and non-discrimination are above the closure of politicians and doctors who, according to their ideological principles, legitimate but individual, want to impose a single model of family, the heteropatriarchal model of monotheistic religions. The Ministry of Health must immediately fix the disguise of a ministerial order that contravenes a law, the highest-ranking rule. While autonomous communities must guarantee the provision of service to all women regardless of their identity, sexual orientation and civil status, or they will be violating the law; as the judge Ophelia Ruíz of the Social Court No. 18 said before the complaint made by a couple of lesbians directed against Jiménez Ruíz Hospital to the Health Council of the Community of Madrid and the Ministry of Health for the interruption of treatment that one of them was receiving on the basis of the questionable and questionable ministerial order. The judge considers the couple's fundamental right not to be discriminated against by their sexual orientation to be violated, and provides for a compensation of EUR 4,875 that the hospital will resort to, but will not do so by the Madrid Community, as its president has said. He apologizes for the judgment of the Ministry of Health because the Social Court cannot derogate a ministerial order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u203	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u204	And it is based on the conviction that both the Community and the hospital pay attention to an order that violates a law. To the communities of Estremadura, Andalusia, Canary Islands, Basque Country, Catalonia and Asturias, to all these communities, just added the Community of Madrid and Valencia, welcoming all the family models. That the Health Council should ensure that the ministerial order will not be implemented is not the same as Parliament's ruling on it. So I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that with your affirmative vote on this GNP, Galicia will add to the communities mentioned above. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u205	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group. You have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, too, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the girls of Us who accompany us in the public. From the Socialist Parliament's Group, of course, we are going to support this Joint Group initiative and to that end we are presenting an amendment to add, so that, in addition to trying to make sure that, in Galicia, we do not really pay attention to that ministerial order and comply with what state legislation says, we can ensure that this provision is made in the public health system, that this provision is made in the public health system without waiting lists and, in addition, that it is done in the public health system without waiting lists, that the criteria for admitting women who want to have these assisted reproductive techniques are made with the same age range, at least, that it is done in private health. Because it's true that in Galicia these assisted reproduction systems are being carried out, but it's also true that waiting lists in many cases make women who want to be mothers through this assisted playback system, so that they pass on waiting lists, at least for more than two years, come a moment when it's no longer feasible to make that assisted reproduction; because, as their lords know, the age that is set in this case in Galicia is 40 years. And, therefore, we understand that it is a very low age considering what changed the behavior of society, with the incorporation of women into the world of work, with a greater delay in the incorporation of women into the world of work and, therefore, with the decision to have children today much later than it was years ago. Indeed, as Mrs Iglesias said, there is a ministerial order that comes from an agreement by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System of July 2013, but that ministerial order effectively contradicted state legislation. What happens is that while this ministerial order is in force, there may be doctors and doctors who take her in and refuse treatment or entry into the system to be able to access a reproductive benefit assisted by many women. And we know that in Galicia in public health it's not happening, but if it's true that some family doctors, head doctors, we call them commonly, if they have some confusion -- we want to think it's some confusion, we don't want to think they're ideological reasons -- and that in some cases women alone have the sexual orientation they have, they're telling them that they have no right to these assisted reproduction techniques. And it's also happening that in the new hospital, which the socialists always say is small, private, expensive and absolutely precarious, Vigo no longer has a waiting list, is that there is nothing; that is, the women who attend there at this moment don't know what to land to access these assisted reproduction techniques. The amendment of the Socialist Group therefore adds to Mrs Iglesias' initiative the need to remove waiting lists in the public system, the need to increase the age of acceptance to assist women's assisted reproductive techniques beyond the age of 40, and also, of course, the need to clarify the rule and to comply with the law and not the ministerial order, to avoid confusion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u207	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u208	...or the ideology of some head doctors. And I just want to say some pearl that in his day that health minister – fortunately he is no longer – said when they asked him why he wanted to exclude women alone or lesbian women from assisted reproduction. Then Mrs. Mato said that "the lack of a male is not a medical problem." Of course, when I came from a lady who when they asked her what was her best time of day she said, "In the morning when I see how they dress my children," what can we expect from such a rich and so reactionary person? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u209	Thank you very much. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As for the initiative we have just heard from the Joint Group and which is intended to urge the Galician Board to ensure access to reproductive techniques assisted in the Galician Health Service to all women without discrimination, committed to offering this public health service to women without a partner or a male partner, the first thing I would like to ask, Mrs. Iglesias, is to tell you that she can be calm, that in our autonomous community there will be no discrimination, nor will there be any kind of discrimination in the application of human reproduction treatments assisted by the women of Wales. The order you speak of in your initiative, the order of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, literally says: "Finally, assisted human reproduction is referred to in paragraph 5.3.8 of Annex III to Royal Decree 1.030/2006 of 15 September, for cases where there is a diagnosis of sterility" – which was in principle the intention of assisted reproduction in its beginnings – "or a clinical indication established, in accordance with the programs of each health service and specifically citing the techniques it includes", as well as updating – very important data the progress being made on this topic – "techniques according to the available scientific evidence". The purpose of Annex III to the Royal Decree is therefore to amend, as you well said, in paragraph 5.3.8.1, that assisted human reproduction treatments will have the purpose of helping to manage those persons unable to achieve it naturally, in the case of exclusively pharmacological treatments or after the failure of them; these procedures may also be used in order to avoid, as you know, serious genetic diseases or disorders in offspring. And then it sets out the conditions for the provision, the criteria for access to treatments and the specific criteria for each technique. You used to say in your speech that in the 21st Committee on Health, the Secretary General of the Health Council came in precisely to answer a question you were asking and I think your answer was clear enough, literally said, "In the Galician Health Service there is still a protocol where at all the women you are referring to are excluded or discriminated against because they have no partner or partner of the same sex." In Galicia, Your Honor, we don't have that problem, we will have many others, but we don't have that problem because we have the Technical Guide to the Assisted Human Reproduction Process, which has a number of rules and recommendations for assisted human reproduction units and for professionals who have to make decisions on this subject. This guide has been working for many years without any problems. Obviously, it is reviewed because, as I told you before, progress is made in the knowledge and treatment of infertility and also because new techniques are incorporated into assisted reproductive care processes. In that guide, in which it is currently being used – which is the revision in 2011, which continues into force until the next revision – in point 6, for example, the general criteria for inclusion – are spoken of by age, sterility, hereditary or genetic disease, as I told you – as well as exclusion criteria, such as the existence of a medical contraindication for treatment or management. Therefore, Your Honor, in our autonomous community and in the Galego Health Service, there will never be discrimination and access to these benefits of women has never been discriminated against, which obviously meet the inclusion criteria for age, health conditions, etc. That's why we, from the People's Group, have tabled an amendment, because we are in Galicia and we are concerned about the Greek women and, regardless of whether they have the same sex or have no partners, they will not be excluded or discriminated against in access to the treatment of assisted human reproduction, so we hope they will accept our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u211	The Galician Nationalist Block has the floor for Mrs. Prado. Excuse me, Mrs. Adam. It's just that I've got Mrs. Prado here, but it'll be my mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u212	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, too, to the women who accompany us to hear this debate. Congratulations, of course, to the honourable Member who is presenting this initiative to debate here today so that the position of the Greek Parliament is clear to what was clearly clear discrimination and also for some ideological reasons which are at the bottom and which we should debate and which, in addition, I think it is good to debate this initiative, as it has already been read from this rostrum, but I think it is important that we do it again. What is being debated is that the Government of Greece, in particular Sergas, is being urged to have access to assisted reproductive techniques without discrimination, and to offer this service of access to assisted reproductive techniques in the public health service to women without a couple or a male who apply for it and that the current state legislation excludes from the health service portfolio. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the law protects these women, it is very clear that the law gives these women – both in force and in law. As already mentioned, women's right to form their own family has been collected since 1988 and is clearly collected in an assisted reproduction law since 2006. So neither do we understand before nor do we now understand that there may be some kind of debate or some kind of problem in this regard. At the moment we have already criticized from the parliamentary group, from the BNG, the situation that Minister Ana Mato has created; incomprehensible, here are some of his famous quotations that are going to pass into history really because he doesn't understand anything about what the new family models are and about freedom and equality, but it is that even today he's monitoring that ministerial order about the basic service portfolio is unheard of and since each Autonomous Community has to change and that... In fact, we heard in the Commission what the Secretary-General had to do with this commitment, but it is important that it also comes out of this plenary commitment to all the votes of Members and Members, because what was behind all that argument that we had submitted to during – I think I remember – 2013 was whether, in fact, women alone can or not form a family, that is what existed as a basis in all the argument. Of course, I think we'll make it clear that women alone, men alone, men accompanied and women accompanied can form different family models. And, I say, after the laws that exist, after adopting a Greek law for non-discrimination and equal treatment during this legislation, that we have to debate this again, I say, it really still seems to me to be unheard of. It seems to us an important initiative because it is important that we constantly repeat that equality is achieved every day and that in these aspects it is where we walk clearly towards equality, when we put a mirror and show and we submit the debate if we actually believe in equality or if we continue to discriminate well whether women, almost always women, because of their sexual orientation. The vigil of the ministerial order itself and that there may be optional or optional people who question whether women alone or women access assisted reproductive techniques is already a problem because it is to turn into a stereotype, because it is to continue to put on suspicion if the public health system has to cost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u213	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u214	...these techniques. We have this absolutely clear, we will support this initiative and all the initiatives that underpin equal treatment and the rights of all women. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u216	Thank you, President. "Futuro is written with F of children", of daughters not, it seems, well, it depends; it depends on the sexual orientation of the future mother or depends on whether she wants to be married or not. This is the slogan of the 2015 Junta Demographic Campaign. As has already been explained here at the end of 2014, we have discussed it on one occasion, the Central Government has again decided by the women, it has again strengthened the measures – let us say – on which the patriarchal, heteropatriarchal system is based, and approved that order which has already been appointed here, on 2065/2014, of 31 October, which amends precisely the real decree establishing the common service portfolio of the national health system and on which, as already indicated, limits the possibility of access to assisted reproductive treatments, limiting it to the therapeutic end and to a preventive end. The limit of access is set in the existence, as already explained, of a documented problem of reproductive capacity or the absence of a pregnancy after at least twelve months of relationships with vaginal coitus. I mean, all the women are left who won't have twelve months of attempts during relationships with a man and, therefore, non-heterosexual women with a female couple or those who don't have a partner or don't want to have it and who do want to be mothers. Besides, as already mentioned here, only 40 years for women and only if they have no other son or daughter before. In addition, fill in the specifications, the characteristics of artificial inseminations and in vitro fertilization. I mean, the state has again discriminated against women who don't want to have relations with men, the government again thinks it can legislate through the rights of women themselves just as it did when it tried to modify the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act at an early stage to limit the right to abortion and later did so to limit it to minors who have family problems. Of course, how do women decide about ourselves, about our bodies? The Government is to guarantee the rights of all citizens without discrimination, and this measure of central government is not only that it is based on stone, let's say, heteronormatives but also that it is deeply classist, because women who do have economic capacity can go to a private clinic. I don't know if your lords know the price of treatments, I'm not talking about consultations anymore, but artificial inseminations have a price that runs around an average of 700 euros, from there to the top, and that they're much higher – from 2,000 euros – if we're talking about inseminations with sick seeds and an in vitro fertilization can cost about 5,000 euros. So it's not only a lesbophobic, misoxin measure, but also a measure that discriminates against working class women. Therefore, in the case of the German Government, if they are so concerned about the demographic theme, they should not only ensure that all women have access to assisted reproductive treatments, but also, as the PSdeG spokesperson already indicated, they should improve their own assisted reproductive services by training new professionals to decrease their waiting lists because the truth is, in the case of in vitro fertilization is unbearable, and some women who have already come from previous treatments may go through years and years to get pregnant. Of course, above the demography, I don't know if for the German Government, but for the central government it seems more important to pass over women's rights and legislate once again on our bodies. We believe that such measures, ladies and gentlemen, are measures that also mean violence against women, they are deeply retrograde measures. We understand that if the Self-Government intends to secure this right, not only would it be a positive commitment from this House but it would be a claim from the Central Government that it withdraws that measure or that publication from that measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u217	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u218	...which is deeply damaging to women and which, as has already been said here, also leaves the interpretation of some health professionals open. Human beings are diversity, and the obligation of governments is therefore to guarantee rights for all without any distinction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u219	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs Iglesias. Give a voice to Mrs. Iglesias' chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u220	Thank you, President. And thanks to the one who clearly stood in favour of this LNP. I can't thank other groups because I don't know what they're going to do. Anyway, I'm going to manifest myself on the amendments. I accept the amendment from the PP because it does not distort at all what this honourable Member wants: that assisted reproduction be in Sergas, that is, in the public, all women, without discrimination, committed to offering this public health service to women without a couple or a male couple who apply for it. Besides, I've consulted with the collective, because I'm not able to make a decision for myself, and they agree. What I will not accept is the amendment by the Socialist Party, the PSdEG, because it seems to me that it is the subject of another LNP and that it would hinder the approval, if it were the case, of what we are discussing. This is not the issue of lists, there are lists of waiting for cancer, there are waiting lists in immense social security, but this is the subject of another LNP, which is given me time, because of the constraints of the Joint Group and the Members of the Joint Group, if I give myself time to take it to a commission or to take it to plenary, I will also try to do it, but it's no reason for this question that we're dealing with. If this initiative is approved, it is a good day for Galicia, for the rights of all of us in equality. It's a great day to congratulate ourselves, because I think it's a step forward in the rights to equality. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u221	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council on the data included in the report on the economic and social situation of Galicia of 2014, adopted by the Economic and Social Council of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u222	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor, Mrs. Díaz, to make your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u223	Good afternoon. We're bringing back a subject that has to do with the report issued last June 6 by the ESC. We brought it in the form of an interpellation and even in the form of a motion, and, as you well know, in part also in several of the motions for resolutions that we brought up the debate and adoption in the debate of the state of the nation and which was deeply rejected by the majority group of this House. It is appropriate to have this report before our tables because, as I said, it serves as an amendment to the entire management that is being done by the Government of Galicia. And even as we're in the season of budgetary debate, and especially in the season of propaganda and publicity by the People's Party, I suppose it will help you to accept some of the amendments that we will have to incorporate into this debate since the opposition. By recalling some of the issues, the ESC's report was very strong against the People's Party and its management by pointing out that the policies practiced by the People's Party are generating and exacerbating a rift of gross social inequality in our country. He used to say, for example, things that are so thick that the labour and family reconciliation policies that you assume are absolutely impossible in our country. He said things as thick as people who are in a state of unemployment and are unemployed or long-term unemployed do not have any kind of social coverage, and he even claimed that there is nothing more in our country and nothing less than 177,000 people who do not have any kind of recourse. I was talking about this report on administrative matters that you suspect, and what I suppose Mrs Rodríguez will again assume in this House about the increase in the risk budget. But we just want you to take care of the claims that are being made in the ESC report on issues that actually prevent the attention or the granting of Risk to the thousands of people who are in the process of it, or, for example, to the thousands of people who are on the waiting list – today, who have talked about health – for a dependency benefit. For example, as far as Risga is concerned, it would be very good if you were to take care of the claims made by the ESC report or even the technical reports that we already have to evaluate our own Risk in our country. For example, the criticisms that are being made by technicians and techniques regarding this discontent in the need for that new social inclusion report or even the substantial amount of documentation that is being requested for the processing of a risk that, as you well know, has even been hardened by the access of the people who were in it. There are also issues to say that they call our attention and that they have to be immediately repaired by the Galician Union. And it's that the data that we have about the amount of risks that are dismissed by the Galician Union gives an amount that is surprisingly high, exactly 41.27%, and even those new profiles that are in the public reports of people, for example, workers and workers who are in absolutely precarious conditions – from the precarious, of what we have talked about long enough in this legislation – that precisely because of those conditions that you incorporate in the rules prevent you from actually accessing this Risk despite the fact that these workers and workers are radically poor; or even those people who, as they said before, are long-term unemployed and do not have access to it, or, for example, immigrants in an irregular situation. But above all, the issues that remain the same with regard to Risga and which are already collected in the report of the People's Valedor and which are now re-collected in the ESC report and which you are neglecting, which is the very long process and the very long delays we have in the handling of Risga; and not only is that, but also the non-compliances which since the Galician Union are making with the payment of the delays to which the persons who apply for Risga are entitled in the case, as you know, of Article 35.7. I mean, the norm is what it says is that at the time that that user delivers the documentation he has the right to perceive the Risk, and yet that right and those resources are not being cared for or much less supported by the Galician Board. I suppose you're going to talk about increasing risk counts. It's not about the increases in risk counts, it's about talking or seeing or examining whether Risk is being treated properly or not. And we, with the reports we have – and not because we invent the data – can say absolutely no. That's why it's about changing the conditions we have in providing it. And we would say the same thing about the law of dependence. You're not the new advisor on this issue. I told the advisor that with the new allowance and the new budgets you're going to serve a total of 10,000 more dependent people. Let's remind you again that only at 1 grade there are 15,000 people on waiting lists, only at 1 grade, so your budgets will not serve to overcome, let's say that situations of greater gravity. But what's worse: we have over 27,000 people who are waiting for the public services of the Galician Union, to which you are really going to go to the courts to gain access to your rights. We also have public reports of the State-owned dependency law that are demolitional against the Galician Union, demolifiers in which it rightly reaches the application of this right in 41% of cases, public reports that are not ours and that are on the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services; 41% of them pay no attention, says this report literally. We have the cases for different benefits – public report, I insist – that they deny the data that the Galician Union, in a propaganda way, is giving. In the case of such a provision consisting of teleassistion, we have 309; in home aid, 1,800; in cases, as we have already told them, of day centers, only 306 new squares. In the case of residential squares, you speak here of 2,000 squares. Lies, lies and lies. Public report: 46 new squares. And we also have, according to the public reports – which I can leave to Mrs. Rodríguez here, if you want, so you can see that we are not lying – because, indeed, a brutal negative differential in relation to the spending on dependence on the state average of the Union. The State is investing EUR 104.49 in this benefit and Galicia EUR 88. We'd like that, far from those propaganda measures that you're launching in the media, of course this was collected in the budgets that we're going to start discussing these days. The report, I insist, of dependence is brutal on Galicia, and of course this initiative is, in accordance with that ESC report, that you just change the system you have. And, of course, it's not just about spending more money, no, it's about managing correctly or coordinating the benefits we have in our country. And even in this ESC report, as you know, he talked extensively about the situation of child poverty. It would be appropriate that in a concrete, effective and decisive way in this country, let's say that in an undisputed way, let's say what your plans are going to be to avoid these children and children you don't want to talk about – even Mr. President of the Board, that of Caritas who caused so much controversy – because they are real and have difficulties in Galicia for three meals a day. And also with regard to the situation that the ESC is speaking of, of course, nothing more and nothing less than what this initiative is about, following this report from the Economic and Social Council, because just about actions that rescue people, do not come with the hammer that devote eight out of every ten euros of budget to social policies, because these public reports that we have deny what you, repeatedly, are pointing out every day. And I end up with one of his star measures, the star measure that arose after the tides arrived in a tsunami mode against the People's Party. For, indeed, you have now been reminded that something had to be done with the rental bonus, the rental social bonus, to which one and a half million euros are devoted. Well, as we've already told you, that lease bonus, with the requirements that you're incorporating into that standard, will not serve anything at all, because the requirements that you incorporate are not suited to people's profiles...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u225	...who today are victims of that crisis which is a real scam and which has not been caused by those people who have not lived above their possibilities. I therefore hope that, as this is a public report which is not revolutionary, which is the ESC, the People's Party, the majority group of this House, will vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u227	Thank you, President. We're talking again about the ESC report, a very important report, a very complete report, which reflects a reality that the People's Party is trying to hide the propaganda base. But I, although AGE's voicer has just said that she hopes that the People's Party will vote in favour, I think she's going to be as lucky as the motion ran and that any initiative presented by the opposition that was on the way to increasing equality and improving the quality of life of the Greek popular classes. So I'm sorry that we're probably seeing the People's Party show again today, voting against an ESC report, something that should shame the People's Party. Because among the most serious problems which the ESC is facing and which we have been dealing with in this Parliament several times, there is reason for us to oppose the social and economic reality of our country. It tells the ESC and highlights in its report the loss of weight of the population from the state, a loss of weight that leads us precisely to the fact that state policies always prejudice our country: rural depopulation, with 35.5% of the population concentrating in seven cities, and lowering the rural population to becoming a population desert; a negative demographic balance, which places Galicia's average age in 45.7 years, while in the state it is 41.8; a population greater than 65 years old that in 2014 represented 24%, compared to 13% under 16 years of age; that is to say, it reflects a country without future, because a country without youth and without children is a country without a future. Most of the population that has been lost in these years is between the ages of 15 and 39, precisely that population of future age and the age of having children, which also affects the low birth rates of our country. There was a loss of active population, which dropped by 1.3% in 2014; and of that 1.3%, 80% were Welsh and Welsh, they were not immigrants. Since the beginning of the crisis, the active population has been reduced to 150,700 people in Galicia, and the population occupied to 203,300 people. It has brought down a lot more the occupied population, even with the decline of the active population, that is, in addition to emigration, we have a problem of lack of job creation, and job destruction, important. Increasing people with long-term unemployment – we have also talked about it many times in this Parliament – points out the ESC from 14,8 % in 2008 to 49,8 % in 2014. I mean, half of the unemployed population in Galicia is long-term unemployed, and therefore without benefits. I don't know how you guys are able to vote against taking measures to reverse this situation. A precariousness that focuses primarily on women and youth. A job creation based on precariousness and eventuality, with low wages and increased unwanted part-time contracts. Increasing unemployed people over 45 years of age, whose future work is very black, not to mention that it's non-existent. 92% of contracts signed in 2014 were temporary, and most of them didn't get over the week. Of course, it's a great success in working policies. We can go on, but if I'm done with it. Increased labour accidents as a result of death and serious accidents; the precariousness of the dairy sector; the scarce useful agricultural area; the severity of forest fires; the loss of 4 points in the industrial production index; the loss of competitiveness... That is, the ESC clearly reflects what the situation in our country is, and should therefore be taken into account. I believe that this is the third or fourth time that Parliament insists that the ESC report be taken into account, and as the People's Party normally does, neither the ESC report nor the Council of Auditors' reports nor any report that the People's Party is ill for its policies of inequality and the promotion of the wealth of a few to consolidate the poverty of the great majority. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is very similar to a non-legislative proposal by the AGE, which was discussed in the Commission on the 4th of September, and to a motion by the same group that was discussed in the previous plenary session. So, as we did on those occasions, the BNG Parliamentary Group will vote in favour, and we will inevitably reiterate some of the arguments already expressed in those debates. The conclusions of the report on the economic and social situation in Galicia adopted by the ESC are totally and absolutely devastating. He speaks of the weakness in Galicia of the alleged economic recovery. In fact, in 2014 the Welsh economy was the least growing in the state as a whole, accentuated the gap between Galicia and the Spanish state, and the data we know of 2015 corroborate this trend. The ESC also alerts us to how the pay gap has been accentuated, as we point out in the debate in the State of the Nation. Thus, the ESC points out that the working class in Galicia is already the fourth worst payout of the state; a fact that should be taken into account by the Government of Greece before flying the bells for the descent of registered unemployment, because the little work that is being created is precarious work, which makes it necessary to have a job no longer exempts itself from being at risk of exclusion. Something, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which corroborates the third quarter EPA, despite the triumphalism of the German Government. The health of a country's labour market cannot be measured only in terms of registered unemployment, this data must always be set in relation to the rate of activity and occupation. According to EPA, the activity rate in Galicia is only 53.5%. In the annual comparison, the active population fell in Galicia by 14%, the fourth largest fall in the state as a whole. And while in Spain the occupancy rate is 46.9%, increasing by 1.46%, Galicia is only 44.1%, and the increase was lower than the state average. Furthermore, EPA confirms that the decline in unemployment recorded in Galicia is essentially a result of precariousness. With regard to the previous quarter, indefinite contracts rose only by 0.2%, while temporary contracts increased by 13.8%. And in the annual comparison, indefinite contracts decreased by 0.7 per cent, while temporary contracts increased by 15.7 per cent. The ESC also warns that there are still obstacles for companies and self-employed to access finance, and it is no wonder, because since 2009 Galicia has been the community where the credit concession was most backward. The per capita credit in Galicia already represents only half of the credit granted in the state. And as we have denounced, nearly EUR 14,000 million of our emigrant savings to provide credit to other territories. The ESC's memory alerts us to the impact on the energy cost industry, and that's in a surplus country on electricity production, but it cannot take advantage of that comparative advantage because of the central government's tariff policy. On the social front, the ESC is alerting the brutal increase in inequalities. He draws attention to delays and difficulties in accessing the Risk and social emergency aid, or to waiting lists for dependents to suffer from a benefit. This is why the ESC calls for, among other measures, more budgetary care in health, education, protection and social promotion; measures to eradicate child poverty or care for people with mental illness; measures also to ensure social coverage and employment reintegration of long-term unemployed persons who receive no benefits. As we have already stated in the previous debates, in many respects the memory of the ESC represents a genuine amendment to all the policies of the Government of the Union, so we agree with the proposed group on the need for a joint action plan to comply with the set of considerations contained in the memory of the ESC. For this reason, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u230	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will also support this initiative that Mrs Díaz has presented to us, because what the Economic and Social Council says is more or less what we have come to say here the spokesmen of the opposition groups in the recent debate of the state of autonomy. I mean, since Mr. Feijó ruled in Galicia, there are fewer people in employment; there are fewer people working. There are fewer people; that is, Galicia has lost population. There's more poverty; severe poverty has increased by more than 2 points, and if we take as reference the last three years, by more than 3 points. We have around 645,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And all the social measures taken by the Government Feijóo were to deepen their poverty and inequality. If we start by talking about the measures taken by the Central Government, which the Government of Feijóo has applauded in the field of job deregulation, cuts in unemployment benefits, reductions in time and unemployment benefits. If we keep talking about that income of social inclusion in Galicia it only covers 30% of people who have no income. Or if we keep talking about the Preparatory Plan, which criticized the People's Party's Government, and when they wanted to launch a draft of the Preparatory Plan, they cut more allowances. If we add to this the new catch introduced in pharmaceutical matters; or the increase in the prices of enrolments of children's schools, whose reference since the year 2002 was the minimum interprofessional wage and from the Government Feijóo is the IPREM, which is half of the minimum interprofessional wage. And if after that we add that the social services co-workers have increased since Mr Feijó's government in 40%, and that today many people who want access to dependency benefits have difficulties because they have tightened access conditions, if they have bureaucratized themselves and increased their co-owners by 40%, so that many families have to choose to take them out of day-to-day centers or residences because they are unable to deal with the co-workers. Or the hardening of the conditions of access to the requirements for Galician social inclusion income, which despite having a law that says that in 3 months you have to answer, there is a waiting list of 7 or 8 months. And if, in addition to having an unbearable waiting list, many people who previously had access to that Risga cannot do it today, and, as I said before, only access 30% of the people, because in the end the portrait we have is that almost 7 years after Mr Feijóo had started his government in Galicia, Galicia is poorer, smaller, more unequal; the conditions of people who have work are much more precarious, with a rate of temporality of 93% according to the data of the active population survey, or even the data of registered unemployment, and none of the measures that are being taken by the Government of Galicia are going to the bottom of the problem. Everything's the other way around. What is being done on the part of the Greek Government is legislating for what were before rights to guarantee that state of well-being that made when there were difficulties families had a mattress to avoid falling into poverty, today they are cuts of rights, and they substitute rights for benefits more similar to what came in times to be be benefic or charity. So what the Economic and Social Council says is no less than ratifying what we have seen here systematically denounce the spokesmen of the opposition, and in particular the spokesmen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And to deal with this situation of the poorest, the poorest, the most inequality, the more precarious work; a more meager Galicia and with serious demographic problems because we are driving out of Galicia the generations of young people and girls who could increase their birth rates, because the result is this. And if the budgets of the year 2016 – as we are studying these days – deepen even further in that situation and do not really remedy them, they do not really go to the bottom of the problem, which is to eradicate inequality, of course, Mrs Díaz, I do not have much hope that the gentlemen of the People's Group will support this initiative. Go ahead with the Socialist Parliamentary Group as long as it is. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u232	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Indeed, Mrs Díaz, this is not the first time we have discussed in this Parliament an initiative presented by your group on the ESC's economic memory on the economic and social situation in our community in 2014. I remind you that you presented an inquiry at the plenary session on 15 September, where you appealed to the advisor, then Labour and Wellness, on a number of issues. Specifically, on 23 issues related to education, health, demographics, employment, the industrial sector, the primary sector, child poverty, dependency, risk and social emergency, among other matters. After that question, they presented the corresponding motion, which was discussed on September 29 in plenary, where you asked the Galician Council to launch a social emergency programme with five very specific measures: social protection for people in a situation of unemployment, extension of risk and social inclusion aid, initiatives to eradicate child poverty, a plan for dependency and a network of centres for people with mental illness. Well, today you present another different initiative, a non-law proposal, with a statement of reasons – something that seems logical – identical to the explanatory statement, but what brings us to the attention is that you now do not ask for a specific plan with specific measures, you now leave an agreement requesting that the Board present a plan of action. In fact, we have studied the ESC report – as you have studied – which is what happens here to highlight certain issues and they do not want to highlight others. They don't want to point out that today we're better than a year ago; they don't want to point out that there are different economic indicators that put Galicia in a much better situation than in 2014. For example, I put the Funcas Report, which places Galicia among the four autonomous communities that will grow most this year, with the acceleration of some indicators that have allowed the growth forecasts to be revised upwards by 2015 in four tenths. I'm also talking about the European Network Report on Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion; according to which in 2014 the poverty risk rate in Galicia was 15.4% – the third autonomous community with the lowest poverty rate – and Galicia was the only autonomous community where average income per person grew in the years of the crisis. So when they say here that we don't take the recommendations of the ESC reports, it's not true. The Galician Council takes note of the ESC's recommendations, and we have explained this to it in the previous initiatives you have put forward. To what end? With what the Economic and Social Council calls for: that the recovery should reach the homes, that the recovery should reach the families. That is why we have already explained to you that the Union has put in place the Social Plan against Economic Inequity, which is endowed with 20 million euros. A plan in which, among its measures to combat inequality in Galicia, there are measures in the area of health, with drug subsidies or with mobility support material; there are measures to combat inequality in housing and evictions; there are measures in the area of education; there are measures in the field of electrical aid to prevent cuts in light by default. So, Mrs Díaz, for us it is clear that commitment is shown in figures, you just said it, but we haven't just discussed and analysed the budgets of the Social Policy Council for 2016, you didn't know it yet, and you were already criticizing it. So when you talk about propaganda and advertising, I would like to tell you that commitment is shown in figures; it is shown with more than 521 million euros with that strategy of social inclusion; it is demonstrated with more than 53 million euros for Risga; it is demonstrated by the recruitment of people who perceive the Risga, which is intended for 10 million euros; it is shown by duplicated budgeting the dependency; it is shown by fighting against child poverty, with the National Plan of Social Inclusion with more than 133,000 euros; it is shown with an extraordinary fund of 17 million euros to fight child poverty; and it is shown in the budgets of 2016, where citizens have to pay less taxes and will have more budgets for people, more budgets to help those who need it most. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So we are not going to vote in favour or against the ESC's report, we are going to vote against a proposal of yours that we really do not know what they propose, because what they say is that the Galician Council presents a plan to implement the ESC's recommendations. So, Mrs. Díaz, you have to understand that the situation is not the same, and I invite you to study the 2016 budgets for the most part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u235	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica from the author group of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u237	Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez, the truth is that you are capable of defending anything. In fact, we are going to study the budgets of the Galician board with great attention, but we already have them, Mrs Rodríguez, and look at one of the recommendations that the ESC makes to change, to change the productive structure of this country, for example, is to increase the percentages that you dedicate to them in this budget exercise – the 0.86% – to R & D+i. The ESC is alerting us in a paragraph – you can read it – that to change and improve the productive, labour and social structure of this country we need research; this is that there are researchers in Spain, Mrs Rodríguez. Well, see if you're able to get the absent-hand shopkeeper to modify this specific part of the budgets of the Galician board. But look, Mrs. Rodríguez, they have a problem, and the problem is this graph of the Ministry of Health Report on what you're dedicated to dependency and what the state is about; this is the problem they have. Let's stop telling us here a thousand times more that will increase the requirements or economic resources of dependency or risk, because, as much as they increase it, we have enough data. I'd like you to tell me, do you agree to provisionally adjudicate Risk, yes or no, Mrs. Rodríguez? Do you agree to remove bureaucratic barriers at Risk? Yes or no? What are you going to do with the addicts waiting for, Mrs. Rodríguez? Do you deny that data from the Ministry of Health? There were 46 squares last year, Mrs. Rodríguez, these are the actual data, said the Ministry of Health did not say it to the Alternative Left Galicia: 46 squares, 309 in day centers, Mrs. Rodríguez. You guys talk about 2,000 that don't show up anywhere. And look, Mrs. Rodríguez, they have a story problem. I'm going to read you some of the budgets this year of Galician Union. Hurry up, or there is economic recovery – which is a lie – and yet you left us without answering why Galicia is growing to 1.8 while the Spanish state is doing it to 3,8. He couldn't answer us. He can't tell us why we're going much worse at unemployment than the state measures, Mrs. Rodríguez. So you may be turning around a thousand times what you want, which is, of course, denying with real data the reality of our country. And look at what the councilman of Fairy says in the social aspect: "There is a persistent economic crisis situation that raises the percentage of the population of Galicia with a lack of economic resources." Mrs. Rodríguez, hurry up. Either the recovery is reaching the homes of our country, or, as this memory says – which I am not inventing – in the social part of this year, of course the crisis persists, Mrs. Rodríguez. And if you persist, you, of course, ought to vote ethically and press your button on this initiative. I'm leaving you, Mrs. Rodríguez, because you can take some of the parts that CES himself recommends, some of the parts. Perhaps interlocuting in part of economic growth is complex. But on the risk side and on the dependency part, we're sure it's possible if you want it. And since you're going to vote no, we'll take care of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u239	...to tell the Galician society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u241	...that you are against them. And we're also going to introduce this initiative in an interpellation mode so that the current advisor – this one of Ferrol's water scams –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u242	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u243	...the current advisor to Ferrol's water scam, responds to this initiative again. Yes, Mr. Tellado, the Ferrol water scam. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u245	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the start of a awareness campaign against gender-based violence directed to the rural environment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u247	The following amendments were tabled to this non-legislation proposal: one from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u248	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Acuña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u249	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to talk again about the violence, the victims of machismo, also the victims of institutional machismo: those women of Noia and this brave woman who dares to be Baltarism Oressa; these 4 women killed in Spain in the last four days and those 40 in the year; of the 8 Gales dead, 7 here, killed in Galicia, and of them, two minors; and to invite all of you and all of you to accompany us to Madrid on 7 November, there, in Madrid, to cry out and all together that is enough! They accompany us to say no, loud and clear, to all people, and, of course, to all the governments that look to the other side while they kill us. On October 15th, the International Rural Women's Day was celebrated one more year. And another year has been denounced the double invisibility that these women suffer: invisible for being women and invisible for being rural. Invisible despite being more than 50% of the world's population. Invisible though in Spain 6 million women, with their families, live in rural areas. And also invisible to rural areas, which in Galicia accounts for 83% of our territory. Invisible rural women at work, as evidenced by the fact that, out of every 10 women working more than 45 hours a week on a farm, only 3 lords, they contribute to social security. Or, in other words, of every 10 women who work, 7 don't count, 7 don't exist, and tomorrow they won't be entitled to a pension. And that despite the Act 35/2011, of shared ownership of agricultural holdings, which, of course, the People's Party is not potentiating, as evidenced by the fact that in Galicia only 13 women every year request that shared ownership. But if rural women are not visible to work, neither are they the victims of gender-based violence; the bad thing, ladies, is that, whether visible or not, these women are killed as well. Some people think that machismo is especially present in that environment, because it's a more conservative medium or because it's more exposed to more natural customs and traditions. I'm not in a position to secure it, but, of course, the way of living in our rural area may be influencing negatively on gender-based violence. In rural people live much closer, connected familiarly, while more isolated, which undoubtedly favors the concealment of that violence. Besides, the rural woman is generally less independent and is much more controlled and influenced by the environment, whether this friend or hostile. In the Committee on Gender Violence, we had the opportunity to hear, among other things, the testimony of Mrs. Rosa Arcos, the representative of Fademur, who with great accuracy and clarity informed us of the peculiarities of gender violence in that environment, its shortcomings and the most primal needs. According to Mrs. Arcos – and I read textually –: "In rural areas there may be no more conditions for gender-based violence, but what seems to be clear is that there are different conditions. And unfortunately these differences, ladies and gentlemen, are not taken into account in the measures to combat it, and that's why rural women and men don't even identify themselves with violence prevention campaigns, since they are not recognized in them. Besides, if it's difficult for an urban woman to take the step of denouncing, for a rural woman it's almost impossible. She lives surrounded by the family of the batterer, and in addition to reporting, she has to travel far away, when in rural women hardly move alone. On the other hand, resources against gender-based violence are also much more scarce in this environment and are much farther away. By setting an example, ladies and gentlemen, there's no CISG available throughout the Courel area. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, how difficult and complicated it can be for a woman, for example, of the Nogals or Folgoso to get to the CIM of Lugo to ask for advice, to ask for help? Not to be forgotten that in those resources that are closest to you, they don't always find the training and sensitivity needed to address these issues. It is clear that the answer to a complaint will not be the same for a woman who lives next to the Gender Violence Court than for a woman who lives and approaches any means, headquarters of the Civil Guard or any other, on the Ourense or Lugo mountain. Even though, ladies and gentlemen - and this I want to emphasize - there will always be someone who questions his witness. Besides, the rural woman has another very serious problem, too, because once she makes the complaint, where are you going, gentlemen? Where are you going? The uprooting in these cases is total, because with the complaint the family is lost, the house is lost, like all of them, but it is also that the rural woman loses the job, the company is lost, the village is lost, the people are lost and the whole life is lost. But not everything is bad in this environment, because in rural areas there are also other resources that could be used for this struggle. There's an associative tissue of its own, so a battered woman in the Courel can find more easily help in an office, for example, an agricultural union or an association of rural women than in the headquarters of the Civil Guard or the CIM of Lugo. But for that, ladies and gentlemen, in that association, in that union office, they have to have the resources and the information appropriate to give you an answer. On the other hand, it is clear that we must improve the statistical monitoring of gender-based violence in that area as well. If you mention the victim's location when the woman is murdered, but usually you don't take into account the origin, the rural environment or the urban environment, when you talk about complaints. For all this, we socialists today present this non-law proposition, in which we request three things. Three things we consider can help make the victims visible and singularize gender-based violence in rural areas. Things that have, by the way, been part of the study committee and that we believe there is no need to wait for the elaboration of the dictatorship, because these are basic things, essential things, in order to be able to know and quantify the problem of violence in the Italian countryside. One of the things requested is this last thing, that in the elaboration of statistics on violence, take into account whether the facts occur in rural or urban areas, but in both deaths and complaints. A second thing that we ask is that all the resources that count on this medium be taken advantage of, coordinating them, so that we can use them against the greatest problem our society has: gender violence. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for our own awareness campaigns against gender-based violence, directed to the rural environment, so that all the women and men living there may feel identified in them. We hope to have the support of all the groups in response to such much-needed requests. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u251	Thank you, President. I'm going to describe a situation for you. Man murdering woman. Some, or many, say they killed a woman. We all regret each other very much. We keep a minute of silence, like this morning, one more day passes, and no one ever remembers the murder of that woman. I think they're all alone. Then comes the debate of the nation's state, the debate of budgets or any other important debate, and the media of Justice are shortened; the games devoted to prevention are cut off and attacked by the educational system, the educational model; the laws that expel women from the labour market are passed; laws that return women to the care of dependents, children, children and older people. Day after day, murder woman. Some media say they killed her. We all regret it a lot, we keep a minute of silence and so on. We live on marmot day as far as gender violence. It is spoken of transversality without applying it to any council; social rights, public services, and the means by which women have to abandon the situation of violence; it reversively reaffirms public education, and then wonders why gender violence is perpetuated. Since the beginning of the Equality Commission, which studies precisely the situation of gender-based violence in our country – as has already been said here – there have been multiple appearances denouncing non-compliance with gender-based violence laws, lack of means, discoordination, lack of training. Extreme, real situations have been reported by women who have suffered gender-based violence, and not a single measure has been taken by the German Government. On the contrary, since the Commission started, they voted against co-education; they voted against taking account of the term "redundancy" and what this implies; they voted against taking concrete action, in case of the debate of the state of the nation; they voted against investigating the murder of a woman in the hospital of Ourense, etc. But then they complain a lot and put their hands on their heads. Of course, we're not going to end gender violence in a legislature in two or three, but the government's obligation is to fight against it with social, political and economic measures. The rural environment is – as we have said here and as we are seeing in the Equality Commission – the biggest forgotten, where it is precisely affecting the lack of public resources and services. Where it affects, for example – it has been mentioned – the lack of public transport or the difficulty that some women may have to get to a point where they can report the aggressor, or even the difficulty of being able to move and be able to leave the aggressor's home. Where there's no such help to the house, which is now no longer there, but which never even arrived before. Where many women can not even afford to complain because – as has already been said – their testimony is often questioned by the person – the State Security Forces and Corps or the Civil Guard – who will attend it, or because the social situation, in which all the neighbors and neighbors know each other, does not allow the woman who has no means to report because later she will not have to live and will also create an added problem. What access do women living in rural justice have to have to access if in many courts they are accumulating the files, if the People's Party again, in the debate of the nation's state, only two weeks ago, voted against a resolution that called for justice to be able to resolve the files and create trials of gender violence? What training do judicial officers have? What training do the State Security Forces and Corps have? What training do professionals and health professionals have to attend to and detect possible cases of gender-based violence? In gender-based violence there are countless steps that could be taken to prevent it and to fight against it. Since this initiative is speaking in particular – we will certainly support a awareness campaign against gender-based violence in rural areas, we are proposing a two-point amendment, which adds precisely the request that the Board organize training for professionals and public professionals who can meet potential victims; compulsory training, because the issue of equality cannot be optional; that, of course, it has to be calculated as continuing training so that it does not go against the labour rights of the public; and that the measures to know whether they have real usefulness, because this is not done, there is a report without evaluation. Gender violence – already remarried – is being fought with real, economic, social and political measures, and not with minutes of silence and with housed lacini and then practicing or modifying and legislating against women's rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Today is another day of mourning in Galicia for the death of a Galician, but every day must be just as important in the struggle to avoid gender violence; a struggle with which we cannot go down the guard and for which we must continue to work every day in all areas. From the Government and from the parliamentary groups without exception, those that we support the Government and also those that are in the opposition; from the councils, from education, from health, from justice, from the State Corps and Security Forces, because only from the unit can we face this scourge. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I'm always in favour of reaching agreements in the field of equality and not using the victims as a political daring weapon. We must send a message to clear society; that the violent interpret that there are no fissures in the fight against gender violence; that they know that they will not find lust anywhere; that each proposal is meant to add up and fight against them and not to politically wear out the adversary. Today we are debating an initiative, a battery of initiatives, to act in the field of gender-based violence in rural areas. As you well know, this is an area that has been excluded from organic law 1/2004, of gender violence, but not from our comprehensive Law on Gender Violence of the Year 2007, both in Article 4 and in Article 6, which specifically includes actions in the field of rural women, and in that sense to Junta de Galicia you know perfectly that you comply with these two articles, both with awareness-raising campaigns that take you to all the Greek municipalities, with an budget for 2016 of 200,000 euros, and also for social initiative entities, with an budget of EUR 1,777,500. In relation to point 2 of the non-law proposal, you ask that data and statistics analyzing cases of gender-based violence be accounted for in the rural environment. And Mrs Acuña said that these figures were not given in rural areas or that the figures were higher than urban ones. As you well know, Mrs. Acuña, in the annual memories of women's information centres, the statistics are done by consultations in rural and urban areas. But we agree that this statistic is even more visible, so we also agree with this point. As for the effort of the Galician Union to provide resources and services for the prevention, care and treatment of victims, we also have to recognize the effort that the Union is making in the worst economic context, where, far from reducing the budget for the equality and treatment of gender violence, it has increased. For example, in the grants for the call for the promotion of equality this year, there was an increase of EUR 1,219,000. I could tell you more matches, but I don't have time. But for example, in the concrete programme of comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence, it also increased by 72,000 euros, 26% more than in 2014. In point 3 on consultative and participatory bodies, they propose that resources be organized and coordinated. As you know, Mrs. Acuña, the Galego das Mulleres Council was set up in 2012. So we think it's set up there as the women's participation organ. And here specifically, in addition to the plenary, there are three committees, and one of them is the Rural Women's Commission, which has just met on January 22, 2015. In this sense, we have tabled an amendment, so that since the Galician Council of Women it is proposed to prepare a study on the incidence of gender-based violence in rural municipalities. We believe it is important to have a diagnosis so that we can propose concrete actions that go directly to the problem. Not what we imagine here, but that there is a concrete diagnosis, done by the organ that is enabled for the effect. You're talking about training activities. Well, yesterday even a training activity was started because they know tomorrow that the victim's Statute comes into force. It is for the equality offices that operate in the seven cities where there is a trial of gender violence, both the Directorate-General of Justice and the General Secretariat of Equality. And tomorrow they will also start on EGAP days in the field of the formation of the State Security Corps and Forces, in the field of justice and in the field of education. So I think in that sense he's working, but we think he's well trained. Even I would be prepared to present an initiative so that from the Bureau, from the Presidency of Parliament, if we are Members who are part of the House. Mrs. Acuña, what you just said here is very serious. You've just made demonstrations that discourage the complaint of rural women. You just said here that nothing happens because they report, and that's very serious, Mrs. Acuña. Our words from this forum have a lot of media impact, and that's the worst campaign that can be done so that victims of gender-based violence in rural areas don't report. Check out today's Session Journal, check out what you said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u255	...because I think it's essential not to say things like those you just said here. And Mrs. Solla, I don't agree to introduce the word feminicide because we don't live in Ciudad Juárez, because fortunately six women die every day in Galicia, and besides... yes, yes, killed. And I don't agree, because besides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u257	...we have the most advanced legislation in the world, and the People's Party is not willing to take a step back when it comes to lawmaking in defense of women victims of gender-based violence. And I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Today we propose a pact of unity for all political forces that we are part of this House to fight against gender violence. We're going to vote in favour of each and every one of the proposals here, but this can't be for one day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u259	I think all the proposals that are made here have to be added and not used as a weapon to cast the opponent's policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u261	Thank you, President. There's a lot more violence in rural areas than in cities. In the countryside, women always assumed man's superiority. That attitude is the one that has encouraged them to be often abused in villages and villages. In this context, rural society is very present a mandate of gender ally of violence against women since the night of the times: the vision of the family as supremely to preserve. According to this approach, rural women and their needs appear subordinated to a higher interest, that of the family unit and its main components, among them the husband; which coincides, which is no other than the batterer. In a close environment, in which everyone is known, social violence about fulfilling roles, family expectations and loving relationships are very close. The rural environment is a primary social control area, where everyone knows what's going on in the neighborhood. In this environment, it may occur – and it happens – that one gets to blame the victim himself for the situation of violence in which he lives. There has been an illustrative event in this Parliament recently. In one of the equality committees, women from a rural women's association who came to say, "We women are very bad. There's every one! Let's provoke the husband!" Let a woman argue like a batterer, give us an idea of how the topic is, and that some associations – certainly this one I mean, previously received help from the Union – do not meet the fundamental objective of informing and educating rural women on equal terms to fight against the masquerade of terrorism. If the gender-based violence of itself is a conviction, it is suffered in a people that increases torture. In the rural context, there is greater pressure on women to conceal the abuse they live in. By being a more closed society, paradoxically, the close neighbourly relationships, far from helping, increase the stress of the victim, the shame and even the suffering of loneliness and self-defense, which on the contrary does not happen to the aggressor. And it's just that, ladies and gentlemen, the main associations of rural women are folklore, fiestas, handicrafts, popular dances, walks and excursions... they have to promote that these associations are specific and constituted by women, but also by professionals, but that they abound in the first ones. Women find many obstacles to confronting male violence in rural areas: less information, more pressure. Is it funny, Mr. Tellado, the macho violence? Yes, remind me when the PP applauded when they entered the Iraq War. Thank you for these things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u262	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u263	It's a laughing matter for you. We're talking about murder, about feminicide, and you laugh. Please! Please! That tells me who you are. Mr. Tellado, delete it. Yes, I do. [[Applause]] May I continue, Mr. President? Thank you, Mr. President. There is less information....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u264	Quiet, please. Let Mrs Iglesias finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u265	...more pressure, control and fear in denouncing and worse access to available resources. In addition, these resources, now so slashed by austerity policies – never better said in this case – are clearly insufficient. Access to these resources is very difficult, if not impossible, when they are located in cities. All of this is to add a kind of gender-based violence that the aggressors use against the victims and which remains unpunished because it's not related to the masculine violence. I'm talking about economic violence in the field against women, being the man who controls economic resources. They include specific policies and programmes for rural development that consider gender equality as one of their main objectives. Policies and Strategies From Institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u267	...which include the perspective of gender in rural areas, with the aim of rural women empowering themselves and fighting for the equality of their rights: social, labour, family and cultural rights. This Member and the Joint Group support the initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u268	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u269	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. After the last few hours, of the last few days, I don't know, Mrs. Paula Prado, how she is able to climb this rostrum and use as an argument that feminicide is a word for Ciudad Juárez. I just didn't understand that argument. But we will have time to debate, Mrs. Paula Prado, because if you really think that violence is such an important problem, it will not be a problem for us to agree on what term we have to introduce to change, to change, the attitudes of people, to change the attitudes of all institutions as well, and to change the laws. I believe that there we will continue this debate, that we will give it to this House, that we will give it to the streets and that we will give it where it is needed, because we are actually seeing how the situation does not improve. And we have this debate without paternalism, without saying that women or others suffer more gender-based violence, because anyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u270	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u271	Yes, yes, no paternalism. No, no, if rural women, if women are women, if any woman in any economic situation of this country or of this planet is currently suffering the violence of gender because it is the first cause of the deaths of women between the ages of 18 and 45 on planet Earth. That's the reality! That's the reality! And don't raise your head, because the problem with us is that when we're going to discuss gender-based violence, when we're going to talk about male violence, we start asking for pacts. But how is it possible for a pact if we do not agree on what equality means? Here's the biggest problem we have right now: we have different views on this situation, and that makes it difficult for us to have a frank and sincere dialogue about that we suffer from Machism, we reproduce these macho attitudes, and therefore, as we're reproducing them from school to the media, that none of us will be listening to, but we've been listening to women dying this past week and all of this month. No, no, these ladies didn't die, they didn't give a heart attack, they didn't have a stroke, they killed them! They were killed! And while in other crimes he clearly commits murder, here we just hide the word. Women are murdered, and they are killed every day. So we're going to support this initiative. We actually agree with the president of Fademur that there is a need to carry out specific campaigns, just as it already collects the very Greek law that is not being developed. But we also agreed with her – and I remain with the headline – that there is no more gender-based violence in rural areas, but it is a different violence. I also believe that we ourselves should not move into stereotypes; neither urban women nor rural women, nor young women, nor older women, all women suffer gender violence. It is true that the characteristics of the situation living will make it more or less difficult to access resources, access to aid, access to information, indeed. The women who live in rural areas – who live because I don't know what it's like to be rural women or urban women – will be living in rural areas or living in urban areas, because it's not a category in itself – have greater difficulty because they have displacement problems. The problems of not accessing the services we know them, and I think we can all agree there. I hope that this initiative will be approved unanimously. Mrs. Paula Prado, we, this parliamentary group – and you know it – always support the motions for resolutions on violence. You're always waiting for them to approve or debate the initiatives that we bring about with regard to violence. We will continue to support all initiatives, for one reason: everything we have done has nothing to prevent us from moving forward. You said here that we have very advanced legislation in the Spanish state, and specifically in Galicia. Well, it'll be a pride, and you'll have to think about where you're weak. I also want – and allow me to do so – to make a little reflection, because here we have talked about a lot of things about masculine violence. I know it's difficult and today it's a complicated day in that respect, but I want to remind you that also in the Welsh law, sexual harassment is collected as a masculine violence, and that we all have to be absolutely firm in rejecting any form of machismo and violence against women. I'm telling you that, with the greatest respect and the greatest education, but no one, no one, can be an accomplice. I'm sick of hearing we use the victims. I believe, Mrs. Paula Prado, that we must respect the attitudes of the political groups and the initiatives that bring the debate to this House. And if we bring the debate, for example, feminicide is because we are absolutely convinced that it is necessary to change the framework where we are moving and also changing the status of the victim. And even if he had now entered the status of a victim of crime in vigil, he must be changed, because the social aspects are not collected. We'll have time for debate, and it's not in this legislation, but we'll surely find ourselves changing the framework of initiatives and introducing the category of feminicide, because in the street we're not going to put cancels, and we're always going very behind us. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u273	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the groups for their support and say that we are going to accept the amendment tabled by the AGE, because it deepens one of the eves we have on the issue of gender violence, which is the lack of training – of course, even though some of the honourable Members are upset to listen to it, much more obvious in rural areas. In addition, we believe that it is very well suggested that the measures being carried out should be validated for power, so they are changing as we see how they behave or what results will be obtained. As for the speech of the honourable Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, I will point out some of the delays he made in his speech. First of all, Madam, we are not talking about dead women: we are talking about murdered women. State law does not exclude for nothing the rural environment, besides, you yourself have qualified it as one of the best laws in the world; I remind you that it was of the Zapatero era, and I remind you that we also have a wonderful, even more modern, more... – if I may... – more modern than the state law, because it was later done, that is the autonomous law, made at the time of the Bipartite. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And this honourable Member said nothing that when they report, I don't know what... what I said is that when a rural woman denounces, it's much harder because she loses the house, the family, the company and the job – because it's her middle – the village and all the people, Madam. Look, I think the idea that the president gives us training for the ladies is great, but I would like to invite the President of the House of Ourense to these classes, who I think is very much lacking. [[Applause]] As far as voting is concerned, Madam, it is a pity that you – so great – voted against the initiative taken to the Committee on Fisheries and that it leaves out women who are mascarating women who are victims of macho violence. Shame on you! What they voted on is a shame at the speech of the honourable Member who took part in the debate! Shame on you! [[Applause]] Look, as far as your amendment is concerned, I'm going to tell you that I'm not going to accept it, Madam, and I'm going to explain why. Don't worry, I'll explain why. [[Murmurs.]] You say it's through the Women's Council where a study is proposed on the incidence of violence in rural municipalities. So look, Madam, the Galician Women's Council has been meeting for almost a year now; it's more, I think it's met twice, when it was set up and a year ago. Yeah, it'll be fake, okay... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u274	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u275	In that council there has already been a specific commission to work on rural work, the problem is that it's not working because it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u276	Finish. End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u277	This committee has been provided with numerous documentation, suggestions and even a very specific task, Madam: the development of a resource map against violence in the Italian countryside. All those charges we're still waiting for. Do you know why, Madam? Because this government makes advice to its image and likeness, and then it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u278	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u279	We hope to have that support, but that the support is not just to vote in favour, but then to practice what is requested in this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the creation of a parliamentary study commission for the Italian countryside
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u281	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr Sánchez has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u282	Good afternoon. I think they haven't made literary appointments yet in this plenary session, it must be because Mr. Abel Losada hasn't spoken yet, which is what he used to do, but I'm probably going to inaugurate them: I'm going to quote William Shakespeare and I'm going to say "something smells bad, something smells bad in the House of Ourense." We don't know if the father's ghost appears to the child or if, in this case, the child's ghost appears to the father, but what we see is a face to do politics that we want to banish this country. I don't get into certain issues, but what proves is the use by the People's Party in Ourense of institutions for their own benefit, the creation of dependency relationships...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u283	On the issue, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u284	...the chain of favors. This is an important question, Mr. Santalices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u285	No, no, but on the question: the question is rural Greek.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u286	Something smells bad in the House of Ourense, something smells bad. [[Applause]] We see that the People's Party is not prepared to take action on this issue, which is extremely, very serious, if it continues, in the middle of 2015, to use institutions to promise jobs, to discriminate against people depending on whether you are a friend or not of Mr Baltar, or whether you have to emigrate... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u287	On the issue, Mr. Sanchez, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u288	...boys and girls from Ourense because they're not friends of Mr. Baltar or they don't swear loyalty and loyalty to him. It's a real shame. This gentleman can no longer remain in the People's Party, no more as President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u289	Mr. Sánchez, you're going to force me to take your word off, but there are already two calls to the issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u290	No, I don't force him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u291	Well, to the point, you go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u292	To the point. Good. Well, the question, Mr. President, if I may speak...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u293	Yes, you can talk, not at all, but to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u294	Well, I understand that this subject can make you nervous. I'm going to the point. The problem of fires, depopulation, aging, loss of agricultural population, or the serious crisis in the dairy sector that we are still living in, lead us to wonder that the policies that have been carried out by successive governments in the country of Greece are appropriate for the balanced development of this country, and it is not a catastrophic speech; the data of abandonment, aging, even masculinization – as was said earlier – is true that there is even a problem in many areas of rural Galician masculinization, because women are often the first to leave rural because they are condemned, on many occasions, to have many worse conditions in the home than men and with very poor public services. The abandonment is a fact in a country that in the last five years has lost 48,000 inhabitants, many of them – most of them – since cities have increased their population, they have been in rural areas: Lugo's districts have lost 3.1% and Ourense's districts have lost 3.8% of their population in the last four years – almost 1% of their population –. The average age of rural Galician is one of the highest in the state, only surpassed by Castile and León. It's not catastrophic, we think it's a reality. And despite the fact that the trend in the developing world is to transfer rural inhabitants to cities, Galicia causes serious consequences, such as non-management and neglect of resources – such as land –, the occurrence of fire problems – to a greater extent than in other countries – or the loss of heritage due to the destruction of villages and other buildings. The crisis in the milk sector itself in which we live today must lead us to rethink the agricultural model we want, whether we want Galicia to continue to feed the abandonment or we need policies that stop it. The deepening of liberation in the sector will lead to the concentration of production and the disappearance of more farms, thus having an effect on a Greek rural environment that depends to a large extent on the economy generated by milk. The ageing of the agricultural population is one of the issues that, for that reason alone, would deserve extraordinary measures from a government that wants to reverse the situation, where only 4.68 % of landowners are under 40 years old, and 59.6 % of landowners are 60 years old or older. Only that data should make the Government react! unless the People's Party already considers that there is no future in rural areas and that this is normal and that there is nothing to do to reverse it. The forest model based on species of rapid growth, low added value, is not a model that creates wealth or employment; it's not, in addition, a multifunctional vision of the mountain and the diversification of economic activity. The fires are consuming almost one out of four euros in the budget of the Rural Council, and we don't abduct a change in the trend, in the tendency to use more funds for productive projects, not for the extinction of fires. The question of land: this country cannot afford the luxury of having a million hectares abandoned, the mobilization of that land should be a goal that has not reached until now the People's Party, despite the many years of government it has taken. The abandonment, in addition, brings more abandonment. It was before a kind of public service, you have to change diametrically the policy of public services in rural areas, you can't make purely economical calculations and in the short term, you have to put services in rural areas to attract people, to fix people, so that they don't go to people, and that someday those services can even be profitable. You have to do the opposite of what you're doing. You can't delete a school in rural because there are few children, because as soon as there are fewer children, you have to do otherwise: you can't remove dining rooms, post offices, bank offices, etc. We need to reconsider the current policies of services allocations; therefore, research counselling, the dismantling they are suffering, as we see in Mabegondo's agricultural research centre, goes against the development of new sectors that have job creation potential and which in this country are neglecting and which could be giving opportunities to trained people and with few job prospects in cities, and which could have a way of life in rural areas. We believe that a reflective process must therefore be opened to change this situation; that reflective process, we say on our initiative, that should have taken place in the process of developing the rural development programme, which is the plan that will tell where we are going to invest the money in rural from 2014 to 2020. But this reflective and participated process did not take place because the People's Party preferred opacity and lack of transparency, and did a bureaucratic exercise of continuity, when what the times required was an exercise of participation by the whole society and, above all, giving voice to the rural itself. That's not done because the only thing you've been looking for is the sharing of money between advisors to match accounts, not to give a new boost to rural life. That is why we propose in this proposal that a study committee for rural Galicia should be set up aimed at analysing the current situation, analysing the policies that are being implemented – something that is not done in the rural development programme, there is no analysis of how certain policies and results have been implemented to see whether these policies are followed, or whether they have to be changed – the study of specific sectors – as I said – with potential to develop, above all, employment; proposals for the future and that we believe that we should at least count on the attendance of representatives of local agricultural organizations, eco-logists, consumers of political organizations, of technicians in land management, rural development, agronoms, forestry, etc., and all those that political forces can propose and can provide something. We say, since the beginning of this legislation, that we are losing an opportunity in this country, an opportunity to create wealth, create jobs, and that young people can apply their knowledge in the countryside, and we believe that they are losing themselves because of the lack of will and the lack of ideas of the People's Party, which continues with inherited inertia, which seems to have no strength or will to change. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u295	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u296	Thank you, President. If there is an area of our society and our economy that has always been revealed as a safe value, that's our rural one. The land, the livestock and the forest have fully valued the trust of our people to see a way out of the future in these difficult times that it is up to us to live at this hour. This is not due to a transnoited romanticism – which also – but simply perceives if one keeps his feet on the earth: in this sense of keeping the feet of the earth, Galicia has the soul in the countryside, since most of our territory – around 84% of the surface – has that condition. The agricultural sector directly employs around 5% of the active population and is acting as a mattress in times of crisis; agricultural activity generates more than 3% of the German GDP and hides potentials capable of offering new opportunities in this country: healthy and quality food, environmental protection, agricultural and agri-food processing industry and tourism and social services. For all this, by being part of our socio-economic center, and by the strategic nature of primary production, we must look at rural as a fundamental link to our life; as it is: a living part of Galicia. That is why we must combine efforts and proposals to work on the momentum of the changes needed to make rural people into a destination and remove the obstacles that they present, because it is true that structural elements persist that disrupt their development: the ageing of the population, the deficiencies in the vertebration of the productive sectors, the insufficiency in territorial management and the low participation of primary production in marketing. The years to come will mark the future of our rural life. In times of crisis it is necessary to focus on the shortage of resources in key investments capable of boosting secondary initiatives and reversing benefits to Galician society as a whole – that is, we must keep a rural world alive. It is therefore essential to pursue the struggle for the momentum and modernization of the countryside, which is of great importance in a situation of socio-economic, social change, which can find an alternative of life in rural areas. It is therefore necessary to be empowered, both productively and socially, because the possibilities of becoming a motor generator of wealth and employment are many. That is why it is necessary to take measures to equate the quality of life in the field with that of urban borders and, in the same way, to make rural areas more profitable by deepening economic diversification, seeking alternatives that, together with the primary sector, consolidate a framework that enables the fixing of the population in our territory. To bet on taking advantage of all the potential that our rural community has to make it a true reference to employment and economic regeneration. To do this, measures must be combined in all fields and from various points of origin and destination, from the policy to the financial, through training or economic promotion through markets for Greek products. The main strategic lines in rural areas should be aimed at promoting measures aimed at three key areas of work: agriculture-gander, forestry and rural development. No work to be developed can succeed if we try to carry it out alone, never an effort was as vain as one who does from one source or destination, from one point of view. We need a lot of wills and approaches to have the exact perspective of our dimension and what we want to achieve so that rural life will relive. This is why initiatives such as this presented by the Gaga de Left alternative are an example of this cross-sectional and multidisciplinary nature of action that needs to be applied in rural areas. I suppose the leaders of the People's Party will vote that if this GNP is in that effort we are all necessary and in that future of Galicia, so that our land will have a living countryside. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u297	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u298	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President. Of course, I think there are few issues in which debates occur with less paternalism than when we talk about rural life and when we certainly talk about women, women's problems and, above all, about violence against women. I have been attending debates in this Parliament for many years starting from the premise that rural people have an unstoppable demographic, social and economic downturn and that it is essential that different administrations try to stop or at least minimize this downturn. And I think the more we talk about the evil that is the rural environment, the evils that are the living conditions, the dramatic situation in our productive sectors – in this case the dairy sector, but also in the meat sector, we could also talk about the problems in the wine sector, in the garden sector and many other productive sectors – the impact of the disappearance of public services in rural areas in people's lives; for, as I say, the more we talk about this, it seems that the Government of the United States has less political intention to put a stop to these policies. Therefore, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we believe that today's proposal by the Galga de Left Alternative – to set up in this Parliament a study committee to assess the situation of the rural environment and to put on the table measures to address that situation – can be a good initiative to see if, in the case of the rural environment problem, we are starting to move from rhetoric to events, we are starting to move on permanently, from what green was my valley!, to start doing something so that in rural areas we can actually continue to have productive activity. It was mentioned here in the Rural Development Plan, which represents an opportunity of approximately 1,300 million euros to invest since 2014-2020 to try to change these trends. A rural development plan that the People's Party has kidnapped and that even in that part – around 7% – it is up to it to run the territorial base through the rural development groups, are making decisions that go against, precisely, social participation and the establishment of rural development policies from below to above because it doesn't even count on the municipalities and social fabric to define which will be the new framework of the Leader Plan for 2014-2020. We are in the hypocrisy that Members of the People's Party come to this forum to denounce the bad situation – for example in the previous initiative – of services to women in rural areas, at the same time that public services are dismantled every day. We are seeing, every day, classes or schools disappear in rural areas; or, directly, we are seeing aggressions that constitute a real insult to people living in villages such as, for example, the last idea of the Health Council to look after people living in rural areas – patients – in trucks instead of in health centres. And so we see, for example, how in Gudina County a perfect health center, which worked perfectly, has almost been closed for a month, because the Galician Board has had the occurrence that people care better in a truck than in a health center we already had – in a truck where only four people are in, I don't know if the Counsellor or a Member of the PP, within a month, will lend them much to be waiting to be cared for in Gudina, half an hour outside, because in the truck, actually, only four people are in the truck. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we believe that, both from a productive point of view, from the point of view of services, from the point of view of politics, it is necessary to implement to end forest fires, a study commission in which all these problems we have in rural areas must be brought to light. In which we all open our ears to hear what society lives in rural areas has to tell us, people who live and work and want to continue working in rural areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u299	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u300	...people who know about rural development, to see if we're finally able to start moving from words to facts and we're no longer dealing with the problem of the rural environment with that paternalism that we used to use from this rostrum as if the people who live in villages were second citizens. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u302	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, what this proposal proposes – as has already been said here – is the creation of that study commission for the rural Greek and – as it is also said here – it seems to be something we should all agree on, in addition. And it is even something that socially complains, and the problems, when they systematically arise those problems that have been called – forest fires, land mobility, the difficulties of life in rural life – almost everyone agrees or everyone agrees. Moreover, we always see that illustrious informants and illustrious people who are dedicated to writing in newspapers – marking the editorial line of certain newspapers – are systematically demanding that this be removed out of political debate. It's true that always, when they say you have to get it out of the debate of politics, it's when you rule the PP; but you claim it, with which I imagine that all those who write those articles of opinion, tomorrow will write for explanations to the People's Party that why you don't approve this investigation commission, or why you don't agree with it, or why you don't do it; because, if you were so sued and it was something that we should agree with, I imagine you will ask for explanations. And, therefore, of course, we believe it is important to create this commission, but to address this creation of that commission I think there must be two basic premises. One: that it is considered that rural is necessary and important for this country, that is to say, in the conception that each political group has – legitimate – of this country gives importance to the higher rural even to the quantitative terms it may have; and therefore there must be this express recognition, which the People's Party has not done until now – legitimately, because it can have another conception of the country, as it does, where it wants all the population of this country living in the range of the AP-9 and the rest of the territory we will already manage it through companies, if they can be better deprived, and if they can be private and friends of the People's Party or of high offices because even much better, and that conception is legitimate by the People's Party, what is not legitimate is not recognized." And the second premise has to be also clear, which is that, if the People's Party goes to that commission, it has to go at least with enough openness to completely amend all the policy that has been taken in recent years, and this is not because we say it, it's not because the opposition says it, it's simply because the data so find out that they're not actually being useful policies, or at least they're not giving the results they should give. And another of the things that we should also have clear – speaking of obviousness, which I suppose then, when they translate into reality, they are no longer so obvious – is whether we affirm or if we want that commission to come to some political conclusions to be developed. That is, if the conclusion of that commission, or the conclusion – as it seems to be or is by this Government – is that this will be arranged or could be arranged with an advertising campaign for insertion into the newspapers of the slogan of "return to rural", or "return to rural", or "you have to live in rural", or "what a wonderful thing it is to live in rural!""So, of course, we would be fixing that of the previous opinionaries, which goes directly proportional to the institutional advertising inserted in their newspaper, but we would not be acting on the real factors that could influence that. Because, even if they seem obvious, what we would have to answer is that question why people leave rural and what we can think of so that it doesn't. And, I repeat, if we're thinking about an advertising campaign, we're actually going to be wrong. For people to live in rural areas, you first have to live and, therefore, you have to have an occupation. So, beyond you have to bring people back to the countryside or other people from outside, the first thing you have to do is to prevent those who are marching... every day they go; that is, in this country we have had the contradiction to see all ads in the press saying that we have to go back to the countryside while we're closing the farms and we're throwing those who are there because they can't live on it. And there, if we take care of our productive sectors, which is where rural people trust... that is, the productive sectors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u303	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u304	...it is true that they then sustain all services. But it has to be based on the productive sectors. We're not going into details about how they are, and we've analyzed it. If we talk about creating other forms of employment. Well, we've also done quite little. It's true that when he played, we filled this country with industrial polygons. But it's true that we have them in the mountains. And, as a mayor once told me, the worst thing is that we asphalt them and now we can't even put the plow on him to turn them back into pastries. But no alternative has been created. If we talk about services, we've already been told that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u305	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u306	...when all services are closed, where first they are closed and more forcefully in the countryside. And if we talk about social services, with a population of the oldest in Europe, with the lowest pensions in the state, the social services in this country, where minimum income only covers 9 out of every 1,000 inhabitants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u307	Finish it, Mr. Garcia, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u308	...where we occupy position number 14 in the autonomous communities that we less devote to social services, because, in fact, expectations are not very good. May the People's Party, in that new era, it seems that Mr. Feijó always starts when he speaks, and that it seems that he's started again the other day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u310	...you're about to change all that. If not, be consistent, this time yes, and vote that no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u311	People's Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I think the coexistence in this House had a lot to learn from the values that traditionally last in rural areas. I'm ashamed of sterile debates that seek confrontation and not answers. The rural, ladies and gentlemen, it is will, friendship, effort, solidarity, where all, men and women, we value, defend and try to share. [[Applause]] The focus of the matter, Mr Sánchez, is that the initiative that you bring to debate today, questions the current production models, criticizes the policies that have been followed in recent years, defend them, of which you have been and are responsible for popular governments. And it claims that they are the cause and provide identification situations. We are the cause of all the evils: of the fires, of depopulation, of aging, of the loss of agricultural population, of the crisis of the dairy sector... Your Honor, with this simplistic reflection, do you expect us to take your proposal seriously? According to you, current production models do not generate wealth, even today you spoke of the forest model and the management of the mountains based on crops of fast-growing species, which claims that it is not a particularly creative model of employment and wealth, and is the opposite of a multifunctional vision of the mountain and the diversification of the forest productive activity you seek or want to achieve. Your Honor, you qualify these two opposing models. We understand that they are complementary, not exclusive. They claim that abandonment causes abandonment, which is an economical calculation that has an impact on the provision of services. Your Honor, you've never been so wrong. Do you really mean the schools that were closing when there were responsibilities that were not of the People's Party, when the schools with 9 students were closing, and now they're less than 5? Ladies and gentlemen, school luncheons, but what do they tell me? When more than 11,000 squares were created... I think I listened to them with total respect, although everything they said was really lacking in this respect, because today the disqualifications have remained in these debates and in this House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] E-mail offices, Your Honor, they're also missing. But what you don't say is that today almost the entire rural population can have good access to the Internet. You keep moving the message: rural, less attractive; less schools, children's schools that don't exist, less services on the subject... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u313	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u314	...social, dependency support services that do not exist... Totally false, false. Because to reality I am sending myself, ladies and gentlemen, to reality. Never so much has it been invested in rural areas, with what it means to create jobs, not only in productive sectors, but in services sectors and other sectors that you forget about in your own initiative. [[Murmurs.]] They also question the current production models of subsidies and aid policies that have been made so far. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you question when you qualify, for example, in the dairy sector of smolt, or, as you have been called, help yourself with government funds of the People's Party, both at the Madrid level and at the level of the Union level, which were the only governments of the People's Party who brought additional funds for milk, for the productive sectors of Greece, lords, not others. If they don't fill up their mouths to talk about what can be done... it has to be done, it has to be proved by facts. You want to open a reflective process and accuse of opacity and lack of transparency in the processing of the new RDP. But it is by chance, Your Honor, that these are the words that the officials used, the Administration, when nationalists designed the previous PDR, which we have just applied. Then they were opaque, so they consulted the municipalities to form 31 local action groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are examples that really in the new RDP there are lines, because we keep working, we continue with the lines designed by nationalists, gentlemen, we continue with the lines of incorporation of youth into agrarian activity. It varies and will allow for a limit of EUR 70,000 per holding, depending on many factors, including the level of investment. New lines in the next period such as that which did not exist in the previous period, which is the one related to the development of small holdings that want to make investments more profitable, up to a total of EUR 15,000 per holding. And it will continue, Your Honor, with plans for improvement, with lines of investment in physical assets, support and very important measures in the RDP. But beyond the PDR, which will serve as a future tool, budgets remain, Your Honor. The budgets that are currently being processed, and where tax subsidies, where the zero tax program in rural areas, where birth promotion aid, which has already been practised with bonus in the previous exercise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u315	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u316	...but now you will have tips of 100 euros per child from January 2016... I really don't have enough time to quantify all the actions, all the measures, active, effective, that all governments have taken and take for their purposes, Mr. Sánchez. But the initiative is really empty of content. The initiative aims to be everyone who... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u317	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u318	...think about rural less those who really have rural competences. The political parties may come, Mr. Besteiro may come, Mr. Vance, as spokesmen of the political forces, but the administration cannot come. Those who have competence are really the ones who manage the funds and those who are next to the countryside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pacín. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u320	It wasn't clear to me whether the People's Party was going to "dance" in favor of or "dance" against this initiative, I didn't make it very clear. Yes, sir, I wasn't quite clear. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you just said a question that perfectly defines what you understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u321	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u322	...of the functioning of the institutions. It says precisely that who should be is the Administration, which is the one who manages. Of course, there's one thing that's the legislature and there's another thing that's the executive, and there's got to be a difference. You know it doesn't matter. Look, it's bad that we're going to solve the problems if we don't recognize them. Do you know how much employment has been destroyed in this country's agriculture in ten years? 44,000 jobs in ten years, in the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics, 44,000 jobs, a real scandal. But it's more, I've already told you, the age of landowners. You're saying it's okay because in this country 5% of landowners aren't 40 years old and 60 percent are 60 years old. What situation will this country have in five years if no action is taken? And you keep denying it, because you want it, you want it, you want it and you've wanted the desertification of the countryside, because if you don't, you don't understand it. Because it's so obvious that our rural data is abandoned, aging, that if you don't act, it's obviously because they don't want to do it and because they're interested. And because they're also interested in continuing to maintain dependency relationships, such as those that Mr Baltar uses, for example, to obtain certain favors. I wanted to tell you that it is not empty of content, that we are in favour of this Parliament being filled with content, and that we come to talk, of course, after thirty years of certain policies that empty the countryside, that one can change the course of this country and that rural can have a future. Because in this country, since Mr Feijóo's rule, we are 48,000 inhabitants less, people emigrate because of lack of opportunity, and in rural areas, in the countryside and in the mountains there are opportunities. And what I came to give here is data. You're talking about the forest model. Look, give me some evidence that shows, that supports, the arguments that you say. In this country, in Galicia, 50% of the Spanish State's cuts are produced, and they mean 13% of the billing. That means a model based on species of little value. And you deny it and don't want to come in and give arguments because you don't have them. The only way out, by the way, since you can't reason, is to dislodge them from there, that between a government that wants to change things. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u323	Quiet, please. As announced, we then raise the following question. From Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven more MPs from G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the evolution of tourist data in Galicia throughout the year 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u324	You have the floor to put your question to Mrs. Cristina Romero of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice President, good afternoon. The tourism sector is one of the most active sectors with greater development capacity in European economies. Reality that is not alien to the Greek economy, where the sector represents 12% of the German GDP and 12% of the total employment of our community. But besides, it presents a characteristic that singularizes it over other economic sectors, which is the capacity to affect them. A high recognition of Galicia at the global level will undoubtedly facilitate an entry door for the international development of other business sectors. The tourist sector has the ability to show Galicia as a brand of prestige that will support and strengthen the economic recovery in which we are already immersed. On the other hand, and from an internal perspective, tourism is, together with the trade sector, a sector with a greater capacity for social cohesion and the capacity to achieve the necessary territorial balance. For all these reasons, the Government of Galicia has developed the Strategic Plan of Galicia, a roadmap that seeks destabilization and with a long-term vision essential to achieve a solid and sustainable sector. Well, in this comprehensive tourism plan there were strategic targets for 2016, targets, most of them, which have been largely exceeded by 2014. Thus, tourists in regulated settlements exceeded 4 million in 2014, a target already marked by 2016. And regulated international tourists exceeded the million in 2014, target marked for 2016. And with regard to the total expenditure of international tourism, it reached almost 900 million euros, exceeding the target set for 2016 as well by 60 million euros. With regard to 2015, every time they got to know the tourist data, we found that they were always better year after year, and reaching on many historic peaks. Could you, Vice-President, get to know this House and make an assessment of it? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u326	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u327	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Romero, indeed, this is being – not finished yet – a good one, I think a magnificent year for tourism in Galicia. Besides, it was the year I had to be, especially because, taking advantage of the beginning of economic recovery, what we have to do is walk for as long as it's more obvious to be able to take advantage of everything that's going to be done this year. And so, I think I'm going to say that in 2015 our autonomous community, Galicia, has recorded the highest increase of travelers from all over Spain, which has been going on for four consecutive months, counting the month of September, the last one that's ending, we lead the growth in tourists from all over Spain, I think it speaks well of the clear that things are doing well. We have risen in these nine months since 2015 by 12% with respect to last year's figures, three million travellers, and are also rising – also important in addition to the number of travellers – the overnights of these travellers. And the greatest abundance, I think, is that the particularly important data on consolidation is that international tourism is also rising, which is the most important thing to consolidate and what can undoubtedly leave more money in Galicia for its purchasing power. We're already at 970,000, almost a million travelers this year and 1.5 million nights, which means it's rising. Those are the foreign tourists in Galicia, 30%, almost the third; and the nights that spend here 24%, the fourth of the total nights. And apart from, logically, this also leads to the rise of international tourism, Egatur's data. The data closed in September, 780 million euros, 12% more than it left international tourism in Galicia last year. It has never been reached in the history of Egatur in more than 700 million in September. This year, 780 million euros, and the three-month data remains nothing more. So I think this data shows you're going the right way. That increases the number of travellers, especially foreigners, who rise the number of overnights, who increase the spending of these tourists in Galicia, in the end what it does is consolidate the importance of tourism; fundamental, and it has to be much more. It is 12% of the total employment of our community; around 110,000 jobs in Galicia in 2014 were derived directly from tourism and more than 6 billion euros from our GDP. So I think you're doing the right thing, and if everything points to the consolidation of the economic improvement scenario, you'll still have to do it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u328	Thank you very much. Mrs Romero, by the People's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u329	Yes, thank you very much again, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, if 2014 has already been a good year in tourism terms for Galicia, with an increase in the number of travellers staying in hotel establishments of 8.1%, when in the total of Spain it grew only 4.8%, in terms of 2015, as you pointed out, Galicia has recorded the highest percentage of the state as a whole in terms of travellers, and it is located as a fourth community with a greater increase in overnight stays. International tourism continues to mark historic peaks this September, data this month, with more than 170,000 passengers staying and 267,000 per night, figures exceeding 12% and 13.2% respectively last year's levels. But if we look at the other segments of the market, we also find ourselves uphill this September. Thus, domestic tourism rose by 1,2 % per night and by 8,6 % on passengers, exceeding the 100,000 figure of the number of travellers living in Galicia, the highest figure since 2007. And national receiving tourism improves by 5.1%, reaching about 450,000 per night. In view of this data, Mr Vice-President, no one doubts the best behaviour year after year of Galician tourism, and no one will doubt that the work and commitment of the Greek Government is for it to be so, in something it will have to do with this tourist data. Of course, this parliamentary group recognises it and even wants to take this turn to congratulate the Government on its work on tourism. But once we know this latest data from the year 2015, what's going to be the wager of the Greek Government this year that remains of legislation to further improve these results, even to achieve greater hotel occupation and a higher average stay, so demanded by the sector? And on the other hand, Mr. Vice-President, since the indicator...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u331	Mrs. Romero, the goal is to continue to grow and take advantage of this ascending line, and to continue consolidating tourism that is coming here; and that repeats, it does not only interest that it comes more often and, as you said, that more time passes, that it increases the number of nights, that perhaps is the most desirable data in all general data, that it increases the number of nights, that people who come to visit us spend more time in Galicia, who know more, not only the most usual destinations, especially Santiago, that undoubtedly is a very attractive destination for people who come to Galicia, but who then have to take advantage to know many other corners, that undoubtedly there are and of very much value. This year we've been 250,000 pilgrims, who have been jacobeo for a year is the best historical data in September closed, which is when we have the data. And everything seems to indicate that we can get a lot closer, if you don't get over it, to the number recorded in the last year of Jacobo, in 2010, with all that that's going to be different between a year that's a Jacobo and a year that's not. We're already approaching the number of pilgrims who visited Galicia in the last year of Jacob. So, I think that's the way, to take advantage of the attractive power of the Way to get to know all of Galicia, and, in the meantime, to improve the quality of the destinations and the training of the hospitality professionals. We are the second autonomous community in Spain with more distinctive "Q" of tourist quality. Training needs to be further improved. The Itinerant School of Tourism, no doubt, is assuming in that sense an important impulse, and the Master Plan of the Way of Santiago, which plans for many years what must be the roads, not only the French Way but the rest of the paths of Santiago, to, without losing its essence, continue to be the main attraction, as I said, of tourists to Galicia and people who make the way and then take advantage of tourism in our autonomous community. And in the end, those goals that were already marked, which are by 2020, have already been surpassed even in 2015 as you recalled in your last intervention, and what you have to do is mark more ambitious targets and then be able to fulfill them. What are they for the year 2020? It's bringing us closer to the 5 million tourists in regulated establishments, 1,250,000 foreign tourists with all the value, which I referred to in my first intervention, which has to empower, fix and increase foreign tourism also by their purchasing power and their capacity to increase, and also exceed the 1 billion euros of international tourism spending. These are the targets for the year 2020 once they have passed those which had already been set for the year 2020 five years before, and I hope that during the remaining decade you can say that these records have been broken again and that they can be set even more ambitious targets and that in principle they were planned for many years ahead of what is, fortunately for Galicia, for their gross domestic product and for their employment, marking with much advance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u332	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u333	...and of course these are all good signs and what needs to be followed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the view of the German Government regarding the conduct of an investigation concerning the new intention of a neo-Nazi group to defend the alleged perpetrators of the death of a person, in a violent manner, on December 30, 2014 in the vicinity of the Manzanares stadium, in Madrid
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u334	Mr. Jorquera has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u335	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rueda, I'm a footballer but I hate all the violent attitudes that they use football as an alibi. But this question isn't about football, it's about a brutal murder not to be unpunished. Look, ever since I met Jimmy's murder, I've felt outraged by the fact that he did, and by the way he introduced himself, "Deems an extra of the sportsman after a fight with radicals of the athletics," said the Madrid press, instead of "murdering a sportsman by ultras, or – if you prefer – Nazis, the Athletic Front." They were talking about a stay, although it was then proved to be false, that what was happening was a lock, a real "hunting at the trigger," as before there was a hunt at the boat killing Actor Zabaleta. Since the first minute, it has been attempted to turn the victims into culprits, Mrs. Cifuentes has done it, perhaps to cover up that in the middle of Madrid there was a mob attack and that the police take half an hour to appear, or to cover up too that, while Jimmy was dying in the waters of the Manzanares River, no one came to help him. Look, Mr. Rueda, in my city four cops gave their lives for helping a student in the brave waters of the Orzán Sea. Mrs. Cifuentes asked what were the giraffes of the Depor in Madrid; that is, in that Spain, it is a sin to join us together to encourage your team to Calderón stadium. So did Mr. Thebes, president of the Football League. Perhaps his past in Force Nueva explains why he at first tried to blame sportsmen. He also made some means, soaking up with Jimmy, ignoring the pain of his family. And in a country where respect for death is sacred till it was a cause of suspicion to come to his burial. They introduced Jimmy like a father, like no one. Look, I think there is no one, but even if there were them, even a father-in-law and no one has rights, and there is no right for his death to be unpunished. And whenever there was a fascist murder, the tactic to cover it up was to try to envelop the victim. That's why, Mr. Rueda, what are you going to do to the Galician Council so that this savage murder doesn't go unpunished? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u336	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the Vice-President, President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u337	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Jorquera, first of all – I'm sure you think the same thing too, but I'm going to say it expressly – with respect to the memory of the sawmill and his family. I think there's no difference in this between you and me. I'm also a footballer, perhaps not as much as you do, but I fully subscribe to what you said: absolute rejection of any kind of violence in sport and in any way, but now we're talking about sport. And from there, honestly, I don't understand very well, and I'm sorry to tell you, what's the object of your question. If it is to say that we agree to investigate to the end and the culprits fall with all the weight of the law on those who murdered the sportsman, I suppose he will have no doubt about it. What we're not going to do is we're not going to have parallel trials or show you things that you have to show them is police research. I do trust police investigation. You, by the way, don't trust me at all. I trust the police investigation and, of course, I trust the action of justice, which is the one you're investigating, and it's the one you have to deal with the culprits. And I think that's what we have to say, and that they do it as soon as possible and that they do it without any doubt. Everything else, the parallel judgments, also politicians, which I understand you have done, I don't think they help at all to clarify what we all want to clarify. There are legal mechanisms not only to give the culprits but also to prevent it from occurring – I hope it never takes place, never again – these kinds of situations, this kind of sports violence that leads to the end of the death of a sawsmith. That's what legal mechanisms are for, and if they're not enough, they change. Now, to make parallel judgments, to show things that are still under investigation, to see you political intent in the actions of public officials, I'm sure that what you want, above all, is that this is clarified, I think it's wrong to shoot, wrong the problem, and of course not to help anything to clarify, and the whole weight of the law on Jimmy's death culprits falls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u338	Mr. Rueda. Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u339	Mr. Wheel, I'll give you data. You see, several of the Welsh Syrians were beaten, none of them from the Athletics of Madrid, and there are 57 fines executed of 60,000 euros each, all against sportsmen, none against the members of the Nazi group. And with regard to the murder, Judge Diz says that one can't determine whether the alleged culprits killed Jimmy or, on the contrary, what they did was beat up and throw out the river to another sportsman who got hurt. But look, the obvious thing is they've tried to commit a murder, whether it's finished or not, and it turns out they're left free and out of charge. But look, imagine what would happen if it were the other way around? But, in addition, pay attention. Now we know that from June there's a protected witness, an inflate from the Athletics of Madrid that says who the killers were and how the murders were committed, and neither the judge nor the prosecutor are quoting him to declare it. Aren't you going to have to see this where there's a civilian guard and a military guard among those alleged involved? Won't you have to see that the criminal defence attorney is an old prosecutor of the National Audience known for his extreme right-wing positions? He's talking about police investigation. Is it acceptable for you to present writings censoring the excess zeal of the police for not closing the investigation? Look, I too respect justice, but when justice is so unfair, I am remembered by the poem of Rosalía Justiza by the hand. But look, we don't ask the Board to interfere with justice, we ask him to make a statement, to make a public statement demanding justice, that's what we are asking him to do, to add to the cry in the city of Coruña, to demand that he investigate himself to the end, that he therefore bear the blame and that this crime, ultimately, be not unpunished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u340	You have the word Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u341	Well, if that's what you want, Mr. Jorquera, public statement, if you do justice and you carry the culprits with you till the end, but I would miss you more! But what are you asking me? [[Applause]] What are you asking the Galician Council? Is that what you want? Do you have any doubts? What's the matter, that you don't always have to ask for it? What's the matter, do you think you should ask for it according to the cases, and there are cases that you and you don't? You must always ask for it, Mr. Jorquera, that the weight of the law should fall upon the guilty, and that it be done justly. Of course, if we start to distinguish afterwards – and I speak in general – whether justice is fair or not, whether it is to be accepted but not to respect it according to you likes what is being done or not, then, Mr.Jorquera, forgive me for telling it, but justice disappears absolutely. If you want the Council of Galicia to make a parallel trial, to start by saying who is to blame and who is not, that we say, according to ideologies, that what does justice to others does not, simply because of their ideology, I say that justice, regardless of ideology, must always act. And that you have doubts and you think it is necessary to make a public statement so that this is clear makes me worry a lot about your concept of justice, I'm sorry to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u342	Thank you very much. Question by Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions being carried out by the Government of Galicia to enable the continued activity of the fleet of the siege
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u343	Mr. Val has the word to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u344	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Counsellor, today again we bring back to the plenary of this chamber the problem that has been affecting a very large part of the fleet of the Greek siege for more than two years now. And this time we bring him for different reasons. First because the situation has clearly changed in the last few days, now it's no longer a constant threat of lack of profitability from fishing companies, now we're talking about that the fleet has been tied to the port for more than ten days, with all that it means, Counselor: more than 1,200 sailors who have neither income nor will have them in the next two months, and many induced jobs that are in the air. And we also bring this initiative for another reason, a question that seems to us very little elegant, for not using another word, and that was the statement by Minister Tejerina telling the shipowners of the siege that they didn't complain, that they are tied up, that they are well, that they have already earned enough this year. Indignant, indeed, Counselor, your attitude and that of the Ministry; that of the Ministry for these statements, and yours for consenting them. People have been on the street for a long time claiming from you, Mrs. Quintana, the attention you haven't paid him all this time. What did you plan to do, Mrs. Quintana? Because at the meeting you held last week, the sector itself thought you were changing your mind, and even thought you were going to get into the bottom of the matter, which is the change of distribution. But, of course, it didn't last them long, it didn't last them that joy they had, because, as soon as they saw the press release that your cabinet sent them calling for better management, it noticed that you have two faces. Counsellor, with the jury and the moustache closed in 8C and 9A – although today the Ministry has just made public a distribution, a further increase of quota, for zone 9A of 300 tons, of which Galicia will correspond to 3 tons – with the sardine subject to a management plan, without a yard after a change with the Segepesca last Friday, which remains in the sector, Mrs. Quintana? What does the Government offer you? What does the sea councillor offer you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. The sea councillor, Mrs. Rosa Quinta Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, yesterday afternoon we had a chance to talk once more about the subject of the siege, and today I say the same thing as I said yesterday: the only thing we are doing at the Galician Union, the only thing I'm doing is me and all my team, the only thing they're doing in the Ministry by the siege of Galicia, is working, working, looking for the best scientific data to bring them to the European Union and getting more and better fishing opportunities every day. So by that scientific data, by that work, we have achieved the rise of the quotas of the main species that captures the siege, and since the year 2009 – I repeat, and I have said it – these quotas have increased by 52%. In addition, in 2013, the current Government of the State corrected the distribution made by the former Government, and proceeded to formulate a generalized increase in quotas allocated to the fleet of the siege, lowering those of the trawl, in all species and with the same distribution criteria as they are currently criticized. In this way, the siege rose in the Jury in Area 8C, from 46% to 53%, and in Area 9A from 50% to 54.8%. And in the garden it grew from 27% to 34%. With these distribution criteria that allowed him to rise his percentage, it was the one that proceeded to divide the internal division, and in this case we have to say that, in view of a historical 21% share in the yard line, we now achieve 24.8%; and this year, after the corrections, we move to 26%. Besides, now it seems that the problem this year is the jury, and in this species we have almost 44% of the quota of the three zones, and most of all we emphasize that in zone 9A we have 98%. In the same way, we also face the flexibilization of sanctions that we have overfishing. So, in the case of the jury, where the quota is divided between areas 8B, 8C and 9A, we achieved a 50% flexibility of zone 8B for 8C, with which most of our Galician fleet can fish for a jury that could not fish before. Similarly, on several occasions we mediated in front of the Segepesca and autonomous communities to obtain advance or exchange quotas, either with other countries or with other fleets. Your Honor, your work, your work and your ability to increase your quotas year after year, that's what we're in both the Union and the Ministry. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u347	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. Val Alonso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u348	Look, Counselor, the truth is, to work so hard, the industry doesn't notice anything. Here's the example, at the gates of San Caetano, they've been camped there for more than a week, more than 120 fence ship owners, who have been tied to the port for more than ten days and without any expectation of being able to work until the beginning of next year 2016. So it seems to me that those figures that you've given yourself do not serve anything at all, because you don't realize that where the problem is, is the distribution model that you've been defending for more than two years. And you too have been very accustomed to us in this Parliament to running away from your responsibilities and blaming past governments, without realizing that you are the ultimate responsibility of the Greek Government for fishing since 2009, Mrs. Quintana; therefore, there is some responsibility for what is happening in the sector. I told you in Commission 3 yesterday too: you have seven budgets managed in this government – seven budgets – over EUR 800 million for fishing. And their balance at this time is more than 5,000 people who have given up on a daily basis in the special regime of the sea. And that's the failure of your model, the failure of the People's Party model. Look, yesterday he finished his speech at that show, saying his goal was to generate jobs, he was to generate jobs at sea. And I wonder if you think this is the way. I repeat to you, for ten days now, 1,200 workers in the sea have not been able to have a single income from their activity. Is that the model you're going to generate employment in the sea, Counselor? Didn't you realize that the problem is the distribution model? You're in the background, Counselor. Don't you realize that this model that's generating is an important inequality already within the Galician fleet, and much bigger than other Cantabrian communities? That's reality, it's not worth patches, it's not worth 10 percent to the next year's quota, it's not enough for exchanges. What it is, Mrs Quintana, is to go to the bottom of the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. The sea councillor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u350	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, we talked about it yesterday, and I ask you not to confuse the figures when they are given, because maybe you can lead to a mistake. You say in my management, 5,000 jobs have disappeared. No, the data is backwards. During the years 2005 to 2008, 4,500 jobs were lost, and from 2009 to September 2015, 2,000 were lost. Those are the differences; no, no, put the numbers down as you have to. [[Murmurs.]] Look, right now you say they're tied up and they can't go out to work. They were offered the exchange of yards - if they didn't want a yard - for swearing so they could work. And they still have possibilities, they have 600 tons of garden that they could still keep fishing. If you'd rather catch interest right now and not waste, you'd have offered them that chance of changing the yard for interest, and they didn't want to accept the change. They now have new possibilities for sardine fishing, which we are in a management plan, which still remains a lot of sardine, that the months we had reserved for fences will not be necessary because there are still tons left to be able to fish. Shouldn't they get the 6,000 kilos a week? [[Murmurs.]] So they can ask for the 10,000 increase, because we still have sardine in the sea, and there are other people who are fishing for it. Look, I told the sector – and I don't have a double face, because what I say I keep it – that we've been in this division for two years. There's no problem talking to the Ministry, talking to the rest of the autonomous communities, and in January we'll sit back and see how the distributions are going. Because you look at what we're talking about: in zone 9A we have 98% of the jury, which is the fundamental species of our fleet of the siege. That's what I came to say when we were riding the jelly through the distribution of the garden, 98% we have. Come on, the joint Acerga management boats, 98% of them have 72%. When it comes to handing over as a crew member, you have to do your homework well. And all I ask you to do is make your own accounts, sit down with the sector and help you think about them, not change your position according to what they tell you every day. If we go to the crew division, the 850 sailors who have in Andalusia also enter that division. And ojito! , we're not going to go from 98% of the interest to 34% and we're left with an anchor that goes in for a few years and not others. So I'll never take a step without first analyzing whether we're going to win or lose in the game. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-27-DSPG126.u351	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. We'll stop the meeting until tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night, thank you very much.
