ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u1	Please take your seats. We resume the session with agenda item 7, which is questions for oral reply by the President of the Galician Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the creation of a general leadership to address the demographic problem of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u2	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u3	Mr. President, you have just recognized the failure of your policy by changing half government. Between people recycling and cosmetic changes, it creates the General Directorate for Demographic Dynamication. Three years ago, you avoided seriously discussing the demographic plan here, assuming it was propaganda. As we said then and as it was predictable, it was ineffective, birth continues to decline. Both the one and the new Family Plan that they now announce, are both voluntary and limited; few paid benefits and many declarations of intent. For example, to convince companies that they bear the costs of working reconciliation – in no country has been achieved, but good. International experience indicates that direct aid has a limited effect; it is necessary but insufficient. The decisive factor in the demographic crisis is the work of young people, who are in fertile age, who have expectations and confidence in the future, and who cannot carry them out with two-month contracts and wages under the minimum wage; they can't think of having children when they don't have a stable income guarantee. Many can't even be independent, and it doesn't help anything that their government liquidates social housing policy. Instead of changing economic policy to create jobs – as people claim – you promote Christmasism; an ideological vision of religious roots. You know there are few countries with precedents for Christmas-based policies. So far, the main initiative of the Union in this matter has been a EUR million and a half publicity campaign. They propagated an unreal, sweetened model of family, so they had to accept here in their day that it was necessary to modify that image that was intended to be transmitted. The declared goal of the campaign was to increase births by 50%; during that time, 8% fell. Mr. President, the problem is not the number of people, but the quality of life of people. Ageing is fought with work opportunities for young people, who are the ones who leave; they do not emigrate the old ones, emigrate the new ones because of the decadence of the country and the stagnation of opportunities. Or do you ever wonder why we only have immigrants? Do you really think that this will fix it with more propaganda and a general direction as unique measures?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that you start to add to your concern about the demographic problem we have in Galicia, Spain and much of the European Union. We have, at least this parliamentary group, since many legislations have been talking about this matter, so if you want to start talking about it now, I think it's good news. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not so naive to believe that this is a problem that will be solved in the short term. Germany has no solution; Japan has no solution: Italy has no solution; Spain has no solution. But if we think we have to work on it, and that's why we've been working on it for quite a while. Your Honor, the problems of ageing the population, the problems of birth, should affect the whole Government structurally, horizontally and vertically. That's why, Your Honor, we believe that in the structure of the Government it is appropriate that this problem is presented in a concrete and explicit way. Your Honor, we were the first to raise the demographic problem of Galicia. We've been talking about this for some time. I recall that it was President Fraga in 2001, which raised this problem in a concrete way from the parliamentary point of view and from the Government's point of view. That's why the first demographic dynamization plan was introduced at that time. The Bipartite arrived – you were part of the Government – and the demographic problems of Galicia disappeared; they disappeared from the Government agenda, but they insisted on the problems of the Greek society. That is why we are now returning to this matter, and we are doing so both at Spanish and European level. Galicia is leading the Forum of the Spanish Regions for the demographic challenge, where Asturias, Castela-León, Castela-A Mancha, Estremadura and Aragon are located. We are with European regions of France, Denmark and Germany, considering that European funds must take account of the demographic problems of the European Union at European level. That's why, Your Honor, this government has spoken in the debate on the state of autonomy, since 2010, on this matter. That's why we presented a demographic plan in which we have executed 61% of the proposals; that is, without you helping anything. That's why Galicia has Spain's highest tax deductions for children from 1 to 3 years old; Spain's highest tax deductions. So, Your Honor, we've raised 71% of the public school squares. That's why we take measures in the housing, considering children already conceived. That's why we take action in public transport, Your Honor, and that's why we're going to continue to take action in both the nursery and the caretaker in rural areas, as well as in the family card. [[Murmurs.]] I don't think, Mr. Méndez Romeo, that you should mock the proposals of a government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u6	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u7	I don't think you should be wrong, either. Because, if you think it's all an economic problem, why is Germany an average age in its 45-year-old population? [[Murmurs.]] Why is Japan an average age in its 44.8-year-old population?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u8	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u9	Why is Italy an average age in its population of almost 44 years? Mr. Méndez Romeo, be a little more serious. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u10	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u11	I'm done. Be a little stricter, Mr. Feijóo. In Galicia, employment and births grew between 1995 and 2008, and have fallen since 2009. You will agree with me that they are related variables, because otherwise it would be to accept that they come down because you rule. Let's be a little serious. And if we agree that they are related variables, we need to act on job opportunities and facilitate reconciliation. Let's talk about work. Today women have to choose between having a double working and family day or leaving work. In fact, today we have in Galicia more women heads of household than men, but with more temporality, more part-time, less wages and more stops. Let's talk about reconciliation. There are 30,000 Greek families who don't have day care, Mr. President. These 30,000 families account for 55% of children under 3 years of age, data from the Social Affairs Council on the web. Not even today, there are day-care centers, for example, in industrial polygons, and only in business. Mr President, there are two models of family policy: the Scandinavian model, which is oriented not to birth, but to equality in work and co-responsibility; of course, with strong fiscal progress and advanced social services. We could say it's social democracy in the vein, something that's allergic to you. And then we have the French model: strong subsidies to families with children and highly developed family and housing policy; also very high tax pressure. You're promoting tax laundering while favoring great fortunes with a return tax policy. They campaign for birth and destroy the labour market. And then you can be surprised at the birth data?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u12	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u13	I remind you that it is necessary to be a little serious, Mr. Méndez Romeo. To say that the birth problem in Galicia comes from now on, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, the birth problem comes from the 1980s. [[Murmurs.]] Between 1975 and 1979, an average of 43,000 children were born in Galicia, and from the 1980s they began to fall; 34,000 between 1980 and 1984, up to 21,000 between 1990 and 1994. [[Murmurs.]] And we have maintained the same figure since the years 1991-1994, almost the same figure, around 20,000 to 21,000. [[Murmurs.]] What, exactly, are you talking about, Mr. Méndez Romeo? [[Murmurs.]] In recent years, in full economic recession, an average of 20,803 children were born in Galicia, about the same year as from 2005 to 2009. By the way, they were born more than between 2000 and 2004, where they were born 19,830, and unemployment was lower than unemployment that you left when they left the government. Therefore, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to whom wilt thou deceive? To the mother and the Greek parents or do you want to fool yourself? Your Honor, now that you are talking about unemployment, after the debate on the state of autonomy, where you wanted to talk about nothing more and nothing less than the problems of unemployment as a result of the survey of active population, nothing said about it. And now it turns out that the survey of active population says Galicia is the third autonomous community where Spain's unemployment is the lowest. And again, Your Honor, we are inside the autonomous communities with less unemployment registered and less unemployment in the last active population survey. What do you want to be serious about, Mr. Méndez Romeo? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It turns out that demography, Your Honor, has a lot to do with economic problems. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I do not argue that it has an impact, but since 1980 in Spain there have been moments of economic kindness, moments of economic crisis, moments of massive unemployment – usually when the Socialist Labour Party ruled Spanish –. And yet demographic problems remained around 20,000 to 21,000 births. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, when he tells me that we didn't increase the childhood schools – I just gave him the data – 71% more squares of childhood schools than when you ruled. We are for the first time above the recommended ratio nothing more and nothing less than the UN. We're above the ratio, 33 percent of every 100, and now we're at 34% of every 100. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, shall we continue to support birth? The answer is yes. The demographic objective can be measured in the long or medium term, yes. Now, in the short term, what I'm telling you is that this government will support all the Greeks and all the Greeks who want to have children. What I do tell you is that this government considers family policies that want children in the autonomous community as a priority. And what we are committed to is that this government supports the personal decision of Welsh people who want to have children. And that Galicia is the easiest place to have children, both from a fiscal point of view, from a direct or public service point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u15	Therefore, Mr. Méndez Romeo, I believe that, if you say you are a Social Democratic, you should support these measures. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the problems presented by the new hospital in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u16	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, this plenary began yesterday with a minute of silence for the victims of macho violence, but not enough with minutes of silence, we must act. Because victims of macho violence have been many, not just murdered women, and it's been 24 hours and we're still waiting for you to demand Mr Baltar's resignation. [[Applause]] But, look, coming into matter, your Government has just presented budgets and health spending increases by 4.4%, that is, under the average, but the cost of private public collaboration in the new Vigo hospital increases by 200%. He justified the use of private public collaboration to be able to afford the construction of the hospital, and a hospital that would cost 450 million euros will cost us 1,350. It justified the use of the CPP for a financing problem, and although the conditions of the concessionaire established that the financing was the risk and adventure of the concessionaire, it had to be the public sector that sought financial resources for it. I mean, what was going to be a public hospital funded by private funds, ended up being a private hospital funded by public goods, and still cut above. Because you cut everything. They cut out reference services like the central laboratory; they cut out beds, surgeons, emergency spaces, teaching spaces; the maternal-child hospital project disappeared; they shut down specialty centers, and in case all this was little, users have to endure precariousness and abuse in the delivery of the service by the concessionaire. Unusual payments for food, for parking; unabated prices in the cafeteria; absence of toilets in surgeries and consultations; dripping and flooding in corridors; rupture of a driving of faecal waters in the emergency area in the middle of this month; paralysed the Pathological Anatomy Service due to ventilation problems; lack of essential material, see you. An operation was cancelled to a cancer patient for lack of material at the beginning of this month; many others were cancelled due to sterilization problems; a skull had to be drilled with the incomplete engine. Leo: "The saw engine was on its way to sterilization, and as it did not arrive it operated with an incomplete engine which, instead of cutting, milled the bone. The patient...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u19	...it will be life-threatening with unnecessary bone defect." Have you read this nurse's testimony, Mr. Feijóo? Do you still think the Alvaro Cunqueiro hospital problem is reduced to some disturbances motivated by your transfer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u20	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I see that you do not follow the budget debates with interest, because, if you had followed the budget debates with interest, the most budgeted counsellor in 2016 is the Health Council, the Galician Health Service. So we put public health again as the first target, not only for government, but also for public spending in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, Your Honor, to pass on to you some papers that, as is logical, you don't have time to contrast. But to say here, once again, another falsehood, that we charge for feeding in the hospital, is another falsehood that you have, unfortunately, in your existence. To say, for example, we've reduced the emergency space, when it's the largest emergency space in any public hospital in Galicia, 6,000 square meters. The largest emergency room in all hospitals, the largest emergency room in all hospitals operating in Galicia. They say it decreases the number of rooms. 122% increase, Your Honor. From 255 rooms to 567 rooms. Your Honor, what are you talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They say it decreases the number of surgeons. Five surgeries increase. So, it gives me the feeling, Mr. Jorquera, that you don't have the data, or, if you do, you don't want to tell them. When you talk about the hospital funding system, you should know that we found ourselves nothing more and nothing less than 2,300 million euros in 2009 that we had to return to the Government of Spain. Yes, we found ourselves in the budget, in addition to the debt, with zero square meters of expropriation to the hospital and zero euros to make a new hospital. We had two possibilities, to issue public debt and to breach the public deficit, which the Socialist Government has forbidden in Madrid, or to propose a speedy payment of the hospital, which the Socialist Government has authorized in Madrid. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, either do a hospital or don't do it. We can do what you do, they don't; or we could, on the other hand, do a hospital. Now tell us we're going to pay for the hospital. Do you think this hospital, if it wasn't for the Galego Health Service, would we pay it? Of course, since it's a hospital owned by the Galego Health Service, we have to pay for the hospital. How logical, Mr. Jorquera! [[Murmurs.]] All public hospitals pay the Galego Health Service; that's why it's a public hospital like the others. [[Applause]] Mr. Jorquera, to deny that Vigo's public hospital is a great hospital; to deny that it has a surface that triples the previous general hospital, that is, we've done a hospital three times larger than the previous hospital; to deny that we have better radio diagnostic units; to deny that we have more room for the surgeons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u23	...for the consultations, for the rooms, it's not to defend public health. And we will continue to defend public health. Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u24	Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u25	Yes, Mr. Feijóo, you defend public health by paying triple for delivering the management of this hospital to a private company. But look, let's see who says falsehoods. See this picture? These are the conditions in which professionals develop their work at Vigo's new hospital. But allow me to read witnesses from the users. "I was quoted in the hospital for a laser-programmed surgical intervention. I'm told in the waiting room that it can't be carried out because there's no laser in this hospital. After a mouse, I'm given a discharge report where it's said to be reprogramming, but in the Mexoeiro hospital." Another. "My grandfather went into emergency. He had 20 hours of sitting in a pocket with his glasses, covered in his own jacket because they had neither blankets nor bed. There are patients in the corridors, and the old man who came in with my grandfather had been without food for a day." "My grandmother, nearly 90 years old, came in through a fall. It turned out to have the chair broken. To find out he was in an emergency for 11 hours. After being seen by the doctor, they took her up to a room and there she goes, without being operated, because the surgeons are not sterilized and there are not enough materials or doctors. Tomorrow he'll be lying in that bed a week ago, based on tranquilizers, and seeing hallucinations." Would you like me to go on, Mr. Feijóo? Do you want me to go on? Because there's a lot more. You wait hours for appointments, people who have a favorite appointment for a TAC and have been waiting for more than a month. Look, Mr. Feijóo, since you talk about falsehoods, we do talk to the professionals, we do talk to the users, go down to the real world for once, because the reality of Vigo's new hospital is the one we're commenting on. What would be his great work, Mr. Feijóo, became a great scam. Look, Mr. Feijóo--concluding already-- nobody in such a short time did as much damage to public health in Galicia as you did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u27	Mr. Jorquera, to say in the House that hospital surgery is unserviceable, we have done 723 surgical interventions in these surgeries. Hospitalization, 2,960; consultations, 73,300; and emergency care, 12,837, in the first month after the most difficult transfer ever made in the Galician Health Service. [[Applause]] Mr. Jorquera, be a little serious. Again saying that hospital surgery doesn't meet the environmental parameters, and sterilization parameters are a great irresponsibility. Mr. Jorquera, it's obviously not easy to make that transfer. If you like, go see the Asturian press a year ago. Central Asturias Hospital. The Labour Health Committee of that hospital detected 700 incidences in the new hospital in Asturias. It was done by the Socialist Labour Party Spanish and Left United ruling in Asturias. Mr. Jorquera, I simply ask you to let the professionals work and let them continue investing in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] Mr.Jorquera, the next exercise we will invest again in Vigo, where health care refers to EUR 15 million. We're going to install a Continuous Care Point in Vigo; we're going to do works in the Mexoiro: laboratories, microbiology, radiophysics, external consultations, area of adaptation to the surgical block, reinforcement in outpatient surgery... and at this new hospital we're going to put two hybrid surgeries and an intraoperative TAC. Mr. Jorquera, I don't think that's exactly what you're doing with that hospital or with the 6,000 professionals working in Vigo. You and your responsibility! Mr. Jorquera, what we're doing is the most difficult transfer, because in addition to moving, we're merging two hospitals. So we're making a new structure, a new technology, a new organization, new operating circuits and a new culture. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I would like to thank all the professionals in the Galician Health Service what they do. Look, last night he went into the emergency ward of the Coruña Hospital Complex with a patient suspected of having an infection with the Ebola virus. He's been working all night in that hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you don't care. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u29	...the health problems of Galicia. I do, and that's why I thank the Coruña hospitals and the Vigo hospital for what they're doing in this case that has us busy and worried, Your Honor. Of course I appreciate it. [[Applause]] I thank you, Your Honor, for all the emergency personnel at the Coruña hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u30	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u31	I thank the staff at Vigo Hospital who just received that patient. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I thank you for 061, which transferred you according to the protocols. [[Murmurs.]] So, Your Honor, continue to deteriorate Vigo's public health... you and your responsibilities! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u32	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the reasons for the cessation of Mrs. Health Adviser
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u33	You have the floor, to ask your question, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u34	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, there are political decisions that cause death. No doubt, there are already studies that indicate that privatizing public health as you are doing will have brutal consequences; and of course, it is causing deaths in our country, without doubt. You're responsible. We're seeing in our country as your star project, you boast of it, it's become a real chaos, Mr. Feijóo. This is his march: chaos in the city of Vigo. And we're also seeing, Mr. Feijóo, that Vigo's citizenship is at real risk, Mr. Feijóo, because of that defeat in which the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo hospital was converted, privatized, which is in the commercial companies of the company Accióna, Mr. Feijóo, it is not from the public network of Sergas. We'd like to hear about what's going on in this hospital and the Councillor's termination. We have doubts. Did you stop counseling because you deprived too much or because you privatized too much, Mr. Feijó? Can you explain to us what's happening in Vigo's hospital, for example, with that death on Aspergillus, with the evidence of Asperguillus kidnapped, Mr. Feijóo? Denunciations made by the optionals, that you have taken directly and that prevent you from knowing the truth, Mr. Feijóo. Can you tell us – are the janitors, privatized also in that service of Vigo hospital – they will continue to pay for these two modalities, the private company of the janitors and also for the service they are practicing in the public? Will you keep doing this, Mr Feijóo? Can you talk to us and explain how it's possible what's going on in that hospital, which is getting worse, without central lab and without sterilization, Mr. Feijóo? Of course, reading the stories that professionals are making about what happens because they lack sterilized material in the hospital itself, Mr. Feijóo, is scary. The one about the skull Mr. Jorquera, Mr. Feijóo, told a story about Edgar Allan Poe. You're scared, Mr. Feijó. Are you aware of what's going on? Are you aware that there are patients, Mr. Feijóo, many patients, who, for example, take contrasts to TAC practices and have to go from the hospital because the TAC was broken, Mr. Feijóo? This is real, Mr. Feijóo. It's real! We'll introduce you to patients with cancer, if you like, so you can meet them. Are you aware of the disunity, the disaster of the privatization of the counsellor already stopped? But the point is that you address Junta and you continue to privatize our health, Mr. Feijóo. Tell us why the health advisor stopped. I insist, why did you privatize yourself or why you privatize too much? Mr. Feijóo, are you going to rescue Vigo's hospital?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u35	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u36	Yes or no? And, Mr. Feijóo, will you stop doing a big deal with our country's public health? Galicia is the third community, according to the report of the state public health federations, which most privatizes. I insist on how I started. There are political decisions that kill, and you're responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u38	Your Honor, what scares you is to hear you speak in a general way. And talk about health, panic, Your Honor. You're panicking. Panic, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your mission is to destabilize the Greek public health. Go on, go on. We were proud that this very health care you despised, for example, had been able to increase the last year, over the year 2009, in 400,000 new consultations in a year; in 2014 about the year 2009. Or to do anything but 23,000 surgical interventions more in the surgeons, in the afternoon of tomorrow, in the Sergas hospitals. We're proud of the health care performance of the Galego Health Service hospitals, so we're proud that severe pathologies have been lowered in waiting at the hospital and that we're doing more lower outpatient surgery and higher outpatient clinic. We are proud, Your Honor, that the taxes of the Greeks financed 30 new health centers and 15 running; that is, 45. We are proud, Your Honor, that we are building, expanding or reforming 7 hospital complexes, which will give us that 70% of the Greeks, at the end of this legislation, will have a new health center or a new or expanded hospital in their health area. Your Honor, ask me about government appointments. Mr. Méndez Romeo said I changed the whole Government, I changed a member of the Government. And you ask me based on what I did. On the basis of the powers given to me by the Constitution of Galicia, i.e. the Statute of Self-Government. Sign that statute for the president to appoint and cease the members of his Government. In addition, there is a law of the year 1983 – I suppose you have heard about it – the Law of the Union and its President, where he once again says that it is up to the president to appoint and cease the members of his Government. Your Honor, from the renewal of the Government until now there has been a debate about the state of autonomy. It gives me the feeling that you're either giving up or censoring your spokesperson, because nothing spoke of this, and now you seem to want to stop your spokesperson. [[Murmurs.]] Now, between what happens in the United Left and at Podemos, I believe absolutely everything. Your Honor, saying that the problems of public health are the incidences in a building...! Of course there are incidences, and of course there are deficiencies, and of course we have to fix them. And that's why the first counselor he did in the first week was go to the hospital and talk to the professionals, and we'll keep talking to them. That's right, those professionals I think have the right to know. Look at the criticisms: absence of covered spaces, evacuation deficiencies, oxidized locks, paths that don't fit in the elevators, lack of oncology space. Your Honor, it's not the Hospital Alvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo, it's the Central Hospital of Asturias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u40	A year ago, progressive government in Asturias. He was United Left. Though now, Your Honor, United Left doesn't know where he is. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u41	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u42	Mr Feijóo, you, in addition to being the most expensive president in the history of democracy in this country – EUR 10 billion in debt – is the worst manager in this country. I insist. Star project, Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, today turned into chaos. You are not counsellor of Public Works as when I ruled with Mr. Fraga, Mr. Feijóo. You're the president of the Galician board, and you're frivolous about what's going on in Vigo's hospital is that you deserve to resign immediately. Listen to the janitors who are here with us, Mr. Feijóo, they want an answer today. Listen to Vico's public health professionals. Listen to the people who have been able to cease the Health Counsellor, Mr. Feijóo; 200,000 people in the streets of Vigo for the harm that you are doing. I suppose for you this picture, also beautiful, of making resonances in a truck is very modern, Mr. Feijóo. It's super-modern, it's own from a developed country, from what you were talking about, from Germany; from what you were talking about, from Germany, Mr. Feijóo. But look, Mr. Feijóo, you're not a public works adviser. You have to guarantee rights in our public health that you don't guarantee. The People's Party has destroyed public health in this country, which is no longer universal, Mr. Feijóo; it is no longer universal. And they're turning – you too – into a real health business. You raise the budget this year to pay the so-called canon, about 70 million euros, to that company that makes profits in our country, Mr Feijóo; it is not to improve the public health network, Mr Feijóo. And look, Mr. Feijóo, I suppose you go to Rosaleda when you're sick, or when you attend to your father at Vigo's hospital you have privileged conditions in a specific room for you, because if you don't explain... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u44	...what you're doing with the public health of this country. Or if not, Mr. Feijóo... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u46	...I suppose you're going to Fatima, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u47	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u48	I suppose he's going to Fatima to be taken care of, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u50	...if not, they wouldn't do what they're doing with public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u51	Quiet, please. Finish it, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u52	And if you can -- finished, Madam President -- tell us if you're going to get Vigo's hospital back or if you're going to... I'm not lying, it's a certain public fact... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u53	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u54	It's true and public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u55	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u56	It's true and public, well known.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u58	If you want to, you can count on it. If you want to, you can count on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u59	Mrs. Díaz, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u60	If you like, tell the president of the Galician board. Mr. Feiséo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u61	Mrs. Díaz, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u62	...will you rescue the public hospital of Vigo privatized or will you keep doing business, Mr. Feijóo? Will you go on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u63	Mrs. Díaz, your time is up. Mrs. Díaz, your time is up. [[Applause]] The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the more you speak, the more you portray. [[Murmurs.]] I don't think you need to fool the janitors or the hospital janitors. I'm much more of the health counsellor, and the janitors and janitors must rely much more on the health counsellor than on you, who tries to manipulate the entire staff of that hospital. O you, Your Honor! [[Applause]] You and your responsibility! Look, Your Honor, when you talk to me about private health concerts, the Bipartite increased by 45%, and we lowered them by 5.3%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, if the only solution you have is to set up a pentapartite, listen to what the Bipartite does, at least... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u66	...that he learns the same way. Look, Your Honor, in the data on private health by autonomous communities, Galicia is under the average in private spending of concerts of the Public Health Service. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] But you don't care what I tell you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u67	Mrs. Díaz!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u68	You're talking about these public health defenses. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] So what they say is that we used to be the 13th autonomous community as an aid, and now we're the 7th; that is, we're moving from 13th to 7th. Tell me we're going to continue privatizing for next year. You say privatizing is hiring works in a hospital. Yeah, we're going to do the director plan at the Ferrol hospital, we're gonna finish the surgical block at the Coruña hospital... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u69	Mrs. Díaz, I'm gonna call her in order, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u70	...let's finish the hospital hospital in Ourense, let's finish the expansion of the hospital in Salnés, let's start the work of expanding the hospital in the Navy in Lugo. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this is all we're going to do. All this, Your Honor, is what we're doing. Look, you bring me press clippings, and I bring here what the Health Committee at the Central Hospital of Asturias says. By the way, I know that hospital and it's an excellent hospital. There were 700 incidents in the first few months. We've been done for a month or a month, a month! A month has ended the transfer, Your Honor, and it turns out they're busy before the hospital starts, during the hospital run, and now we're merging two hospitals and expanding and putting into running a new public hospital, desecrating the hospital, disparaging professionals and disparaging the Welsh public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u71	Mrs. Hide, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u72	You and your responsibility! Look, you're asking me for the change of the advisor. I renew the Government, a member of the Government, when I consider it appropriate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What I have no doubt about is that you would never be a health advisor to any government. Impossible, Your Honor! They wouldn't even trust you to take public health. [[Murmurs.]] I'm saying that because you have 100% demagogy and 0% management, and to get involved in health care, you have to have less demagogy and know a little more about the country's public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u74	That's what we have to do, Your Honor. We know, yes, that you're perfect. We know you don't have any problems. I heard your leader – I don't know if he's still, Mr. Garzón – who says that Podemos are really a sect. Mrs. Díaz, are you from Podemos or from Left United?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u75	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u76	Mrs. Díaz, you don't even defend your own, how will you defend public health? Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u77	We continue the development of the agenda with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso and two other Members, on the resumption by the Galician Council of negotiations with the Vigo Council to include urban transport Vitrasa in the services of the Metropolitan Transport Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u78	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u79	You have the floor, to formulate the proposal, Mr. Javier Dorado, of the Galician People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u80	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The main objective of today's debate is the inclusion of the Vigo Council and all the beams in the Metropolitan Transport Plan launched by the Galician Council last April of this year. This metropolitan transport plan that can already be enjoyed by all citizens of the Vigo metropolitan area, in the same way that citizens of five other metropolitan areas of Galicia can enjoy, has an average discount of 50% on metropolitan trips and a single ticket system that benefits thousands of travellers every day. In addition, those with about 40 or more trips per month have an additional change of 15%, in addition to other benefits that include members of numerous families, of a normal or special category, in addition to other groups of special difficulty. In total, this metropolitan transport plan seeks to benefit the citizens of the Vigo metropolitan area, which means a total of 14 municipalities. Only 12 of them, 12 of the 14, all except Gondomar and Vigo, have signed the agreement and, therefore, have signed the collaboration on the plan. In this metropolitan transport plan, all types of transport, all means of transport, are included, except one. That means of transport is Vigo's urban transport, which is precisely what our initiative is today. Since April 2015, more than 26,000 cards have been launched, and more than 1,100,000 travels have benefited from this transport plan. Even so, although the Vigo Town Hall has not joined this plan, the vigues can make use of Galician metropolitan card in any of the five metropolitan transport areas that exist, in any one. This means less price, less pollution, more promotion of collective transport against private transport, less traffic and more facilities for all citizens. In 2010. when the Galician Union launched its first metropolitan transport plan, there were 39 municipalities that benefited and those that were incured in some of Galician metropolitan transport areas. Among them, capitals of area as is the case of Coruña, Lugo, Ferrol and Santiago. We're talking about the year 2010. All of them, the four cities he was talking about, the four, had socialist mayors, the four; in the Coruña, as well known, Mr. Losada; in Lugo, Mr. Orozco; in Ferrol, Mr. Irisarri; and in Santiago our companion, Mr. Bugallo. Four mayors of the Socialist Party. Well, in four years the 39 counties benefited became 65, 65 municipalities. But what happened? That in this case there was a municipality, the capital of the Vigo metropolitan area, which is the Vigo Town Hall, which opposed to collaborating, which is opposed to signing the agreement and which, therefore, is prejudging the benefits of metropolitan transport in Vigo and throughout its metropolitan area. We can't forget something that's fundamental, and it's that the Galician Union funds 100% of the transhipment. That means that the cost to the city of Vigo, for all the beams, is that essentially users can pay with the card at the price that the Town Hall marks the card of Vitrasa, which is, in this case, 0.85. Therefore, Galician Union is responsible for 100% – of 100%, I repeat, because this is very important – of the price that the user ceases to fly when it benefits from Galician metropolitan card. It's not the Vigo Town Hall. The Vigo Town Hall, of course, has an annual payment proportional to the number of users who benefit from the card, but it will not entail any additional cost to the Town Hall this done. For two examples, a vicar who goes to Porriño would pay $0.85 for Vitrasa, if he had to take the urban transport, and would pay absolutely nothing for the metropolitan bus. And a neighbor of Cangas who takes the boat would cost 1.30, and when he gets to Vigo, if he has to take the urban transport, he wouldn't have to pay anything at all. This is a plan that really benefits thousands of people, and we're still waiting for an explanation from the Vigo Town Hall that it strongly opposes and constantly signing this plan that would benefit us all absolutely. Well, the Vigo Council's commitment is non-existent, but the Alliance of Galicia's commitment is on the table: it is EUR 16 million that budgets Galicia's board in the Transport Directorate; 16. Of the 16 million euros, 57%, i.e. 10 million euros, will be destined for the metropolitan transport plans of the five metropolitan areas of Galicia, where this plan is already being implemented. In addition to the money, in addition to the investment, there is something very interesting, especially interesting, for the inhabitants of the Vigo Metropolitan area, which is a study to improve the accessibility of urban lines to the city of Vigo. What does that mean? For very simple, what it means is that until today most of the long-distance buses arriving at the city of Vigo made it to the bus station, which, as those who know the city of Vigo will know perfectly, is away from the center, in this case on Madrid Avenue, and what is intended with the realization of this study is that the buses in Vigo have stopped and have better accessibility to the urban center of Vigo, which is, according to existing demand, where more travellers want to take that bus. So, and given what, there is an absolute collaboration and an absolute disposition on the part of the Council of Galicia to renew and resume negotiations with the Vigo Council so that this council joins a metropolitan transport plan, to which they have joined – I repeat – each and every one of the cities in which this plan is underway, all except one, which is, in this case, Vigo. But unfortunately, this is not a single case; it is not the only case where the Vigo Town Hall was absolutely disloyal to the institutional collaboration that must be demanded from each and every one of Galician public institutions, because we have already seen it with the Vigo Metropolitan Area. This very House – the Galician Parliament – in this plenary approved a Vigo metropolitan law; the first metropolitan law that was approved in Galicia, and the mayor of Vigo boycotteouna systematically, systematically! Why did the Mayor of Vigo boycott the Law of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo in 2012? Because simply he could not control it and could not have it at his disposal, but rather, rather than being at his disposal and at his disposal, he was at the disposal of Vigo's citizens and his area. So, what has changed now so that Mr. Mayor of Vigo is in such a hurry to launch the Vigo Metropolitan Area? What's changed? Did it change that now the beams suddenly need that? Did you change that the Vigo Metropolitan Area is going to put mushrooms with dinosaur shapes by the people? What's changed? For what has changed was simply that he now believes he can control the Vigo Metropolitan Area, because he is not interested in Mr. Caballero's benefits that the metropolitan area can have for his citizens. He's not interested in it; he's interested in asserting his political power, trying to control each and every one of the public institutions in which Vigo is involved. Well, despite that, even though it takes three and a half years to push that area, or at least to try to collaborate with that area, the Galician People's Party, the parliamentary group that I represent as a House today, we are going to maintain all the collaboration – I repeat, all the collaboration – to make the Vigo Metropolitan Area available, not for the personal benefit of the Mayor of Vigo, of course not, but for the benefit of the 500,000 citizens of the 14 municipalities of the metropolitan area we are talking about. That is why we believe that this metropolitan transport plan should count on the integration of all, absolutely everyone, of the 14 municipalities that are included, except, as I said before, of the two that have not signed the agreement, which are Gondomar and Vigo. But we know that Vigo, specifically the city of Vigo, because of its circumstances, because he has the hospital, because he has the university, because he has the airport, because he has the port, by its magnitude as city, is one of the most important poles of transport in the area, and therefore we know the capitality of the circumstance we are talking about. So we need to change the chip of the mayor of Vigo, and I think it is important that this Parliament, that this plenary, today represented here, should take this initiative into consideration, because it only wants two fundamental things: first, including Vigo's urban transport in the Metropolitan Transport Plan; and secondly, to end the exacerbated localism of a gentleman who has always put his interests above the interests of citizens, because if we want to build a metropolitan reality we must destroy an exacerbated localism and play against the citizens and the municipalities around him. That's why I would like with this initiative to ask the Vigo Council to do exactly the same as the other municipalities of their magnitude, which is nothing but to make a more economical, more well-favoured and more readily transport for all citizens in their area. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u81	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u82	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Members of this House do not know whether to change the chip of anyone; of course, to defend the interests of citizens and citizens. It is clear that we have a serious public transport problem in the Vigo Metropolitan Area. During this legislation, in different committees, we brought topics like the following, Mr. Dorado: problems that exist with the restriction of lines between Baiona, Gondomar, Nigrán and Vigo; problems that exist – and we also went to visit them with the neighbors themselves – difficulties, by reducing the transport lines and the frequencies between Salvaterra, The Snows, Ponteareas, where the neighbors themselves, and essentially neighbours, who do not have cars, explained the difficulties of accessing Vigo because the restrictions of the lines and schedules were multiple. Why is this debate now? Because, of course – it is very related to the questions to the president that we are asking today from our group – there is a new hospital, and, within the health disaster, of which I will no longer speak, there was no planning that the new hospital should arrive, that it would mean the displacement of many people, both in the city itself and in the entire health area. Only one has to approach the hospital to know the chaos, but absolute circular chaos, which exists at this time, in danger, because, of course, as it is parked anywhere, people are now crossing the road, and there will be a lack of planning. In fact, we need public transport, organized throughout the metropolitan area, but the fact is that if we go there... because the law that you come to defend here makes it very clear in your article 21 that the Council of Galicia is responsible for the public transport of passengers in the metropolitan area. I read, and you explain to me, if not, whose responsibility it is. So here we are proposing that the Galician Parliament should urge the Galician Council to resume negotiations. Is it possible that the Government cannot resume negotiations when it wishes to do something which is within the competence of the Council of Galicia by law, where it clearly states in Article 21(2): "The Council of Galicia shall exercise exclusively the general powers provided for in the sectoral legislation on transport services in the Vigo Metropolitan Area which have traffic with points outside its territorial scope"? You tell me what the problem is. But if the question is that two administrations have difficulty speaking, for they speak, which is their obligation, that the Greek Government feels – we present an amendment – and that, indeed, it is clear, on the table, when that intermodal station is going to be, because we have heard of it! well, time. Because you're talking here about changing bus stops. That's what the Director General of Mobility himself said when we asked him how he thought he was going to get citizenship to Vigo's hospital, if he was teleporting, and he told us there was a plan and we'd meet him. We don't know him yet, there are no schedules or lines on the table. But that intermodal station is absolutely necessary right now. Secondly, we propose that the reformulation of the amounts drawn up by each municipality be based on the same contribution by each user. Third, the Board undertakes to set in motion, within a period not exceeding three months, endowments of lines, which is what interests people, Mr. Dorado. What really worries people is how to get to the hospital, because I don't know if you know the frequencies, the difficulties that there are and the enough itineraries that pass through Vigo's new hospital; not that they leave in the center of Vigo, because from the center of Vigo to Vigo's hospital – and you know it perfectly – there's a time walking, 10 euros in taxi, and important difficulties also for Vitrasa. I mean, it's not easy, if you come from outside, to get there, and if you live in town. And finally, in the not more than three months' time, the Government of Greece is putting in place special bonuses for all metropolitan transport, not only those you have told us here today, but real bonuses, because public transport should be essential in planning a country. People who have economic difficulties, who are unemployed, who have no economic capacity, should have a bonus. That's how we defend him. We understand that this is more an initiative that forgets that what the Government of Greece has to do is to develop the Vigo Metropolitan Area. To propose here a public transport plan. When we have a public transport plan on the table to the Vigo Metropolitan Area we speak, and especially not to the metropolitan area, to the Vigo health area. You open a hospital, a health disaster, but who thought about it in infrastructure? How did they think he was going to get to Vigo's hospital? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Vigo Metropolitan Transport Plan must coordinate urban and urban transport, in addition to having a master plan for dissuasive parking with transfers to the bus. Alfredo Irisarri, of the Transport Commission of the Official College of Road Engineers, numbered 140,000 cars that are turning around the city of Vigo on a daily basis. The President of Fegatravi, the Galaga Federation for Transport of Travelers, quantified a 1% of gross domestic product the loss of hours of work and costs induced to vehicles due to traffic. Of 100% lost working hours, 70% have as a result traffic congestion problems in the city. In addition, it estimates that transferring public transport to private mobility was 20,000 jobs in public transport. I mean, it's not just a transport policy, it's a policy that would lead to job creation, which is calculated at 20,000 jobs. The Metropolitan Plan should resolve the duplication and connection problems between urban transport and interurban transport, as well as boost river transport and improve links to the airport, to the two train stations, and coordinate transport between the two train stations, because it is now impossible to go from one station to another in public transport, unless it is in taxi, and also, as the BNG spokesman now said, is the connection to the new Hospital Álvaro Cunqueriro, something that is an indecency, the traps that exist every day to reach the Cunquero Alvaro. It is authentically indecent the parking problems and how all the situation around the hospital is. The Vigo mayor's decision to restrict the access of Vitrasa's subsidies to citizenship that is not bottled up in Vigo is no more than to punish again the most unprotected and most vulnerable people, people who do not have their own mode of transport, a particular vehicle, or who cannot afford the costs of public transport today if there is no bonus. So the initiative presented today by the People's Party, I do not think that it intends to solve the problem of metropolitan transport in Vigo, and it only wants to use Parliament to promote the bipartisan debate between the People's Party and the Socialist Party in an electoral year. And I'm not willing to be part of that circus. If the People's Party wants to solve the metropolitan transport of Vigo, the Government of the Union that supports it must put the necessary means to ensure that the deployment of metropolitan transport does not entail an insatiable effort for any of the metropolitan area municipalities, nor does it discriminate against any citizen or citizen according to the residence council. The Vigo Council must promote the use of urban public transport for persons living outside the municipality itself but moving to Vigo for reasons of work, studies, health, administrative, commercial, etc.; not only in interest of the social well-being of its area of influence but because it is precisely the influx of people from the metropolitan areas to the city of Vigo which guarantees the economic and social development of the city itself. So they stop using the rights and well-being of citizenship as darts against their political opponent of the bipartisan system. They become political and solve the problems of citizenship, which is already full of so much inefficiencies, inefficiencies and propaganda on the part of governments. It's a shame to present this non-law proposal from the People's Party, because what really denounces is Galician inaction in relation to the rights and interests of the majority of society. So I abstained from this non-law proposal that presents the People's Party in demonstration of rejection of the role that in relation to the metropolitan transport of Vigo have so far developed both the Junta de Galicia and the Vigo Council itself. I'm sorry about the situation, and I hope you'll stop propaganda and join the board to meet your obligation and organize the Vigo Metropolitan Area and the transport of travellers from the Vigo area. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u86	Good morning. Mr. Dorado, we also do not want to be part of a dispute that brings together, I believe, one of the worst vices in this country in the years of democracy, which have failed to make genuine policies of the country. And little is changing in their ranks too so that this country goes from localist disputes to global policies that improve people's lives. We and I personally are clear that, if I lived in Vigo, I wouldn't vote for Mr. Abel Caballero, I don't like his policies or his way of doing politics. But what is clear is that you are obsessed with the figure of Abel Knight politically. That's not my problem. I say you have to change a lot, too, because recently the local governments of Santiago de Compostela and the Coruña have been gathered to coordinate airport policies, bravely, because it's not very common for them to do such actions. The People's Party of the Coruña didn't take a day to react and talk about that the Coruña was doing a gesture of submission to Santiago. So it's impossible to change policies in this country, when some governments have done what other governments have never done – from PSOE and People's Party – means, thinking about the country and thinking less about localism, thinking that the people we live in either the Coruña or Vigo what we want is to be able to travel directly to more destinations, we want to have good prices, good destinations, good conditions, and we don't care where these structures are physically located. We also demand that you have a lot to change, and that you cannot escape, to circumvent your responsibilities in the failure of the country's artillery. You complained at the same time, in the same intervention, that first Mr. Caballero delayed the deployment of the metropolitan area and now complains that he is in a great hurry to implement the metropolitan area. Because he says he now has a correlation of forces in the metropolitan area that allows him to control. Believe the thief that everyone is of his own condition. Of course, that's the case because you also play with those same issues when you do the country's artillery policy. They're playing right now with the distribution of rural development groups and accounting for who's going to control each group. You're doing it now. They're changing if they really want to solve the country's problems. So you failed in this country in the artillery of the metropolitan areas, in the articulation of the country's comarcallization. And that's crucial for this to have been solved – that of metropolitan transport – years ago. You also have to learn how to negotiate and not impose it. Because there are municipalities that are not Vigo who also complain about the conditions of the agreement, there are also municipalities, what happens is that they accept it because they have nothing else left and because they don't want to harm neighbors and neighbors. But it's tax, you don't move a coma of what you want. So to negotiate, you also have to know how to yield; otherwise, it's an imposition. And we know – not from Vigo but from other municipalities – that there would be a lot of things that they would want to change and you don't accept. They impose the times -- they wanted it to be before the elections -- they impose the conditions, they impose the lines, they impose that it's not public, etc. And, therefore, our vote will be the abstention from your initiative, unless you accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, which we would then support. And what we do here is an exhortation that you really change that chip and start to be consistent with what they say in Vigo, what they say in Coruña and what they say in Santiago. We can't penalize those governments who stop localism and are about to make country policies from the People's Party in different cities and now come here to teach that you are the ones who seek the general interest. No, you haven't changed yet, and start by changing your home. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u87	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u88	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. Dorado, they still don't understand anything, really. Didn't the 22nd of May give them enough to say what the vigues and the vigues want? They still don't understand. And, look, either they change your chip or you're missing in Vigo. They're against the beams and the beams, and they're still the same. [[Applause]] And I'm going to say more, they pretend – not from now on – and they want to rule Vigo from June. [[Applause]] And the beams and the beams told them no, 17-7. The vicars told them not, since June, not; the vicars want their government to be elected in Vigo, as it was in the municipal elections by pulling out 17 concellers. And you don't learn, you don't want to learn, and you're going to disappear. You see, metropolitan transport competes 100 percent of Galician union. They have no reason for the municipalities – not Vigo or the small ones – to put a euro. Competition is exclusive to the Galician Union and, as such, it has to order transport. And if you want transport, you have to... because it's true – and the representative of the AGE said before – that there are mayors and mayors today, of those who were elected on the 22nd, who do not agree to be covered. It's more – and I'm going to tell you something I've already told you here, when Mr. Gomez was in another intervention that was about this – the intervener and all the technicians in the Vigo Town Hall were unfavorably informed of the agreement they wanted to make with Vigo. All reports are unfavorable, and you know what it's called? All the reports are against the intervener and the technicians. It is more, you, now that you have suffocated the municipalities – and above all the small ones – want them to continue paying for the transport, which is a competition from the Galician Union. And you always set the example of the Coruña, that there is an agreement that is... look, Vigo's situation is different. That's why I say they don't know each other and they don't want to know each other. Vigo has approved a metropolitan area and, as such, within the metropolitan area, when you start running the metropolitan area, at that time it is in competition with what is the metropolitan area. And in article 21 it says – it's most important, it's what all mayors say at every meeting every day – that what interests the metropolitan area, apart from what water is, is metropolitan transport. That'll be competition when the metropolitan area is built. But, look, where it's already, where it goes beyond everything, it's in the cynicism that the People's Party has about the metropolitan area of Vigo. First, they wanted to do a metropolitan area where the representative of the peace of Borbonne – with all my respect to the peace of Borbonne, or Fornelos, who is my partner, who is the smallest municipality – had the same vote as the representative of the Vigo Town Hall. Look, we make allegations, and I want to deny here an interview and a statement that Mrs. Muñoz was making. It's a lie we didn't introduce them. We have made allegations to the Metropolitan Area Law saying... now the mayor and Mr. Núñez Feijóo have reached agreement. But, look – I said before – cynicism is entrepreneurial, that of the People's Party. You see: "The law of the metropolitan area that is promoting Knight must be cut off from its roots and not remain silent."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u89	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u90	Do you know who said that? A gentleman sitting next to you, Mr. Moreira, Mr. Jacobo. That's what he said a few days ago, on the 24th. You're a cynical politician! They're real political cynics! Yes, yes, I don't say personal, but politically yes, they use cynicism on this subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And as they do, I tell them... yes, they do, and they still do. [[Murmurs.]] And, look if this isn't cynicism that Mrs. Muñoz, a lady who was sitting there, there, there, in that blue chair, member of the Government, now says "Muñoz defends more weight to Vigo in the metropolitan area." But do they want to take our hair, do they want to make us crazy? It's incredible! He has no explanation, he has no explanation for his attitude to Vigo, they have a tele-directed behavior, like Teleneques, since Galician Union. And that... yes, teledirected, like the Teleneks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u91	Finish it, Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u92	Then, as you can see, I am fully convinced that they will disappear. Of course, we're going to vote against it and we want it to be put into operation as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u94	...the Vigo Metropolitan Area. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u95	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Dorado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u96	Thank you very much, President. I will review the proposal made by this group, which is to urge the Council of Galicia to resume negotiations with the Vigo Council to include the urban transport of Vitrasa within the services of the Metropolitan Transport Plan. That's going to vote against the Socialist Party today. Curious, Mr. Gallego! It's funny that you don't want to include the Vigo Town Hall in the Metropolitan Transport Plan, it's curious. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I'll tell you that there are twelve twelve city council speakers who said they were in favour of this agreement. How curious that only one says otherwise! that, by the way, he did not say so and is the first of his lies. In any case... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u97	Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u98	...as Mrs. Adán said – who has focused much of her intervention on the issue of Vigo hospital – would I like to say that today 20 municipalities in the Vigo health area have direct transportation to the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, 20. It's the best public transport coverage that exists in any of Galician hospitals, therefore, everything is improved, since it's improved, in terms of frequencies and other issues. [[Murmurs.]] But I saw 20 municipalities with direct transport, not passing through the center, but directly. Another question concerning your amendment – which, by the way, I appreciate your work – is the intermodal station. Well, the Galician Board has presented some budgets in which the intermodal station will have a prominent part in its accounts to precisely drive the installation of that station, which we've been asking for time. And, according to Vigo's general urban plan of 2008, the Town Hall has to make some access in order to do it, and, of course, nothing has been done about it yet. Mr. Sánchez, to please Mr. Caballero, you make a stronger defense of the Knight than the socialist spokesman himself. I'd like to explain to you that what we ask here is precisely to negotiate, that is to negotiate, not to impose, that is to negotiate, that the board negotiates with the Town Hall. Don't you know what's wrong? I don't know what's wrong with you exacting the Vigo Town Hall the same thing as demanding the other municipalities, the Coruña, the Lugo, Santiago...? What's wrong with asking him to sign that agreement with the same criteria? I don't really see anything wrong with you. Mrs. Martínez, you were talking about the problem that exists on many occasions between train stations, for example, and the connection to the airport, etc. For that, two questions I would like to highlight. First, the budgets of the Galician Union for 2016 include, as I said in the first intervention, a study of the accessibility of the interurban lines in the Vigo hull and also around, i.e., where the airport, the port, etc. And secondly, there are issues of urban transport, and the deficits that exist, because there are, in urban transport, not only with the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro but also with the airport and other infrastructures of the city, that is municipal competition and therefore we, like Junta de Galicia, cannot ask for it. Now, in short, we want to ask the Vigo Council exactly the same thing as any Galician council, which is collaboration. Because, as Mrs. Adán said, in accordance with Article 21 of the Vigo metropolitan area and according to the competences of the Transport Unit, the Union is pushing an agreement, a metropolitan transport plan. But without the collaboration and the help of the municipalities, it's impossible to put it into action. And what we asked for is exactly that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u100	...cooperation and assistance, cooperation, negotiation. And I do not understand how the opposition can be abstaining – and in the case of the Socialist Party – because it is something of a common sense in which you will be portrayed again. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u101	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary for the maintenance of employment and production in the plants of Alcoa da Coruña and San Cibrao, as well as the demand to the central government to modify the regulatory framework for electricity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u102	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u103	You have the floor to Mrs. Adam to make her proposal not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u104	Yes, thank you, President. Good day again. I also want to greet the representatives of the workers who accompany us today, because we are going to talk about a topic that has to do with jobs, industrial fabric in Galicia and a strategic sector for our economy, such as the energy sector, of which we have talked on repeated occasions and the position that the Nationalist Block holds in this respect is well known. Today we're going to talk about a key issue for our economy. What do we use to be electricity producers? What benefit does Galicia have for its surplus electricity production? That is the question of debate. We can see news like the recent month of September: "The Alcoa plant in San Cibrao is saved, but the future of the Coruña is unknown." Or also, recently and on the same line, "A round business in Alcoa in Spain when workers and workers are demanded not to be held hostage to the interests of the company in negotiating with their jobs." Because, of course, the problem here is how business competitiveness is understood. And I want to remind you that in Galicia there is something called the Competitiveness Agenda. But when we look at the data, according to this group, energy costs represent the second most important cost category, after the staff, for the Greek companies. Of course, energy costs in the Spanish State are about 10% above the European Union average. So energy spending, electricity spending, in the Spanish state puts that price at the 8th most expensive price in the European Union, while in families, as you well know, is the third – to companies is the eighth –. That makes us come across reports like a recently published one, where it is seen that the price of light rose in Spain twice as much as in the European Union during the crisis. That is the agenda for competitiveness that Mr Feijóo and the People's Party understand. So we have to add that when we talk about Alcoa, we're talking about intensive processes that consume a very high percentage of electricity. In 2013 it is changed, with a new system, the adjudication regulation of what is called "interruptibility", which allows – in parentheses – economic savings to companies that have a great electrical consumption. But since it was predictable already at that moment, and from which we have already given account and now we have just confirmed it, this is a perverse mechanism that therefore has perverse consequences. First, there's an annual rush like a species, we're going to call it a Russian roulette, which calls into question the investments that are going to be made by the industries themselves, because they depend on the price of energy itself. This method also causes unfair competition between companies in the same production sector, which from the start of this system have different prices for electricity. And another of the evil effects is that it may be useful to some company that intends to close or reduce productive centers, because it will be easy to argue that given the price of electricity it has to take forward redundancies; which is a practice that we are sadly watching in Galicia these last two years. So our question is, if Euskadi was able to put on an own industrial tariff, which means an estimated annual saving of about 50 million euros for his businesses, why is Galicia, why is this so, so quiet? In any case, he uses that modality that is laity. When there is a problem, it cries out; when there is a problem with Alcoa it also complains and adds to the good wishes, but it does not act as such government to actually achieve an effective commitment to a reduction in the electricity tariff for large consumers, in this case to Alcoa. We are absolutely aware of the problem and the situation of workers. We voted in favour of motion for a resolution No. 7 recently adopted unanimously by this Parliament, a motion for a resolution which is tabled as an amendment by the People's Party and the Left Glaga Alternative. But today we want to go a little further. We want you to actually criticize yourself, if you stop using that interruptability system, because we don't think it's the right thing to do. And, therefore, what we propose to debate is, on the one hand, a firm commitment to the maintenance of jobs by the German Government. And how does this commitment materialize? By calling on Madrid, at the second point, to two basic questions: firstly, a reduction in the rate of light in the Spanish State, which ceases to exist that single tariff, and which is reflected in the benefits of being surplus to Galicia. As already, on the other hand, they contemplate Euskadi. Because the single rate has already broken into the last law of the electricity sector. So let's ask that again. And also, the second paragraph to urge the State, is that, in fact, if this system is changed, that it is not pending from that point of view, but that it is made through a stable relationship that allows companies not to play with jobs and that it requires them, in addition, through those conventions for the price of electricity, to maintain jobs – which is one of the requirements and conditions – and also to make improvements and investments in their businesses, on their bases. Because, of course, the problem is that Alcoa doesn't make the necessary investments and then she's playing with workers and workers. But here the Government can act, the Government can and must act in this direction. This is a very clear, very clear example of what a Greek electric tariff means, which we have seen insistently demanding and submitting to the debate in this Parliament. Because jobs are at stake, industrial production is at stake, competitiveness is at stake, and they are at stake – especially for us most important – clear commitments to this country's industry. That is why, as I say, to take the employment measures, demand a 30% bonus in the tariffs and replace the break-up rate by the definitions of competitive long-term supply contracts for large consumers. And in those competitive supplies and in those contracts, you have to pray clearly what are the commitments to investments and commitments to maintaining employment. We certainly support the motion for a resolution. We expect the political groups in this House to support this initiative, because they look not in the morning, but in the long run, so that, in fact, we can maintain Galicia's industrial fabric; otherwise, we'll be back in a few months by falling back and playing with people's jobs that if they don't go out on the street, they can't keep those jobs. I hope this initiative has been explained. For us the energy sector is central, and we still don't understand how it is possible for the People's Party to leave Galicia in this respect. If we're electricity producers, why don't we have a single benefit from that production. Let the People's Party out here and explain why. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u106	Good morning again. For the truth is that this is one of the most certainly important themes in our country; firstly, because we are talking about 600 jobs affected by people with families and we are talking about, in addition, a region that undoubtedly needs the maintenance of these jobs in the Comarca de Coruña, therefore a central element. I certainly agree with the rapporteur's reflection on this block initiative. The thing is, perhaps, going to the root of things, we'd have to remember that the problem of what's going on today, Mrs. Adam, is having privatized what was the old Inespal. It's very interesting. I mean, if we go to the root of things about that palliative measure that you incorporate in respect of the Greek electric tariff, which is very interesting about the subject, and that is, without question, relevant to this country, and that we will have to give together, it is true that the problem that you have today Alcohol from of course to us is to go to the root of things, and it's fair to ask what the workers are asking these days, which is to nationalize the company. In fact, we're done with these issues as we're done. The liberalisation of the energy sector that was sold to us by the law of 1997 was a lie, it was no use for anything they were selling to us. And the truth is, right now, what really touches, after living what we've lived through, is to rescue that company from the collective of citizens and citizens of this country, if we really want to go to the root of things. First of all, without any doubt, you were talking about the fact that public reports are showing that there are two costs that are hindering, they are impeding, the process of maintenance of industries in our country. The first of them, financial costs; the second of them, energy costs. The data that I have – I don't know whether I understand it well – is that right now the data on staff costs in companies is being residual, the procedure has been reversed, or the staff costs have been changed exactly as far as the problems they have today, with public reports, the companies themselves. But then the energy cost data are decisive for the maintenance of jobs. And secondly, indeed, what we are dealing with here, and that is what the workers are asking us to do with an immediate nature – that I do not mediate, with an immediate character – is to guarantee the maintenance of jobs, is urgency. And secondly, what they move us – and then again, the amendment we make – is the industrial plan to really define the future of Alcoa. Because it's not a joke, Mrs. Adam, and you know it, I know it. It's not a joke and we can really take a high risk. And thirdly, what are they asking us to do? That we denounce what the People's Party is doing, because the People's Party has committed itself to a series of things that, as you know, are failing. For example, on July 9, 2015, this same year, the 90 megawatt blocks for large energy consumers. And indeed, they cheated this country again, because they even sold fewer blocks than they had authorized, less blocks than last year. Exactly nine 90 megawatt blocks. They're altering their commitment to their own company. And secondly, the problem we have is the norm itself; that is, we can't just subject to a company that is permanently subject to or subject to annual mail companies to do this. Because, indeed, the interests in Saudi Arabia are too powerful, Mrs. Adam, too powerful for this company, and certainly the absent Counsellor, who now has the job functions, cares little about this debate, which, we insist, is a matter relevant in the Coruña district, is very relevant in our country as a whole and is very relevant at the root of the problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u107	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u108	And going to the root of the problems, we're asking to nationalize that company. Without cutting a hard one, directly, as the workers and workers ask. If he does not accept the amendment, which I understand is yes, even though it was adopted by Resolution No. 7 in the debate of the nation's own state, we will of course vote in favour of it, but knowing that the immediate cause of what we now have is that he is at risk of losing those jobs. And from going to the root of the problems, of course, we would urge the nationalization of the company. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. People's Group. Mr. Trenor Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u110	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Allow me a license. And they don't think I'm breaking up with this with the separation of powers. Both the People's Party and the Greek Government are on the side of the Alcoa workers because their demands are reasonable and shared, shared by my group and the Galician Union, on three fundamental aspects: maintaining productive activity, maintaining jobs and providing greater stability to the system of interruption. So our position is an amendment to the text of the seventh resolution, adopted unanimously in the debate on the state of autonomy. I don't know what changed from twelve days ago here to justify you breaking up with this unanimous agreement of this Parliament. We will continue to maintain that agreement. Mrs. Díaz, what you say is no surprise to us, since you have ambiguous and contradictory positions. On the one hand, they ask for one thing one day, and on the other, they ask for another. Today they ask to guarantee activity and jobs, but the next day you will ask for the closure of the thermal plants of Meirama, The Bridges, The Fire, Reganosa, Elnosa, which meant the loss of more than 15,000 jobs; that 15,000 Greeks and the Greeks would lose their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, going to the bottom and what really matters, the best energy policy is to achieve a secure, reliable, sustainable and competitive electrical system. Let it be competitive – it seems now that we are beginning to want competitiveness for our productive and economic system, when it seemed to be a crime to talk about competitiveness – it has two major effects. On the one hand, it makes electricity accessible to all citizens, and does not become, for errors in political planning, a luxury for families. On the other hand, if electricity is competitive, it facilitates economic activity, allows these increases in competitiveness to be transferred to greater economic activity, to more employment, to more investment, and, of course, to higher wages. Electrical prices in the industrial sector remained relatively stable between 2012 and 2014, according to Eurostat data. This year it seems that this stability will be maintained, and it is likely that in the coming days there will be significant reductions in electricity prices. Of course, this contrasts with the sharp rise between the years 2004 and 2011, when the price of electricity grew by about 115 percent, increasing more than twice the price of electricity. Gentlemen of the Nationalist Block, the electrical system must be unique and equitable not only from an economic point of view, but also from a technical point of view, ensuring its efficiency. It is true that Galicia is a great power producer of electricity, of course yes!, and this assumes, by itself, important benefits to our society. Benefits in terms of jobs, benefits in terms of economic activity, and also, of course, in terms of collection, which allows us to have more and better public services. But you know, Your Honor, that as a result of the demographic dispersal, of our country's orography, of climatelogy and also of land ownership, the transport and distribution costs here are higher than elsewhere; but we pay the same price as any consumer in the rest of the state, and that's what you don't talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, to end in this context, the German Government has worked to ensure that Spain and Galicia integrate into a single European electricity market which guarantees a supply to households and businesses in greater conditions of efficiency, security and competitiveness. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, some of the opposition groups think only of an isolated Galicia, which is torn apart by agreements, and are looking for confrontation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u111	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u112	I announce that I will support this initiative. I believe that concrete action is possible, it defends employment and defends Galicia's rights as a producer and surplus of electricity, so I will give you my support. In addition, as the Korean industry has better services and better energy rates, it will see how it also improves its competitiveness. The association of energy-intensive companies has long claimed an electric supply that has a regulation that guarantees competitiveness, stability and predictability of price. I am now surprised by the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party, because it says that in 2013-2014 the price remained stable and that in 2015 it "seems" that too. So companies are going to see that it looks like this year, because maybe it changes us in half a year, but how it looks... actually, what I think is an indecency is that we have two companies in Galicia with hundreds of jobs in danger, a very important industry for our country, and that we've taken time in this Parliament, giving it around and there's no solution. Really, I think if I were a worker from Alcoa, I'd have an impressive goat with the Galician Union for not defending the Galician industry, for not defending the interests of our industry and the maintenance of jobs in our country. For industries like Alcoa, energy spending can account for 50% of its total cost. It's an aberration, and it's a real crazy thing. Between 2007 and 2014, one third of aluminium production in Europe has disappeared, which is taking China and third countries. So we're with an anti-country policy. We are no longer producing and therefore buying products that are manufactured in our country, or products that are produced in our country, to import, simply because our government, the Greek Government, does not in any way want to defend the interests of Galicia in front of the Government of the State, simply obeys. As the spokesperson for BNG said, we have the highest energy price for the industry across Europe, far above Germany or France, which discourages new investments and leads to the competitiveness of the Galician industry. And much more in a country like ours, peripheral, where just transporting industrial products is more expensive, and there's no kind of compensation. But more and more voices demand not only a stable framework for these companies, but also that the surplus territories and which export energy have a bonus for all the deterioration that these electrical installations bring into the territory that produces energy, and in our country we know perfectly well what concords are. In Galicia there are 52 cheers in our rivers for electric production, and after that, of the destruction of this territory nobody benefits in this country, they benefit Catalonia and Madrid fundamentally, who are the biggest importers, but who pay for energy as we do while they keep their rivers in perfect conditions, without encouragement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u113	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u114	...and their mountains without the mills and other electrical installations that damage the territory. So my time is over, but I support this non-law proposal because I think that this peripheral character should be compensated, it must meet the needs of the Welsh industry. In addition, another reflection – it is to be closed – said that the costs in Galicia are high by the orography itself. We are presenting in this Parliament not going to say a thousand, but many initiatives for the Union to support the mini-elics, to support the small facilities. Don't do it. Uh,uh,uhhhh! 'Cause co'uh,uh,uhhhh! You're the one they want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u115	Mrs. Martínez, don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u116	...is to keep doing business for Fenosa Natural Gas, and they care as little about the Welsh industry as they care about the Greek people. You are the obedient of Madrid and Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u118	...and, therefore, anti-Palestinian Government. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u119	Socialist Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to greet the representative of the Alcoa workers. The truth is, I stayed a little quiet. The People's Party, at least, did not end up suggesting that energy in Galicia costs us more because we have mountains and we have the population scattered. That's how we got here! Because, as the discourse advanced, I thought that the conclusion, the corollary of the theorem, would be that as God's hand scattered us through the territory and there are mountains, we have to pay more also for divine design. And I was surprised by another thing, Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party, that you talk about equity is no longer an oximone in full swing. But well, each one, of course, makes the speeches he considers. The Socialist Group will support this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which, on the one hand, is a concrete issue, a concrete business, a specific sector, and on the other hand, what is the energy generation and the cost of energy in this autonomous community. And the truth is that the line of action, the road map, the governments of the People's Party... I quote the papers again. Yesterday, Spain's Ministry of Industry and Electrical Network boosted wind energy in the Canary Islands. Home!, probably something has to do with the islander condition of the archipelago, but an important part probably also has to do with the geographic origin of the Minister of Industry himself. It would be very good... yes, if I'm sure – I understand that you vote for you – but I would almost bet something that this bet on the wind energy, that's so expensive in terms of renewables in the Canary Islands, something to see has the geographic origin of Mr. Soria, beyond that he spends vacations on other islands too at certain low prices. The Spanish energy market, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that, you know, the European Union – I have already said here the other day that I am truly anxious to hear the Government of Spain's official speech at the Paris Climate Summit, because I want to see what they say after these four years of government – has some fundamental distortions. By the way, fundamental distortions are generated, on the one hand, by paying – as you well know – absolutely amortised installations, hydroelectric and nuclear, at market prices – as you, I insist, well know – and on the other hand, by continuing to pay those costs of transition to competition, which, of course, seeing the financial results of electrical companies, it is clear that, if there were costs, they are already exceeded, because the benefits are growing year by year. And we go back to the other one, the competition of a company that has benefits in a systematic way. So, undoubtedly, what we are talking about here is the economic model in terms of energy, a model in which the Government defends the interests of the big electricians; and this, in the case of Galicia, basically affects a highly intensive industry in the use of energy and makes this company lose competitiveness – it is something objective –. Faced with this, the Government of Greece is neither expected nor expected, beyond good statements; I insist that political declarations either materialize in budgets and under political pressure itself or serve nothing, except for the deputy advisor or President Feijó to fill a page of the newspapers. Because of what we are talking about here, ladies and gentlemen, it is about politics and economic interests; and as Alcoa, moreover, has an installation in Avilés and the president of the board has talked proly about Asturias in the previous intervention, he has forgotten to tell a story of that hospital in Asturias, which had problems when it was put into operation, which is public, that this left-wing Government of the Principality of Asturias has not paid companies four times the cost of the project to build that hospital – plus to swallow private loans for the companies that are building or that have built the Álvaro Cunquero de Vigo hospital–. That little difference, which seems to me, seeing the intensity of the applause of the popular Members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u121	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u122	... – finished, Madam President – it seems that the popular Members – seeing the intensity and prolongation of the applause – did not perceive, is what differs on the right of the left, the difference between the business results accounts – in this case of Actoa –. Yes, yes, I say it clearly, loud and proud. [[Murmurs.]] What's different to the right of the left: the results accounts of companies and those who don't like to hear it come out here and defend the opposite; because, Mr. Farínas, Actosa is not an oenevo. [[Applause]] By the way, it doesn't have to be, huh? It doesn't have to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u124	...but it's a company and it has benefits, and those benefits we pay them in this case the users of Vigo's health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u126	...as in other cases – finished, Madam President – they are paid by the Alcoa workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Author group, you have the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u128	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mr. Trenor, you confuse being with duty. It says here that the tariff has to be unique; no, that's called naturalist fallacy, that confusion. In, exactly, Germany, Switzerland and Great Britain there is no single rate – for catching European countries – there is no such thing as not having to exist here; it depends on the will, what it must be and what you want, and you don't want to, you don't want to support the Greek electric tariff. Therefore, I want to make it clear to the amendment tabled by the People's Party and to the one tabled by the Left-wing Galician Alternative, because it is the one which we all approve as a motion for a resolution, that: "The Greek Parliament urges the Union to demand from multinational Alcoa the commitment of maintenance and productive activity of the corrupt factory, with its correlation of maintenance of all jobs, with the definition of an industrial plan guaranteeing the necessary investments, and in a framework of collaboration by the Galician Union to realize a new stable system of prices that favours the continuity of companies that are consumers of electricity." This has already been voted by the BNG, with which it must not be voted twice, it is passed and this is a mandate that the Government has to do. What we present today – and if Alternative Left-Galga presented nationalization –... we have no problem because we have already defended in this forum the electricity – which is indeed the result of this problem – and we also defend nationalization Pescanova – with very little success, by the way, for this House, and we would have been better off if we had really waged for nationalizing companies. Since that is not the proposal, we cannot vote for it – I am sorry, Mrs Díaz – what we have maintained is our initiative: jobs yes, but electric tariffs and, above all, change the system of interruption; because that is the real problem, and there we must urge Madrid – we would like it, of course, as BNG, that it could change the German Government, and that is what we aspire to –. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the new investment restriction policy announced by the Volkswagen Group on the automotive component sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u130	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u131	Mr. Losada has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. We continue to move in politics and the economy, economic activity, economic interests. The truth is, the response, the flexibility of administrations in responding to economic challenges, in many unanticipated cases, is what marks levels of governance, the effectiveness of an administration. I'm going to talk today, exactly, about how I think I should deal with the Government of Galicia which is a clearly unforeseen problem, such as the so-called dieselgate or the forgery or the CO2 emissions trickery by multinational Volkswagen engines. We all know that – I insist – the need to respond to what appears as a crisis scenario... Of course, the German Government – it is true that the intensity of Volkswagen's presence is different in Germany and in the auxiliary of the driving in Galicia, which is what I want to talk about – but the German Government reacted immediately, immediately; the Spanish Government, the trail. The Socialists at the Congress of Deputies requested the presence of the Minister of Industry and, again, we see that he was in the Dominican Republic, in this suite seventy euros a night – that is what they have these pages of travel, that they always find an offer – and he did not appear at the Congress of Deputies, because he considers that, given that we have in Nafarroa and that we have in Catalonia factories of Volkswagen, so that we will appear! There's another example that has to do with driving, and I'm going to bring it to the speech, because it demonstrates the slowness of this response to the continuances of economic activity. The other day – when I say the other day on Monday – Deutsche Bahn's subsidiary of the German railway company in Spain Transfesa said he was looking for two ports, one in the Atlantic and the other in the Mediterranean to –or either through the Suez channel or via the Panama channel – exporting German manufacturing cars that would come down to these Spanish ports and from here would move to different markets. One of the ports they were fighting is that of Vigo. Yesterday he took possession of the new president of the port authority of Vigo, accompanied by the President of the Board of Galicia and the Minister of Development of the Government of Spain. They made – as it cannot be otherwise – political opposition to the mayor of Vigo, but to take advantage of this economic opportunity to increase port activity in the city of Vigo, and to increase, therefore, in terms of multiplier effects, what is the creation of employment and wealth, not a word; because they were doing politics, they were defending the interests of the People's Party, and why should we worry about these small continences that arise in economic life day by day? Unfortunately, this is the scenario in which the politicians of the People's Party, in this case both of the Government of Spain and of the Government of Galicia, move. In the case of Volkswagen, the automotive industry in Spain acts as a fruit of what is its own Franchise protectionism, that is: the large European factories realize that they cannot sell in free market conditions and enter and install factories in Spain – Citroën in Galicia in 1958, in the port of Vigo–. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the socialists – beyond the problems that always exist in a complex productive fabric, and that the interests of capital and work are contradictory in many situations, and that politics has to be there to help solve these contradictions – in general terms we can talk about economic and business success: the Citroën factory is the second productive installation of the PSA group on the planet, and it was also able to achieve something that is not always achieved, which is going to happen from what would be an enclave facility to create an economic fabric of auxiliary industries, which no longer only serves the factory itself, but supplies to many other car manufacturers in the world. Successful internationalization, successfully technologically successful, with companies that generate thousands of jobs. We're talking about the great industrial pole of the referential industrial sector of this autonomous community. I insist that, beyond the time-consuming problems – which exist – beyond the competence of Morocco and Portugal, which is leading the downward wage trend and that we, of course, do not share – always defend here in this forum, and always defended the Socialist Party, that competition between companies must come for innovation and have to come for modernization, and not lowering wages. But the fact is that an economic fabric has been created with a certain amount of solvency, with a high level of international competitiveness and is therefore in a position to compete. This sector, of course the first customer is the PSA group, the second customer is the Renault group, but the third client is already the Volkswagen group – as you know, Audi, Volkswagen, Skoda and Seat, fundamentally beyond some other brand –. Therefore, what is announced by Volkswagen from a cut of nearly EUR 4 billion this year alone in investments planned in its global network of production centres, is evident to anyone who thinks a little – it doesn't need to be economic advisor to industry, it doesn't need to be the economic guru of the President of the Union, nor does it need to be the President of the Union – of course it will affect in a manner relevant to this German economic fabric. And it's also true that it's an unforeseen fact, it's true that it didn't have to be reflected in budgets, that I always defend as a roadmap of what has to be a Government, but it's also true that a Government has to have enough flexibility to be able to deal with these kinds of issues. And, in fact, it's not just that the Socialist Group or this spokesman says it, that the manufacturers themselves of automotive components in Galicia have already announced it, they have already declared their alarm before the review of Volkswagen's investments for 20 Greek suppliers, who are companies in addition to many workers, we are talking about companies – given what is Galicia's industrial fabric – on the top of the table, companies over the 500 workers – I repeat: for our scale, we could almost say that large companies –. The Greek manufacturers say that they are playing around 1,100 million euros of business figure if actually Volkswagen takes forward this cut you announced, and that in addition everything seems that you will have to carry it forward because the cost that you are having in terms of stock exchange quote and in terms of reputational capital of the company is being so high – without counting future compensation – that, of course, you will have to produce or carry forward cuts in production. Well, in this context -- I insist -- unfortunately neither the president of the board, nor the councillor Count, nor the general director of the Igape have said anything in the last two weeks since this scandal broke out. Not a single word. I don't know what you've talked about with the component industry, I don't know what you've negotiated, I know that the general manager of Igape, in these market search visits -- with all my respect, every Government has its internationalization strategy -- was last weekend in Cuba; it's true that there's an economic opening that can lead to an increase in business, but I insist: it's not the main market for this country. I am glad, of course, of the visit you are visiting today, today in Germany visiting Siemens, and the company Miele, essentially the world leaders of industry 4.0. I think it's very well, methodologically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u133	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u134	...to start, before selling the bike, asking those who know how things are done because, if not, the problem is that then the bike you sell most likely doesn't work. So, welcome in this case to the economic rationality of industrial policymaking. Before you make PowerPoints here and give press wheels in San Caetano, we're going to see what they're doing in the world that goes in terms of economic history ahead -- BNG's voicer said before in terms of energy. Indeed, there is no categorical Kantian imperative and no theological basis for electrical energy to have a unique tariff in states – in fact, there are many states where it does not have it, like it does not have gas oil, or have no other energy sources –. So we can even defend the single tariff, for many reasons, but it would be good, in even intellectual terms, to know what those reasons are – because I repeat again, theology is probably not the best way to discuss economics and employment –.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u135	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u136	Finished, Madam President. So what we are proposing here is, in collaboration with the economic agents, that the Union will stop thinking and design a plan, precisely, to minimize the impact of the crisis that accompanies this economic sector. Because – I repeat again – beyond private contacts, this Member and this group are not told by the German Government to move a single sheet on this subject, and we speak of many... And I insist, Mr. Puy, that – taking into account the fact that this government is in the press rounds, the PowerPoint and the PP department, "advertising and propaganda"–,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u138	...I confess that, if they're doing so well, I'm sure they will then vote for the initiative, but I also express my legitimate scepticism. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u139	Intervention of the groups. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u140	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, it seems a lie that we're still so innocent, you haven't gone to Siemens to learn, you could say how to do things, how to do less and how to increase competitiveness, because, if you look at the situation of Galicia and the good that has been with the Government of the People's Party for the past seven years... to teach! Well, I'm really going to support this initiative, I'm conditioning that the first part of my amendment is accepted – I'm going to explain why – but, above all, it's because of the impact it has on a sector so important in our country, in a sector so important for the region of Vigo as it is the automotive sector and at a time when the situation caused by the Volskwagen case will seriously affect many of the Galician companies, especially the companies of components – for example, Faurecia, which is dedicated to the manufacture of components, accumulates an 11.45% fall in stock since this conflict; GKN, of 7% and Baleo of 4%–. I mean, he's already having repercussions and, as Mr. Losada said, Junta seems like he's not even there and it's better not to be expected because he's not seen any initiative. But it will also affect all the commitments that were made between Volkswagen and component manufacturers in order to make the pieces that would cover the investment commitments that Volkswagen had for its Seat factories in Martorell and Volkswagen in Pamplona. So what is needed and what seems incredible is that we have to come from the opposition to ask Parliament and Parliament to act and work to see how it minimizes the effects of this crisis among the more than twenty European automotive companies that will be affected by this problem. Since Volkswagen is the third best customer of the Welsh automobile – after PSA-Citroën and Renault-Nissan, it is the third – we are therefore already facing a situation of serious crisis in a sector that has already been experiencing a serious crisis from which it was beginning to emerge. The Volkswagen Group in addition, for example, helped Copo with the fabric for the roofs of Skoda Octavia that will be manufactured by Seat in the Martorell factory; with which, if this investment is made in Martorell, Copo also loses that commitment to work and, therefore, we will have problems keeping jobs in the Welsh automotive sector. The importance of the cluster of automobiles is clear when it's recognised, when it's said to generate more than 21,050 direct jobs, and it's 12% of Galicia's industrial employment. The invoicing of companies belonging to Ceaga exceeds EUR 7.340 million, which amounts to 13% of gross domestic product. That is why we need to anticipate the consequences of this crisis in the automotive sector. I agree, I said that I would vote for this initiative if I accepted the first part of my amendment, because, although I agree that the solution has to come by consensus between the Administration and the automotive cluster, I believe that in that consensus must be the most representative trade union organizations; because, if the trade unions are not represented in that consensus, the solution will always be that of lay-offs, part-time contracts, pay cuts and loss of social rights. It is therefore essential that trade unions form part of this agreement and that would be an undeniable point in my amendment. In addition, I am presenting another part of this amendment for the establishment of the specific support line for the automotive component sector to be linked to the maintenance of employment; it cannot be that companies continue to receive public money and, in exchange for that public money, continue to destroy stable employment and continue to worsen the working and wage conditions of the workers and the workers in Greece. And to finish, I added a fifth point that talks about promoting regulated vocational training in the automotive sector, coordinating with the sector the continuing training of workers and workers and with the public centers themselves, and also that student without work experience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u142	...–Finished – practices in companies. One second nothing more, President, please. It is about taking advantage of vocational training centres to retrain active workers and, at the same time, while these active workers are in line with regulated classes, regular training, training in FP centres, training in companies, which enriches both of them and is a model that is already being used in other countries with great success.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u144	Nothing else, thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u145	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u146	Yes, thank you, President. We are debating an initiative of great interest right now, as we know today that there are more than 3,000 million losses – which, of course, puts the situation of the Volkswagen Group at the moment, because I suppose in a very delicate situation that economic analysts will assess. So it's surprising that the Government isn't here, nor is it even here - we assume that the counselor will be listening or reading after the Session Diary. Of course, the situation in addition to driving in the province of Pontevedra, where it focuses primarily, is a 20% drop in employment in recent years – 20% of employment! – including the last year in which there is a slight recovery of employment in other sectors; therefore, about 20% of job losses we can see in a situation – as Mrs Martínez has already explained – of very important job destruction. We therefore believe that this initiative is important, and we also see that the amendment to the maintenance of jobs when specific support lines are established should be fundamental. But I believe that the fundamental point of this debate is that it establishes itself with the cluster a strategy, which includes the perspective of the unions, of course, and that the Greek Government acts as such preventing the situation and, at this moment, having a relationship with the cluster and with the unions – because it is very difficult, in the face of the economic losses and the great scam that led forward to Volkswagen, which at this time does not feel the whole area of the automotive industry –. If we have to add a very complicated next year to a 20% job loss, this should of course be the initiative that the People's Party had taken today – or the advisor himself should be coming to explain it. We are going to support this initiative, whether the amendments are incorporated or whether the rapporteur leaves it as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u148	Good day to all and all. I agree with the statement made by my colleague Abel Losada, to which I pay great attention, but it is true that we cannot share a part of what is requested to be voted on in this Parliament. So I'm going to ask you to take a separate vote and explain why. By agreeing to your verbal analysis, when you move to writing, there are some questions that we cannot share from our position. But I wanted to do first an analysis of why this situation is happening, because here we forget that Volkswagen is committing a crime that has three axes that should be on the table, and that the authorities – if they were not simply to guarantee the benefits and economic capacity of multinationals – would have to say something. A crime that has three very complex aspects: the first, an ecological crime that endangers the health and life of many people affected by the increase in production of these vehicles that were called up; an economic crime, because I was supposed to sell people a question that was not real; and then, of course, a crime of threatening the confidence of the European economy as a whole with decisions linked to the commitments that this industry had with the European Union. So, except for nighttime, their action has everything and should therefore already be the subject of deep research and that governments act against a multinational who deceives the whole of citizenship. So that's a first context we should consider. It is clear that this has a very important impact on employment in the whole of Europe, in Spain and also in Galicia – especially in the auxiliary of the state of Pontevedra's automobile. And we agree to put forward a strategy to minimize this impact, we agree to support research, we agree to encourage the training of workers, but we cannot agree on capital injection lines in the Galician Union for internationalization. And we're going to explain why: because, for example, Mr Feijóo, who came here bragging about the auxiliary contracts for the new K9, what he didn't say is that most of those pieces are no longer done in Vigo or are done in Pontevedra, they are done in Morocco or Mexico; and therefore when we talk about internationalization and putting money in order for businesses to produce, we have to make it very clear that it can't be to send production to other countries and leave Galicia. We can't, for example, share that the German Government doesn't say anything about this new macro-ship being done in the Free Zone where it is intended to accumulate pieces coming from these markets in Morocco and Mexico, which were previously made in Galicia, to use in vehicles produced in Vigo. And that's done with public money because it's going to be the state that makes that ship so that Citroën exploits it for one thing: to change that concept of just in time, to have the part at the moment for the car, which was 48 hours before, for 15 days. What does that mean?, that, with public money, we're allowing Citroën to store pieces that come from other countries when he didn't, he would have to do it with pieces that come from companies around our province. So we can't agree with that approach, which is what we ask you to change. Just as we cannot agree that in recent times 200 million euros of public money are going to Citroën and that there is no commitment to maintaining employment or the quality of employment. There's a fact that for us it's chilling: of the 5,000 workers in Citroën, 1,500 have a day of less than 8 hours, 1,500!; All new workers don't have a full day. Is it because they don't work eight hours?, no: they work for them, but they work for the company – and, with these part-time contracts, what does the company do is they call them when they have jobs and when they don't have jobs they send them home and they don't charge them. That's the slavery of the 21st century that is allowed with public money. Therefore, your initiative, which I share to the extent that a government that exists must take the initiative for situations that can be given – this is not the case, because it is a government that does not exist: they go to eat freely and then forget the needs of this country –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u149	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u150	Yes, soon finished, President. You have the brutal ability to always cut me off when I'm bailing on the speech; but nothing happens, I know it wasn't on purpose; although it always happens, it wasn't on purpose. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm suggesting that this absent government should have some initiative on the table to solve this situation. But what we're not going to agree is that it would be possible for public money to degrade the working conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks and that, in addition, it is now intended that with public money it will make it easier for companies to produce outside what is soon to be used by Citroën. And this also implies auxiliary companies because what Citroën is translating into auxiliary companies is that they have to copy their work model, that labor model of a brutal performance of their workers from having no more time than the one that decides the company and that therefore we cannot share. Mr. Abel Losada, I agree with you in the explanation of the matter, not in the solution you put forward, and that's why I ask you to vote by separate points from that point you pose for internationalization. If so, we will support only this point. Nothing else and many thanks to everyone, even the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u151	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. You, too. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u152	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Exactly, what's the problem? What's the proposal? A company doesn't comply with law, so first, it has a huge international sanction that will affect its results account, probably. Citroën, logically, will greatly diminish the benefits, regardless of whether it can maintain the demand, which is different. You can keep the sales, you can also keep the demand derived from the auxiliary construction industry, but you're going to win much less. First, first of all, you have to know exactly what's going to happen; second, it's going to happen even with the demand that's still working, it's not settled in Germany by the courts, and we don't know exactly what the consequences of non-compliance and the repercussions will be. Will it remain viable?, won't it still be viable? What is the initial strategy of the People's Party? The Minister of Industry has already said that, logically, we would look for, where he has the competences, in the state as a whole, that he has no consequences for manufactures; that is, that he can match that benefit deficit, that downturn in profits, but that he continues to maintain production with lower profitability, or even assuming collateral losses. But as the State is now going to try – someone who is sanctioned – to supplement the funding mechanisms of the whole company with public funds, which would attack the competition of the rest of the companies – which also influences – that would comply with the principle of legality, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Here you are told that you have to have some funding lines for the indirect effects of a problem that you still don't know exactly. Even if not concrete, it's the most abstract type of proposal that is said to be: designing a strategy, opening a funding line. Nothing specific, nothing specific about what to do, where?, why? No lines. It's not said, it's said: we want it not to inflate. And one criticism: you never do anything. Like we don't do anything? There's Citroën, there's all the support. There's the Igape, there's all the policies that have been made. What is the real situation in the automotive sector as a whole in Spain and Galicia? It's growing and prospering. That's denying the evidence. We're denying the evidence. Curiously, what do they tell us? That we're worried about business performance accounts when they're really, with public funds, to reflect some others, when they're under an illegal penalty of non-compliance. It is really amazing this kind of proposal! With which, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that, given the clear evidence of this subject, I have nothing more to say. Logically, we cannot assume this, this absurd, this spooky, which even goes against what public funds are, equity, equality, competition, the legal principle of security, and also a very important thing, so that we do not repeat this kind of consumer abuse, which, regardless of the importance of businesses, which must be valued, can neither a parliament, a government, a society, give an unconditional vote of confidence to large companies. Logically, we think that the principles of legality are equally important to all: parties, trade unions, people, companies, etc. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u153	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I accept the point-by-point vote of the Joint Group amendment; I accept point 1, and in point 2 it would add, in addition to the "maintenance of employment", the "increment of productive capital", the two fundamental inputs. I have to admit that, in the face of the intervention of the People's Party industry spokesman, I need a decoder. It's true that it might be a problem. [[Laughter]] Decodator is a word that I suppose is harmless, Madam President. He just looked face-to-face like a surprise...! Canal Plus, when it began in the 1980s; before the PP wanted to melt it. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I have some headline: "Volkswagen cuts 4 billion investments in its tourism brand. Volkswagen is reassessing all its investments at global level. Volkswagen will cut 3 billion in vendor purchases by the "Dieselgate", of which 1,100 million will affect component Galician manufacturers. The Volkswagen investment review alarm to more than 20 Galician suppliers." Look, Mr. Arias, I don't know if this is an absurd or a spook. I would like you – just like when Ferrol's voices speak, to take a walk through the yards – to tell this story to the workers in the automotive sector in Vigo district. I insist that I don't know if it's an absurd or a spook; in any case, two quite respectable theatrical figures that, of course, achieve an intellectual level that probably many of us in this House have not achieved. I don't know if I'd prefer the Inclan Valley or Beckett, but either one of you -- you know, it's so read. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, support for the automotive sector of this government was a lot of money to Citroën to put in electric vans, "Galice", which according to the press – I didn't tell them – they were manufactured 15; and a corporate automotive university, which occupied a plant in the building of San Rafael, in Vigo, which – which had gone out in the press – gave a talk to an expert on logistics precisely. So this is what we're talking about when we talk about this present and/or absent government. The Socialist Group is asking for information on support for the automotive sector detailed by dates, recipients, accounts, concepts, bodies of the Union, jobs generated in these two legislations. Zero information, Mr. Arias. I don't know if you have it on a parallel track. If you have it, I would very much appreciate it that, in this frame of absurdity and spookyness, I would have told you. So, what if there's the Igape... I don't know if it's right to open a line of funding; what doesn't fit right -- or if it's right, it's a scandal -- is that the Igape, who has a General Directorate of Internationalization, who has an internationalization director general who was searching for markets this weekend in Havana, is looking for international investment projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u155	Finish it, Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u156	...through KPMG for 200.00 euros. Because either the Director General of Internationalization, or the KPMG left. It's not gonna be that they both stand up for the same thing. So, look, you're here talking about adjusting your rights, talking about the logic and internal coherence of this government's business support policies, with very low levels of execution, despite the fact that the spokesperson of the People's Party and the President of the Union in the debate of the state of autonomy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u157	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u158	...he explained to us what it was a multi-annuality – something I thank him so much because it was an intellectual deficiency that he had –... by the way... No, Peter, no, because you know it's been six years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u159	Mr. Losada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u160	...with 30% execution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u161	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u162	What are you talking about, long-term Stalinist planning? You think we're idiots?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u163	Mr. Losada, thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u164	Man, now! But now!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u165	Mr. Losada, your time is up! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, you've had enough of your time. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u166	We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the vote on the first of the proposals of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Santalices Vieira, which accepts the amendment of the Joint Group and rejects the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece to improve the population coverage of influenza vaccination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u167	We then voted on the proposal from the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Iglesias Sueiro, which said that she did not accept the socialist amendment but accepted the amendment from the People's Group. We vote. [[The vote was resumed.]] We voted for the second of the non-law proposals, with the amendment of the People's Group and without the amendment of the Socialist Group, which is rejected. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the action that must be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure that all women have access to the techniques of reproduction assisted by Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u168	We voted on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz, which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council on the data included in the report on the economic and social situation of Galicia of 2014, adopted by the Galician Economic and Social Council. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u169	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Acuña, who said that she accepted the amendment of the Gaga de Left alternative but did not accept the amendment of the People's Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the start of a campaign to raise awareness of gender-based violence directed towards the rural environment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This initiative is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u170	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Alternative Galaga de Lefta, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the creation of a parliamentary study commission for the Italian countryside. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u171	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Dorado, which I believe does not accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso and two other Members, on the resumption by the Galician Council of negotiations with the Vigo Council to include urban transport Vitrasa in the services of the Metropolitan Transport Plan. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 18; abstentions, 15. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u172	We are voting on the proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Adán Villamarín, who I believe does not accept any amendments. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mr. Trenor, sorry. Yeah, tell me. Give Mr. Trenor a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u173	Our group would like to request a point vote to support the maintenance of employment and production of Alcoa and San Cibrao plants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u174	Do you accept a point vote on Mrs Adán, author of the initiative? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then the initiative is split together. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary for the maintenance of employment and production in the plants of Alcoa da Coruña and San Cibrao, as well as the demand to the central government for the modification of the regulatory framework for electricity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Piñeiro? [[Pause.]] Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Losada Álvarez, who I believe accepts the vote by points. In particular, points 1 and 2 and the rest of the initiative? Any two separate points? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Accepts the amendment of the Joint Group. So we voted on the whole initiative with the amendment of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u175	Between the absurd and the spook was lost. I said I accepted the first point as it is, and I accepted the second point by adding, in addition to the maintenance of employment, the supply of productive capital. So it would be what we would vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u176	But we voted on the initiative together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u177	Complete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u178	We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P of Galician Socialists, on the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the new investment restriction policy announced by the Volkswagen Group on the automotive component sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u179	We continue the development of the agenda with point 6 of interpellation. Question by the G.P of the Socialists of Galicia on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the results of the policy followed in relation to dependency
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u180	You have the floor, to formulate your plea, Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Social Policy Counsellor, I'm going to ask my colleague, Mr. Losada, to borrow the last words you've used in your initiative by talking about decoding and decoders, for this initiative we bring here once again, Mr. Counsellor, although you're the first time you're going to answer it. By the way, welcome as advisor, – I would like to welcome you to a meeting, because the Socialists understand that, when a government changes the members of the Government, the first thing they have to do is to come to the Galician Parliament and explain what the new policies are going to be done, because otherwise, if this is not so, it will seem more like a cosmetic change than a profound change in policies. But well, we'll go check it out for days. I told him that I welcome this debate, that this is not the first time we've done it. It's true that in earlier times, every time the adviser – to the former adviser of Work and Wellness – we asked him about the fulfilment in Galicia of the Personal Self-Government Act, more known as the Dependency Law, he always told us here that it was all done, that there were thousands of public squares scattered throughout Galicia to comply with this dependency law, and the fact is that the data do is decipher everything the counselor came to tell us here. So I hope that in this first appearance with an interpellation from the Socialist Group, not for your own will – that you could do it in this plenary because there was only one appearance from an adviser, the one from Education, who, by the way, appeared almost two months after the political course had begun – you here, at least, are able to recognize the situation we have in Galicia in the fulfilment of the Personal Self-Government Act, of the Dependency Act, and we can begin to remedy what today is an absolute disaster. Because you see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, since Mr. Rajoy came to the Central Government, and since Mr. Feijóo is President of the Union, the Personal Self-Government Act has taken care of disassembly, dismantling it, leaving it empty of content. You, in your day, had no choice but to support that law that Government Zapatero made, but then, with its facts, with both normative and budgetary cuts, what they did was empty it of content, to the point where today in Galicia we have a waiting list of people who have a recognised right, but who are not receiving any economic or service benefit, of more than 41 percent. We are from the autonomous communities of the state with the most waiting list of people, I insist, with the right recognized but without receiving the benefit: 41%. In this year that we've been through, only 500 people have joined the system. Mr. King Varela, I'm taking the memory data, it's true, but I'm taking the data from the Ministry of Health, the Insertion, the state-of-the-art dependency statistics. I'm sure I'm not going to be wrong because I've repeated them many times. We are the tenth autonomous community, in the head, where users make more cohesive. I mean, we're, by the way, the second autonomous community in Spain where users make more money for dependency services. We are, Mr. King Varela, one of the autonomous communities that has less public expenditure per dependent resident. We're under 90% of the state average. And if you want in your answer to compare yourself with Andalusia or Asturias – because lately in this Parliament Mr. Feijóo, every time he comes to answer the opposition questions, he talks a lot about Andalusia or Asturias – I already announce that either of the two autonomous communities has less waiting list than we do, an average per capita spending much higher than ours on dependency, and of course much better services for citizens. For example, in Asturias the waiting list is less than 10%, in Galicia – I insist – 41%. In Galicia the per capita expenditure is only EUR 88.67, in Asturias of 97 and in Andalusia of 114. These are data that are there, so that we can all look at them in the Ministry of Health at the portal of the Insertion in the dependency statistics. And those data that may seem cold hide behind a brutal reality, Counselor. The reality that all those people who in their day saw with hope that a law was being implemented that was coming to complete the welfare state and that came to strengthen that fourth pillar of the welfare state, today they feel frustrated, by the bureaucratic obstacles imposed, that they do is make many people give up asking for the provision of dependency law, and by the brutal increase of the mates who have come to bear during these years. Look, you guys, with the reassessment they made in 2014 about the dependency benefits to those people who already recognized the right, they increased the payout by 40% on average. You know what that means? That for the first time this year there start to be free squares in residences for dependent people. Do you know why there are free squares? Not because they survive, not because we have achieved no European ratio, as they have repeatedly been saying to try to hide the truth. No, Counselor, there are free squares because families and people are not able, with their low pensions – I remind you, the lowest in the state – to make them face those trees. That's the real situation. Look, you're reassessing, in addition to counting the income of people who might be entitled to a dependency benefit, you're also counting on their estate, and you're making a senior person, with a pension from the lowest in the state, and having two banks, so to speak, you have to pay, 700 euros, 500 euros for the dependency benefit, and you're left, Counsellor, 200 euros for maintaining yourself. I'll tell you another way. Day centers. A person with one of the lowest pensions in the state has to pay 80% of what he enters for that pension to have 20% of his monthly time in a day center, and with the remaining 20% of that pension he has to keep the rest of the month, except that 20% of the time he goes to the day center. Does it seem to you that with this policy, really, can you carry out what the Personal Self-Government Act wanted to do? I'll tell you no. You, since that damned Royal Decree of Mr. Rajoy as soon as you arrived at the Government, in which you delayed the entry into force of the Dependency Law for moderate dependents, in which you cut off the benefits, in which you removed the Social Security of Caregivers, in which you made a brutal cut, since that you did obediencefully what the Central Government commanded. It is more, you, Counsellor, Mr. Rajoy, from that one until today, owes him more than 112 million euros that he took from what belonged to Galicia, and I have not yet heard any member of the Government of Mr. Feijóo complain loudly and clearly that they give us what we owe in terms of dependence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u183	And look, Counselor, as soon as possible, don't come here with star announcements with the new budget. I've done the calculation. Those 10,000 new users of the dependency that tell you they're going to attend in 2016 are fake. At most, 3,500, unless you cut even more the average expenditure per dependent person so that everyone on the waiting list will fall off or, as it has been happening until now, unfortunately, they die before receiving the benefit. Counsellor, only in the last year, more than 1,000 people died on the waiting list, with the right recognized, and unable to receive the allowance. Will you change dependency policy or will you continue to dismantle this law?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u185	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u186	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u187	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank Mrs. Gallego for her welcome and for the opportunity she has given me to have a first contact with this House to mark some of Galicia's fundamental challenges with regard to dependency. The truth is, the expectation that was generated by the Dependency Law was a very important expectation, an expectation in the whole population, and also, of course, in the population of Greece, which has an aging population and therefore very needing a law of these characteristics. But the truth is, so true that expectation was very high at its first moment, as it is also true that, from the very first moment, the fulfilment of that expectation by that moment of a different government in the nation to which it is at this moment, for it was much smaller. I actually didn't want the numerical data, the cold data, to disturb a bit of a debate so serious and so important, in which behind each digit there's a dependent, in which behind each digit there's a person, there's a family, which needs a greater involvement of different administrations. The Social Policy Council was created with the ultimate aim of transferring the economic recovery of public accounts to the homes of the Greeks and the Greeks. That is, of course, the main concern of the councillor and I understand that of all the Greeks and all the Greeks: that every Welshman, that every Welshman, is able to discover that an economic recovery of macroeconomic data can be transferred to families, which can be transferred to the well-being of people. The fact is that – as I said at the beginning of my intervention – in 2009, when this government arrived, there were also many expectations to be able to meet many more dependents than they were heeding since the entry into force of this law. That's why I'm going to start my intervention by contrasting what was before – which I think is also quite well known by this House – and what is now great features. In May 2009, there were 14,000 dependents. In 2009 there was a budget allocated to the dependency, in the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, of EUR 126 million. At the moment – and we will be able to speak on Friday at the budget meeting – there are 324 million intended for the prevention of dependency, with an increase of consolidated own funds, in the first fiscal recovery exercise of Galicia's public accounts for next year, of 102%. In 2009, there was a ratio of overall dependence attention to 30%, and right now – as you and the whole House know – is 60%, after the grade 1 is scheduled, with 15,000 new people we have to attend to. Then, in 2009, it was also a very important fact: 41% of the people receiving attention were doing it through professional services. All of this data points to a clear improvement in the system for the attention of autonomy and the prevention of dependency, but of course, I don't think that this data can distract us from the fact that we have the objective of addressing all persons who are legally entitled to quality dependency. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's a matter at this time to talk only about what a government has done, what another government has done. I have already reported what the People's Party Government has done since 2009 and how it has increased the ratios of care to dependents, and above all other fundamental data, which is the economic amount destined for this data. But it's also true that we have to be able, with a positive budget scenario for next year, to reach many more families. Of course, I think all the efforts being made from a technical point of view are also important. The fact is that since the Administration we must ensure that most of the people who have been recognized a degree of dependence receive their right of attention. So, of course, we worked in Galicia, improving technical issues to develop a law that I no longer had funding, it's that I didn't have any services -- in Galicia had much less than in other autonomous communities to meet all the people who acquired a right -- and no technical tools to achieve it. Therefore it was important to implement a computer tool that allows us to measure general data and particular data; have a simplified process map; have specific training actions for workers; improve coordination. The coordination of different administrations is a subject that I would like to promote, so that among all of us we can achieve this objective. And also the information to the citizen through the phone 012. Just like improving the early-warning Galician network. This government, therefore, made an increase that I've already told you and that you know perfectly well. This government – I say – was able to increase the people who were recognized, increase their attention ratio, and increase the dependency squares. And the number of dependents attended increased five times with respect to those that existed in 2009. I mean, the job can't stay there. The comfortable option would be to take advantage of those figures, those percentage increases, if behind those figures there were no people, no families, no need. So what I want to pass on to you and the whole House is that we're not going to comply with the figures. Yes, I'm going to give you a date from September, because I was talking about a data from the ministry. In September 933 people were discharged from the system; I think it's a data that indicates that people are being incorporated into the system. And you know perfectly well what happens with the incorporation of 1 of 15,000 new people into the system. I really tell you that the budgets for next year – we will have the occasion next Friday to speak it with greater arrest – will allow an important objective; and the goal is to incorporate 10,000 new people. As fortunately – and you will already meet me – I like to meet the commitments, and as this is a subject that we will be able to evaluate over the coming year, the next year will tell me whether we have been able to meet this objective or we have not been able to meet this objective. I'll tell you that this counselor, and the Government of which I am part, we're going to work together to get it. They are 10,000 more people in a year, which will increase the number of dependents attended from 40,000 to 50,000, and will allow 75% of those who have recognized their right, existing dependents in Galicia, to pay attention to the Public Administration throughout 2016. I say, for that reason, what I hope and wish is that we can all work together: the Government, the opposition, all parliamentary groups, on this common goal; and that we can also work with the self-government with the rest of the administrations. I come from the local administration, I believe that you can greatly increase the collaboration of the autonomous administration with the local administration, because in the matter of which we are talking – which are social rights – the most important, indeed, is not even competition and financing, but sensitivity. And I am convinced that the sensitivity of local corporations will help the Government of Galicia to achieve this goal. I'll sit next few days with municipal representatives to get this goal not only to be the goal of the Government of Galicia, but to be a shared goal by all the Greeks. The Greeks I'm sure they'll be looking forward to us agreeing to attend to 10,000 more dependents next year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u189	That's why I hope and wish for everyone's collaboration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u190	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, counsellor, the only way that the German Government is capable of, in 2016, meeting 10,000 more people on dependency, with an average spending ratio, as it was done in the years 2010, 2011 or 2012 – because I have to tell you that in 2013 and 2014 it has lowered that ratio, because it is now being paid less by the Government of the Union and is charging more spending on users – would you commit yourself here today to claim to Mr. Rajoy those 111 million euros that he owes to you from the discounts he has made to Galicia unfairly. Because look, when you tell me that you're going to meet with mayors and mayors in the next few days, I tell you that it seems very nice to meet you, at least it amends something you didn't do your predecessor, that you never wanted to meet with mayors and mayors. But it will not be, Mr. Counsellor, that you now want, at that meeting with mayors and mayors – obviously today the political map, since May 24, has changed radically – to charge them a part of the cost of dependency. [[Murmurs.]] Because look, when Mr. Rajoy arrived at the Central Government, the Central Government, who was failing – and I say – his obligation to finance the Dependency Act, was moving to Galicia 40% of the financing of the Dependency Act. Do you know how much Mr. Rajoy is moving you today? 19%, Counselor. Did Mr. Zapatero find out? Yes, I was moving 10% less than I had to move. How much is Mr. Rajoy failing? Well, look at you! About 30% less than I had to move every year on dependency. Let's not talk about the agreed plan. You know it because it comes from where it comes from, right? And when we have another debate about social services, about the powers of the councils, we will talk about reports, about the Fegamp, and we will talk about the breaches of the central government and the Greek Government with the Greek municipalities, especially with fewer than 20,000 inhabitants. We have a lot of literature and a lot of writing during that Fegamp presidency to speak calmly. But today we're talking about dependency, and look, you can't start ruling with deceit. It can't be said here that with EUR 324 million budgeted for 2016 on dependency, if that budget comes out like this from the House and you don't accept any of the amendments that we're going to present to opposition groups, if you're going to meet 10,000 more people, because it's fake. Because for this year you have 298 million euros and you're serving 39,000 people, and it's mathematically impossible to reach 10,000 more people. I insist, at most and being optimistic, you'd meet 3,400 more people. So to start remediating that first lie of yours, which Mr. President said in the debate of the state of autonomy, you in all public media interviews, and now again here, you have to ask Mr. Rajoy for the EUR 111 million he owes and you have to accept the partial amendments that we are going to present, of course, from the Socialist Group for that to be fulfilled. That, on the one hand, and on the other hand, Mr. King Varela, a council from the Socialist Group, eliminates that decree from the re-evaluation of dependent people, because it is unfair that older people, especially the largest people who live in the countryside who have – as you know – problems that are not worth anything, because of that heritage they have to increase their payloads by 40%, and they have to choose between eating or going to the center of the day, and that cannot be called social politics. You with these cuts, Counselor, as much as you try to disguise today here that will try to improve what your predecessor didn't want, what you're doing is not just dismantling the Dependency Law, it's not just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u193	...punishing people who need that law, what you're doing is changing the social model. You're changing people's rights, which were recognized in a law we all want, for charity and beneficence, because that's the model of society that you want to build, and there are the figures and the ratios...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u195	...the residences, the squares and all their political action to counter it. The Socialist Group doesn't say so, Counselor, it says all the figures, even its official statistics. So, if you really want to come as social policy advisor and make another policy, you have to start by overriding that decree and increasing the budget to honour what you said here today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u196	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Shut up. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly didn't mean that we had to ask the mayors for funding for dependence. What I wanted to say is that we'll talk to the mayors and the mayors of Galicia because we have a lot of way to move forward together if we're all worried about social policies. I would like to say – and I will say at the budget meeting – that what I hope is to increase the economic stakes for local corporations so that, among all, we can improve social services. That they don't have to be the social services of the Galician Union or the social services of the municipalities, they have to be the social services of the Greeks. That was philosophy in its creation. [[Applause]] Social services in the municipalities provide a nearby work that no self-government can achieve. Even in cities, not only social services are a single department, but there are basic social work units to be around. So, I'm telling you, the work with the mayors, the work with the mayors, which is talking to the rest of Galician public administrations, and how among all we can provide social services more suited to the Greeks, more suited to the Greeks. Actually, you tell me about the past, I understand it and I want to remind you of some data. May 2009, 14,000 dependents attended; in 2009, budgeted, 126 million euros; ratio of care, 30%. Look, I told you, I think you can do a lot more. We are, indeed, on this path that I hope the creation of this council can strengthen. I'm telling you the truth. But attention rates have increased by 500 per cent; funding has increased by 102 per cent; the rate of care has increased from 30% of the population to 60% of the population, and we want to increase that next year -- I told you -- in 10,000 new people. A situation that requires, above all, coordination of efforts and new policies as well; new policies that are essential to be able to fulfil. Look, if this was an arithmetic issue like the one you raised, instead of having politics, what would have to be machines. What we're going to try is, the resources that we have available for the year 2016 don't put them in a machine, but think that there are people who demand the boldness of governments. And the boldness of governments is to manage many more with more economic resources, which are the ones we have next year. So I hope and hope that among all of us – I say – we will be able to meet 10,000 new dependents. And that Galicia, which is a community in need of more funding to combine two important axes that it has, which are the aging of our population -- we're not going to blame older people, but what we're going to have to do is give them back everything they've done for younger generations -- and a dispersion of population, which, as you know perfectly well, have to be important funding criteria for the future. I really hope that among all of us will be able to achieve it, but, I tell you, in the meantime, we will recognize reality, and the reality is that in 2009 there were 30% of dependents attended, in 2015 we have 60% of dependents attended – an increase of 30% – and in one year, in 2016, which is a year in which the public accounts of the Autonomous Community of Galicia are improved, what we want is to reach 75% of dependents attended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u198	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo and two other Members, on the grant of housing loans
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u199	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Very good days, too, to Mrs. Counselor before MATI and now IV, of infrastructure and housing. The acronyms have been changed. This request which comes to this plenary today is a subject already brought three times by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the plenary session of Parliament and brought also once again by another parliamentary group, therefore it is a subject discussed on several occasions. It's a subject that comes back justly because it's not solved satisfactorily, not even reasonably. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about lending subsidies, perhaps we should remember what the nature of the problem is. The housing action plans 2002-2005, 2005-2008 and 2009-2012 established that beneficiaries of this aid were entitled to loans. In the case of 2005-2008, Article 9 established the right and Article 23 established the right to extension. In the case of Plan 2009-2012, he extended this right to a larger fan. If in the first one the family units with incomes below twice and half the IPREM were protected, it was extended four times the IPREM; and in addition it automatically converts the extension whenever compliance with the requirements is believed to be fulfilled within five years. Well, in the year 2012, in July, the Government presided over by Mr. Mariano Rajoy, through a legislative decree, in its article 35 resolves to cancel these aid. Cancel these aids and also establish that this cancellation will be applied to requests being processed. And here begins the misfortune. It's going to unite what we could qualify for... because I don't know how, as a true barbarian from a legal point of view. After this comes out an interpretative circular from the Ministry of Development, without signing for anyone!, which makes this not only apply to applications in process and to new applications, but also to extensions of those which have previously granted them. It is so aberrant to the situation that the People's Party itself in Parliament – taking advantage of the processing of another law, which is the Law on flexibility and promotion of the housing rental market – incorporates in the Senate an amendment which becomes an additional second provision of Law 4/2013, of June 4, in which it provides coverage for this interpretive circular applied by the ministry and therefore rebounded by the different autonomous administrations to all those beneficiaries who were ending up, who were losing or finishing the aid they had. In this process, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of resources are produced in the courts which in all cases – which I know – are resolved favourably to the plaintiffs, condemning the autonomous administrations, for if it is true that the aid comes from the National Housing Plan and the Ministry of Development, it is also true that anyone who deals and grants or denies is the own autonomous community – i.e. the respective Directorate-General for Housing of each autonomous community – and they condemn us to acknowledge this right to extension. After that, the ministry modifies its interpretative circular, and the different autonomous communities are beginning to give a certain resolution. Who do they give the resolution to? Those applications that won between July 2012 and June 5, 2013. In the case of Galicia, the fact that we were provided in this Parliament was that 1,150 applications were resolved. I don't know if these figures at this point can be corrected or not; they were resolved favourably 1,150 and 650 denied. But the question, Your Honor, is that, according to our data, welcomed to the national housing plans 2002-2005, 2005-2008 and 2009-2012, the construction of 12,000 homes was promoted in Galicia. Therefore, we understand that the number of affected is immensely higher than the 1,150 resolveds favourably. Even today, already three years since that decree, there are probably thousands of victims who still don't know they're affected because they haven't won the grant credits yet, the bonus, the subsidy that's in effect. So, ladies and gentlemen, our question is, what happens to the credits of your aid, your subsidization, won from June 5, 2013 until you win successively? Will you respect your right to extension, which was a known and recognized right, and under the rule to which they sheltered to build that housing? That right is not to be expropriated, but to be expropriated, because there would have to be compensation and there would be no compensation here, it's just that a right they had recognized is limited to it. I'll say more, Counselor. There's one element that seems relevant to me. When these aids were granted, there were a number of limitations for these families. For example, they had to ask for a mortgage at 25 years; they couldn't ask for that loan at 10 or 15, it had to be at 25 years. The second issue. They could not amortize – even if they somehow obtained resources for that – a higher percentage than what was stipulated to them by the mortgage they had granted themselves. They could not sell or rent this housing for a minimum period of 10 years fixed by their own regulations. So there are a number of limitations that are curiously still in force, but instead the counterpart of those limitations and obligations, which is the bonus of their bank credits, disappears by virtue of a subsequent decision by the Public Service. From our point of view, apart from the aberration of the above-mentioned interpretive circular -- which I don't know how to qualify because, I repeat, no one's signature, there's no general director, there's no secretary-general of the ministry responsible for that circular -- apart from the aberration that this interpretative circular requires, what is true is that those who later overcome them, what is their situation? What are you doing or are you planning on doing the councillor chairing the advisor now in Infrastructure and Vivenda? The one from MATI that we had to hear many times in this Parliament, now remained MAU on the one hand and IV on the other, this Infrastructure and Living Councillor. I think – and I am finished here – that the Galician Housing Act, which should be the law that enshrines the disappearance of public housing policy in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Act of 2012, recognises and establishes – as stated above – that competition in housing policy is an exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community. If we have exclusive competence, we have exclusive responsibility, and we cannot transfer to citizens a problem that may exist between the autonomous administration of Galicia, in any case, and the general administration of the State. For my part, nothing else. I hope this issue has a solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u201	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u202	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that I am surprised that your parliamentary group is bringing to this House an initiative, such an issue as this, which has been debated many times, and in addition to being debated, I would tell you that it is already settled. In part, thanks to the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group and also of the Galician Union. To begin with, I am surprised that in the text of his appeal he refers to a judgment by the Madrid High Court of Justice relating to the Madrid Community. To be rigorous, Your Honor, I think we should have referred to the judgments of the Greek courts, because I think that what we are talking about is Galicia, which is what we should be dealing with. Judgments exempting the Galician Board from the payment of loans from the Housing Plan. In those judgments you referred to are the judges themselves who recognize that it is not the Union that must pay, which must be the State because it is a state aid, and the Union only makes the processing. As I said, and as the director of the Galego de Vivenda Institute and Solo Parliamentary Commission explained, what you are proposing has been resolved since the summer, particularly since the summer of 2014. As you know – as you said – the problem stemmed from an interpretative approach by the Ministry of Development that suppressed the possibility of requesting extensions in the grant of loans for housing protected from the previous Plan, 2009-2012. In the face of this situation, the People's Parliamentary Group brought to this House a non-legislative proposal to urge the amendment of this interpretative criterion, and I myself, also in July 2014, personally addressed the Minister of Development to request the review of this interpretative criterion and also to transfer our concern to him. The result – I'm sure you already know – is that in August 2014 the Ministry of Development referred the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo to the new interpretative criterion. New interpretative criterion on the renewal of subsidies for these loans. This new interpretative criterion expressly indicated that refusals to extend the grant of loans to the Housing Plan 2009-2012 could be repealed whenever two conditions were met: that the denial resolution had occurred in a specific period in which the problem was concerned, after the entry into force of Decree Law 2012, of 13 June, and before the entry into force of the Law 2013 of 4 June. And the other condition is that the housing plan requirements were met. I think, really, these are two logical and simple criteria, totally logical. The ministry also reported that it recognized the favourable resolutions that had already been issued by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo before the first interpretative criterion authorizing payment of these. Because after the entry into force of the 2012 decree – as you know – the Institute continued to issue resolutions in favour of requests for renewal of the grant of these loans. And in August – as I told you – the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo began to review all the denials. It was a total of 1,785 refusal resolutions that we reviewed one by one. Of course, it was a great effort by the board officials that I think it's worthy of recognition. In two out of three cases it was found that applicants for the extension of the subsidy complied with those established requirements and a new resolution was reached. The new resolutions have been sent to stakeholders according to what they have been saying, and for many months now that the stakeholders themselves have already had these communications in their hands, they have already been sent to them. And then it ended the intervention by the Galician board, Your Honor, because the payment of the aid is carried out by the Ministry of Finance to the financial institutions without intervention, of any kind, of the Institute. * As you also know, housing competition is in the Autonomous Community, but housing plans are instruments that allow for government funding. In the case of Galicia, traditionally state funding is complemented by own aid created and financed by the Galician Union, and for each plan there are both state aid and self-help. Among the state aids are those created and financed by the Ministry of Development, such as the grant of loans to which you refer in your interpellation, but in the same way that was also the direct state aid at the entrance. And both aids were suppressed at the time by the ministry that created them and financed them. However, I have to say that your political group did not move to defend the permanence of this aid directly at the entrance, which is known as the AEDE, which consisted of a single payment that could reach up to 12,000 euros and that the benefit was received after the acquisition of a protected housing and the constitution of its mortgage. This aid was mainly directed at reducing the total amount of the mortgage loan and the effect was the same as that of the subsidy, with the advantage that, by reducing the amount of the mortgage, interest was also reduced. But the interruption of direct state aid to entry was not the subject of any parliamentary initiative by the Socialist Party, nor was it the subject of any resort of unconstitutionality. I don't know if that could have been for being government Zapatero's help, who eliminated that help from day to day. The difference between one aid and the other lies in that, while its party approved the abolition of AEDE aid, the Board played an active role in defending the rights of those affected by the abolition of this mortgage loan subsidy. Since the ministry issued its first interpretative approach, Junta has often transferred to it the problem posed by this interpretation. And our goal, the goal of the Board, was that the ministry would review that criterion. On repeated occasions, the Institute transferred and proposed to the General Directorate of Architecture, Vivenda and Solo of Madrid that the way to achieve the definitive solution was to revise that interpretative criterion of the real decree, and in that sense we were the most active Autonomous Community on that line. When, indeed, the interpretative approach was revised, the IGVS immediately went to review all the new resolutions, and in March, the honourable Member, when he was interested in this matter in parliamentary committee, was already resolved. It was the law of June 4 that suppressed these aids, and his party presented a resort of unconstitutionality, but already recognizing that it was a state aid. The Galician Council, as I explained to you, has always been opposed to the abolition of subsidies retroactively, and as I said at the beginning, the judgments you made indicate that if you pay someone, you have to pay for the ministry. Your Honor, in the German Government, we are focusing our efforts on developing programs that facilitate access to housing, both in rent and property regimes, in the best living conditions of existing housing. Our bet, as you know, is the RehaVita Plan, of the first autonomous plan we have in Galicia on housing. 150,000 citizens will benefit, with an investment of 600 million euros, half of the Galician Union; a plan of what a few months have passed, but half of the performances are already underway. In the budgets of the year 2016 the advisor collects projects of this RehaVita Plan, which puts the emphasis, as I had the opportunity to tell you yesterday, in rehabilitation and social housing. It emphasises these two issues: social programmes and housing rehabilitation, and includes, among many other measures, funds for the payment of aid for access to housing. The 2016 budgets therefore include aid, and assistance from the Galician Union, financed and created directly and entirely by the Galician Union. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u203	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u204	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, your reply would be fine. It'd be all right if it were true. But that's not the truth. Look, I'm going to read to you... there's one thing, first of all, that I want to recognize you. The People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician People's Party were very intense in defending the interests of the Greeks, or certain Greeks, when the Socialist Party was ruling in Madrid. What we don't know is that it happened at the end of 2011 so that those who looked like wolves would become sheep from the end of December 2011. In fact, the previous Government of Spain in 2011 withdrew certain aid, but not with retroactive effects. I mean, the ones who had given them, they got them, and from a moment on, they stopped giving themselves new help. That has nothing to do with what the People's Party did in 2012, in which it suppresses aid with retroactive effects, nullifies the aid that is being processed, and even through an interpretive circular that I say again that no one is signing, it intends to apply it to those that have been granted for years. That's what falls, and I wouldn't dare say that because of the special role played by the People's Party in Galicia; and then I'll tell you why. It's because of the multitude of complaints and judicial judgments. That's why we came from Madrid and Valencia, because that's where the first judgments annul the resolutions of the respective directors general of Vivenda, who are at that time denying the extensions, and they say, you can't deny an extension because you can't accept the amendment of a law with retroactive effects, nor can you modify a law based on an interpretative circular. Look, Counsellor, the Socialist Party against Law 4/2013 has presented a resource of unconstitutionality. And the People's Party voted for that law. It's a very remarkable difference. Here we are told that they are sensitized and that they defend the rights of these citizens, but not the Senate and not Congress this Law 4/2013, which says: Subsidy aid to the loan recognized within the framework of state housing plans is deleted and without effect. No further recognition shall be granted of grant subsidies from concessions, renewals, extensions, subrogations, etc. Who voted for him? The People's Party voted for him. The Socialist Party is the one who presented the resource of unconstitutionality. I hope that something like this will happen to something that is now taking out our colors, when the European Union tells us that in the ground clauses we have to return the money unduly charged since they were wrongly charged; not since a court says that the charge is undue, but since they have been wrongly charged. And that's getting us the colors. I trust that the Constitutional Court will also nullify the retroactive effects of Law 4/2013, that you are not settling. I mean, what you're saying, with a certain reason, is that the direct responsibility is Madrid because whoever puts the money is Madrid. But hey, who has the competition, it's you, it's not Madrid. We can claim Madrid to put more money on it, but who has the competence, because it says it in the Statute of autonomy of Galicia and because it says it in the Law of Galicia, it is the Union of Galicia. Therefore, if you have the competence, you must take responsibility for this. Therefore, Your Honor, we believe this problem is not solved. It is partially solved for these 1,150 families, but there are about 11,000 families left more than – as I said before – many of them still don't know the problem they're involved in, and Iranians discovering according to how they win their credit, and more seriously they will find out if the credits are the variable interest as they are, the day the euribor rises, because, in fact, the subsidization of the credits affects what is paid of interest, and those that are referred to in eubor, because with a euurbor of 0.50 % that subsidization may seem small, but unfortunately that euurbor is 2,3...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u205	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u206	...or 4 points, within a year or in two, if you see how many problems we're all created. I hope they land on the subject and give a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u207	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u208	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bugallo, I repeat to you what I told you in my first intervention, which is an aid created, financed and suppressed by the State. And Junta, of course, has always defended the interests of the beneficiaries, she has managed the aid, she has also managed the solution, because she knows – I told her in my first intervention – that we were able to review it on our own – not on the request of the beneficiaries, but on her own initiative – 1,700 extension requests resolutions. I'd like to say that Junta takes on loan subsidies, but, of course, the rest of the autonomous communities, Galicia, I don't think she can take on an initiative that isn't her own. I don't know you, but, of course, I have no record that no community had. For us the housing is irrevocable, it is a completely preferential matter, both for citizens and for public administrations, but for the Union of Galicia as well. That's why we have lines of action to solve. You know that in some cases these actions are funded by state funds. From the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo we only manage as efficiently as possible. In other cases, actions financed from State funds such as mortgage loan subsidies or, at the moment – as I also told you – direct state aid, the entry suppressed by Government Zapatero, are authorized and paid directly by the ministry, without further intervention by the Galician Board to check compliance with the requirements. You know that. There are even programs like the ARI – integral rehabilitation areas – jointly funded by the ministry and the Unity of Galicia but in which the responsibility for execution lies with the municipalities. This is another measure that exists. On the other hand, there are also numerous other lines of direct aid and action, financed solely from own funds from the Autonomous Community, which suppose, of course, a strong commitment from the Board to achieve that goal that we have marked, which is to make a home available to all the Greeks who need it. All the actions aimed at facilitating access to housing to families that need it the most and the most disadvantaged are in the first autonomous plan we had the opportunity to approve. As you well know, sir, we presented the budgets this week, and yesterday I had the opportunity to deal with it in a parliamentary committee. A few accounts in which, as I said in my first intervention, there is a special effort for social housing; rehabilitation, too, but especially social housing. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo is the department that increases the budget the most. You know that in 2016 – I told you yesterday – it increases by 19.9 % and is of great importance to aid and subsidies, because they increase by 39.5%. Your Honor, the 2016 housing budget will also be used to reinforce the real estate programme affected by mortgage executions, to guarantee a housing for all those affected, and will also help to avoid the default deficits thanks to the rental bonus, an aid to which in 2015 we are allocating a million euros; in 2016 we will allocate a million and a half euros, therefore, there is an increase of 47% of the social rental bonus. And we can continue to paralyze evictions thanks to the agreements signed with financial entities, including Galicia's largest financial entity, which has committed itself to the Galician Union not to throw away any family from its home for economic reasons. We will also put into operation a new program with a high social content, which is the housing of insertion. Lives which the IGVS will make available to non-profit administrations and non-profit entities carrying out social activities. In addition, in the next year, the rehabilitation budget increases by 54%, with 23.6 million euros. We will also maintain the rehabilitation work, and I encourage your political group to be an active part of these initiatives that we have in Galicia, we have a programme. I ask them to get involved and help us to give this information to citizens, especially the most disadvantaged. I think we'll be there on the road we all want, because from the government we won't rest while a single family is at risk of losing their housing for economic reasons. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u209	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández of the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, on the closure of public education centres in the Brazilian rural environment for the course 2015-2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u210	Mr Vázquez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u211	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. I would like to begin by anticipating that my intervention, Counsellor and honourable Members, does not intend to direct those who have closed more schools in rural areas, whether the Bipartite or the People's Party. I say this because this is often one of the central elements of the arguments used by the People's Party in addressing this problem, which I think should be assumed with high regard and with political courage. From AGE we believe that getting into a competition to know who does the worst is a weak favor to the political debate. So, if we have to compete, we have to provide the best ideas and the best solutions. I believe that this will help our country if it really is what we are working for in this Parliament. So, from Alternative Glaga de Leftes, the only thing we want with this initiative is, on the one hand, to put on notice, to warn about the serious situation that is going through rural education in our country; a situation of genuine extermination that gets worse every year. Secondly, to defend the educational model of rural school, the specific educational model of rural education, for its potential and also for its clear advantages. Thirdly, to clarify that the future of rural areas, that the future of Galicia, ultimately, answers to demographic problems, economic problems and structural problems in our country, cannot be tackled by leaving aside the problem of rural education and the needs of the Greek rural school. But to say that the situation of rural education is serious, ladies, that is to say very little. Since 2003, Galicia has lost 252 schools in rural areas; 252 schools that have disappeared and will do so irremediably and forever. And when we say 252 schools, we're not only referring to units, which is often thought to be the first of the victims of closing schools, but also the primary and child education centres of several units. Since Mr. Feijóo's government, they have closed in Galicia, in these last six courses, 103 schools; more than 500 classes that have disappeared from our education system. I would like to clarify, if there is any doubt, that President Feijóo, along these two long legislations, was the president of Galicia who closed more schools in rural education; the president therefore bears that sad record. Since this is the case, since this policy of land burned to the countryside is evidence, we must therefore see that Mr. Feijóo is also the leader in this facet. But it wasn't the only one, that's the reality, it wasn't the only one. The 1970s and 1980s were a period that became known as the period of school concentration. During those years, a certain negative idea of rural school has been extended from the official authorities. The rural school was presented as a symptom of delay, as a source of difficulties for the education system, and therefore something that had to be addressed. In fact, closing schools in rural areas was a fundamental part of the burnt land policy, which I referred to earlier, which applied the People's Party in rural areas, and which was accompanied not only by the dismantling of the network of unitary schools and rural schools, but also by the dismantling of the specific productive sectors of the field. A strategy of this, that of the extermination of rural areas, in which the PP counted on the invaluable help of education inspectors – if I say so, of course – at a time when access to public service was, at least, influenced by political instances. Celebrities of education inspectors such as Mr. Francisco Cacharro Pardo, then Councillor of Education and President of the Provincial Deputy of Lugo for 25 years. Celebrities of education inspectors such as Manuela López Besteiro, inspector and then adviser, or Mr Celso Currás, also inspector and dessert advisor, agents like these went to the people to calm the social rejection against the closure of rural schools, and even to calm the protests of the mayors of the various towns and villages of the country before the closure, or the imminent closure, of a school. They collaborated from official bodies, through the Education Inspectorate, to extend the idea that school groups, so-called school groups, macro centers, offered great advantages to students and families. It was said that school groups had better facilities, which allowed for better teaching organization. They said that in school groups, in schools, higher quality education was given, with a specialist teacher and a whole range of advantages, in contrast to the position of rural education. They offered families – and this is very important in this context – free school transportation and school dining to facilitate the movement of their children towards this school group. It's funny that now – this same advisor did it yesterday – they call these complementary services, when they claim their gratuity, "coffee for all," when it was that coffee for all that was offered to those families as a pretext to close their village school, the school of their people. Thus, with this policy, the view of rural school as a carrier of backward education was emphasized; the inferiority complex of rural school and with it the stigma of rural school, also driven, in this case, from official instances, when we know – and we also know it from pedagogical science – that this stigma against rural school is absolutely unfounded and that stigma against rural environment lacks pedagogical justification but also lacks logical justification. Today we know – there are numerous bibliography on this – that rural school contains a number of positive elements intrinsic to its own characteristics. The education in rural areas, the school in rural areas, is being carried out by avoiding the uprooting of pupils, children and children born in these towns and villages. The rural school allows children and children to grow up in a favourable environment, close to their own family environment, close to their own environment. The rural school allows the proximity to these realities of life that we often leave behind in the urban environment: the cycles and stages of the natural environment, the proximity to the process of creating the [...] fundamentals, the derivatives of the field etc. But above all – and I want to make this very clear in this intervention – rural school is a fundamental service to ensure the survival of communities in rural areas. Without school, when a school is closed – we say it repeatedly – the death of a people is announced. And we have seen many times, first of all, as a usual procedure, that the complementary services of a school are eliminated. Take them off the dining room, put them in a catering. As the student is then grouped together, he is mixed up with students of different ages, he is eliminated by a specialist professor, he is eliminated by cycles, he is done by the famous groupings. 50% of the municipalities in the province of Lugo and Ourense have pupils grouped from different courses and from different ages. And then, as that center's license plate goes down, the rumors that the school is going to close. But it's always summertime, when families don't take their children to school, when they make themselves public in that famous catalogue order, when they close centers, when it's irremediable. We believe that the German Government is not aware of the consequences of the extermination of education in rural areas for the future of our country. We believe that the situation is truly limited, at least as limited as that, so that, once and for all, if we take action and take this matter seriously. That is why we are presenting this question, because we want to know whether this advisor, whether the Education Council, if the German Government, is aware of the seriousness and the serious situation that rural education is going through in our country. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we're talking about education again. Yesterday we had a great opportunity to talk about education in this House. We have seen two different visions and we have seen as an opposition – or as the opposition, rather said – not to see the glass half full or half empty, not to see it empty, it's not to see it empty, it's not to see the glass. And really, listening to you here, Your Honor, I don't know if you, who is younger than me, knew the rural world in the 1970s, if you had relations with the rural world in the 1970s, and if you asked some of the families, of which you say you lost quality of life and educational quality, by school concentrations. I'd like to know if that's the case, because I really heard a well-held, attractive, buccolic-pastorial speech here, but it really doesn't have any parallel to reality. And that may be my opinion, it may be my opinion that you can break, and surely you will have your opinion, but it also gives me the feeling that you don't know the rural world today. It gives me the feeling that you know him little, and he keeps thinking that the rural world is Heidi's world, right? It's also an opinion, and surely your opinion will be different from mine, and that's good, that there are different opinions. But beyond opinions, let's talk about objective issues, and talk about data. We talked about it yesterday, and we said we understood that there was an improvement in the education system in general in Galicia, and we didn't mean it. We say this because there are objective data, there are indicators, there are variables, there are results, there are specific programs and projects. You, to some extent, want to move – we did so yesterday – part of that debate to the issue of rural education. First, we should define what is rural. I'm a geographer and it's hard to make a clear line between what's rural and what's urban, what's difficult. There are peri-urban areas. Is Teo rural or is it urban? Hats? I mean, what is rural and what is urban? We have a purely rural paradigm and a purely urban paradigm, but there are many intermediate realities in the middle, and to make that speech as focused on a vision, as I said earlier, bucolic-pastor because it has its risk. You obviously talk about groupings here, you talk about units, and you also talk about the distribution of educational services by geography, by the territory. Obviously, groupings, units – that of units – you said – all governments, all governments, they closed units, no government is proud to close units, I'm sure, I'm sure no government. This government did, the two-party government did, and others did. We have a criterion, with 5 students closing a unit, with 6 students remaining open. And it's not a capricious criterion, based on that, on the one hand, there has to be a rationalization of the distribution of the service, but on the other, there must also be a pedagogical criterion. There are a lot of pedagogical currents, which you probably know, which say having a number of less than five students is even anti-pedagogic for children most children, because it prevents socialization. That is a criterion that is used. We're not going to argue, it might also be a pedagogic opinion. But, in any case, other governments, with less demographic crisis and less economic crisis, closed them with 9; left-wing governments. What do you want me to tell you? Groupings. Fortunately, you can make groupings. And what do those groupings make possible? What students from different courses are in educational centers in which there can be a very personalized attention, with specialist teachers who compensate for the fact that there are different levels in the same class. And this is, in some ways, enabling groupings to have no negative impact on the formation of the individual, on the personal training of the child or child. Obviously, three units have been closed this year, some years have been closed many more; and, I insist, with a smaller demographic crisis and a lower economic crisis. Catalogues. You quoted them, too. You'll need to know that the catalogues were approved at a time, in theory, of economic kindness, in 2007, by the two-party government. They're scrupulously treated. And that inspection service, which actually surprises you to go to the inspectors like this... I had a meeting with the inspectors today, we had an incorporation of 14 new inspectors, and I hope they didn't hear it, Mr. Vázquez. I'm not going to tell you, but really what you just said against inspectors, against public professionals, against public servants, because it's an expression I think it's quite strong. Well, in any case, the inspectors wouldn't let us fail to meet the professor's catalogue, which is 2007 made by the Bipartite. Which I think I also say that catalogs are cheerful figures is an opinion, it's not a reality. Also, when you talk about unit losses, you use that half-truth, half-truth, which you use politically and demagoxically in an interesting way, but which is not supported. You're talking about the units that have been lost. Right, right, but it doesn't talk about what they've created, and about the balance there is. And he's not talking about demography, he's not talking about demographic distribution, and he's not talking about the distribution of young people, which is the key. It doesn't mention that units are closed in some areas but that units are opened in other geographic areas. Why? Because the demographic distribution of the population is that it is, in the peri-urban areas of the country, units are opened, centers are opened, schools and schools are opened, works are constructed – I said 33 million euros yesterday – and in areas where there are no students – and not by setting up a school there will be students – what we have to ensure is that there is a school transport that can take these children to places where they can be implemented and implemented a quality educational service. Because the demographic trend and teaching needs to be based on reorganization. I'm going to give you the inspection data, you may suspect them, but Inspectorate tells us that in this academic course 68 units have been deleted and 55 units have been created. That is, a balance in Galicia – according to the geographic distribution – of -13. Well, account must be taken of efficient resource management, but we must also take into account the student's educational needs, and that's what we really care about. If a unit is closed, we have to put that student in another unit so that he can have a quality educational service, and that's really what we're concerned about. And look, you're talking about rural, and I've already told you that it would cost me a job to mark a line of what is rural and what is urban beyond the images we can have each other in our retina. But from a statistical point of view, there is a figure, which is 10,000 inhabitants. Town Councils of less than 10,000 inhabitants are rural, municipalities with more than 10,000 are urban, although I insist that it is questionable. But we're going to take that reference. In Galicia there are 257 municipalities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, and 826,000 people living in these municipalities, 30.7% of the population. It's official IGE data. Population at school age in these municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants: 72,172, or 23.5%. Educational centers – to see that comparison and not to talk about opinions and about realities and numbers – that are in municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants: 35.2%. Centers at the main programmes that set the quality and equity of the educational system, which sets out the quality and the equity of the education system. Education: therefore, in language learning, there is a balance in language learning, 23.6% of the educational centres in rural rural schools exist in 29.7% of the educational centres in rural areas – for 23.5% of students – there are bilingual sections; in 30.4% of rural educational institutions in rural education centres there are talk assistants; in multilingual centres there is a balance, 23.6% against 23.5% there is a balance; in language learning schools in rural schools there are 29.7% of students in rural schools; in 30.4% of rural education institutions there are talk assistants; in multilingual schools there are 23.6% of language learning centres there is a balance, 23.6% against 23.5%, there is a balance; in programme contracts there is 26.5% of the 26.5% of educational educational educational centres in rural rural municipalities – for 23.5% of the rural municipalities; in new technologies, something that we think is very important for a demographic demographic volume of school of 23.5% of school age, apart from the experiences we know- how you experience that you know and I know and I know and I have a communication, and I myself myself, and I will also, and I will be, and I will be, and I will be, and that there is really will be very good, and that there are very good, and that there is really there are very good communication, and that there is going there is there is very good, and there is very good there is what there is very good there is how there is how there is how there is how there is how there is how there is how there is how there is how there is how it is how it is how it is how it is how it is how it is how it is in cloud, how it is how it is in cloud, how it is how it is how it is in cloud, how it is in cloud, how it is, how it is in cloud, how it is how it is how it is how it is a cloud, how it is a cloud, how it is a cloud, how it is in the "The is a cloud school, how it is a cloud school, how it is in the "The is a school and how it is in the age and how it is in the cloud school, how it is in the cloud school, how it is in the cloud school, how it is in the
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u215	...innovation, Project Plan, at 44.3% of the centres; and school transport and dining rooms, mostly in rural municipalities, and only in the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants there are 1,930 routes, which means 71.3 million euros, I repeat, 71.3 million euros dedicated to school transport in the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, for a percentage of 23.5% of the students. So, look, one thing is to make criticism of ourselves, but those criticisms of themselves must be shown with data. And I think the data is powerful. We have, and it is our obligation to have, a quality education, regardless of where the student lives. And I think it's getting done, the data I just presented is powerful enough to say that we have a good rural education, that of course we have to continue to improve, but obviously the smoothness of the data, because in some way it discredits that negative message. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u216	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u217	Counsellor, I must remind you that one of the first steps this Government took when it came to power in Galicia was to close Pre-school at home, a fundamental service for our rural environment, which served thousands of families in our rural environment, and that it became an indispensable educational and educational tool, valued in the international context, awarded from all the educational fields of the European sphere, and that the German Government closed for no reason, without any reason. I want to remind you because that symbolizes it in a way I think I really need the real bet on teaching in rural this government. Some questions I would like to clarify to you: if there is a group in Parliament that has more clearly denounced the difficult situation in which the Greek rural environment is going through, I believe that this is Alternative Left Galicia, even if it has accused us of being catastrophic. I do not understand your speech in relation to which I – this humble deputy – made a speech of the world of Heidi on the rural environment, because it is absolutely contradictory. The real author of this great work, "Galice, the country of wonders", that is Mr Feijóo, is certainly not the Members of the Alternative Galga de Left. We don't draw a docile-pastorial painting on our rural environment, which we defend are the potentials that have the rural environment, and what we defend are the potentials that have rural education, which has been and is subject to continuous stigma, at least on the right side. I know there's no clear line between rural and urban education, because there are cities that have rural schools on their outskirts. Those are also the object of our attention, I don't mean that they have to stay out of a real bet of impulse and education in the countryside. On the other hand, when you say that this government establishes a limit of five students to close a school, it clearly demonstrates its failure of intention and political impulse. Why don't measures be activated when a school in a rural environment begins to lose students, previously in a preventive manner, to close this school? Why are you waiting for them to reach five and then lock themselves in an irremediable way? What measures are activated when it is appreciated that a centre in a rural environment is at risk of being closed in the future? None. They're the centers themselves, they're the educational communities themselves, they're the ones that activate them. We have the initiative, for example, of Vilariño de Conso, which through its council put housing at affordable prices available to those families who wanted to settle in rural areas, discounts at the prices of the dining room, exceeding the rates imposed by this government, and other measures with which they can save their centres. It's possible to save a school that is in danger of closing, but for that it must have a determined political action, that this government does not take, and therefore it is summed up in announcing the closure in the catalogue order. It's not enough to establish a cold number; when it goes down by five, it closes, and nothing else. School closing record: year 2003 – coming from 2003 – 51 closed schools, Counsellor, Government of the People's Party. I talked about inspectors, some inspectors, and I gave concrete names – not generalized, because I most explicitly couldn't be – some inspectors who acted as political agents of the People's Party when they closed the centers. Therefore, all respect for independent officials, no respect for the political agents of the People's Party in the exercise of their public service. There are a few, but there are some, and I gave him the specific names. I of course do a disaggregated analysis of the closing of schools and classes and the opening and closing of schools and classes. What good is it for you to the town hall of Ribeira de Piquin, when you close your school, that you open another one in Vigo? It's no use to him. That balance is no good for that county. The closure of a school is an irreparable loss and therefore does not deserve any kind of analysis with which another school is opened. What good is it to the council of Cervantes, when one class is deleted, which opens another in the Coruña? It's no use to him. The relevant data is closing schools and closing classes. And, of course, we celebrate any kind of opening if it's really necessary, as it usually is. What's it good for you to put school transportation to a 3-year-old boy who has to travel 45 minutes over the Galician geography, an hour, sometimes an hour and a half; get up at 7:30 in the morning a 3-year-old boy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u219	... affecting their performance seriously, and what are you told that rural education is in very good condition? It's no use to that kid or that family. There is a need for a policy of boosting rural education and promoting the concept of rural education. On top of that, of course, you cannot deny that the situation is very serious, Counselor. You said here that the situation wasn't what we drew.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u221	To conceal the serious situation of rural education, from our point of view, is very serious; and, as far as you are concerned, a tremendously irresponsible fact.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u222	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a debate of interest about how to manage public services. You spoke of the Pre-school service at home, which was at the time a magnificent service, at the time, in the 1970s or 1980s. But the situation in the rural environment today is not the same, you'll know there's an increase in the network of huge day care facilities all over the Greek territory. And you'll know that in rural areas there's an oversupply, there's lots of empty nursery squares. With which, trying to compare one thing to another has nothing to do with it. And I think, Your Honor – I would like to remind you of an expression that is usually said, I don't say personally, as a political concept – that sometimes it is more convenient to seek out the true reality of things than simply imagining them. Look for reality, don't imagine what reality you'd like, look for reality. Because, of course, you imagine a reality of your own, which is only in your imagination or in your way of seeing life and the world, and they don't accept the reality of the facts, the reality of the numbers, which we've just seen, of the data we've just presented. They are powerful, I think the data that have been presented are powerful; that is, there is total support from the Galician Council for rural education. That's not incompatible with that, when there are no children in a geographic area, you have to close a school or you have to close a unit and you have to move those children to a place where there are children. Or do you think we can have, as a country, a school in front of every house where there's a child? Don't think so, it's impossible, you know it's not like that. So we're talking about – I just said – that in complementary services, transport and dining rooms, where are you going to invest?, where is the economic application of these services? He's in the countryside, I just said. At the level of multilingualism programs, innovation programs, there's an implementation of the number of students at a very high percentage. The number of centers? Far above the number of students. So, of course, if we keep imagining what we want to imagine, what we'd like it to be, we don't see reality. And, look, I think few political parties are so committed to teaching in rural areas as the People's Party in Galicia can be. Look at these benches, there's not one, not two, not three, not four rural people, there's lots, lots of them. And I'm sure many of them were in units or maybe they were master of units. And it seems we're being accused of trying to exterminate rural education. Look, Galicia has a very important problem, perhaps the most important, which is the demographic problem, and especially in rural areas. And in the demographic problem there are three variables: there is the dynamics, there is the structure and there is the location. And whether we burn it or not, there's a territorial imbalance in the demographic distribution of the population. And that's why a responsible government, like the Government of the People's Party, has always been pushing measures in favour, plans in favor; and now a general direction – which seems to dislike some – in favour of demographic dynamization. I remember, I was rapporteur, as a Member, of the Demography Plan, and I remember some parties that didn't sit on that table. Because for you it was nonsense, and some of you have publicly mocked, publicly mocked the Demographic Plan that supported this government and which was said this morning that is being fulfilled. But, of course, that is the main problem of the rural environment, the demographic issue. And as long as we're not aware of that situation, everything else is good intentions and personal imaginations. In any case – to finish, Mr President – the political commitment – not doubt, Mr Vázquez – of this party and of this government with education in rural areas is clear, there is support for education in rural areas. We're trying to give the best education service. Why? [[Murmurs.]] Because it doesn't matter – this is our philosophy – it doesn't have to matter, where one lives or where one is born to be able to access an educational service of quality and equity. And we've just seen him presenting the data of plerlinguism, new technologies, program contracts, etc.; where in rural areas we are in a percentage situation above the student that exists in these areas. So this must not blind us to think that we should not rationalize it, and think of criteria, on the one hand, of geographic zoning, but also of managing economic resources and also of pedagogical criteria. With which, Your Honor, I insist – and already finished, Mr. President – I think one thing is what we imagined or would like to imagine and another is reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u224	Thank you, Counselor. We resume the agenda on the eighth, from questions to the Government. Question by D. Alejandro Gómez Alonso and D. Enrique Nóvoa López, from G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia for the bidding of the construction project for the connection of the industrial polygon of San Cibrao das Viñas with the highway A-52
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u225	Mr Enrique Nóvoa López, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u226	Thank you, President. Counsellor, it's only been a few days since the industrial entrepreneurs of San Ciprián de Viñas celebrated the 50 years of their start-up, i.e. the installation of the first company in the industrial polygon. Over these years it has been an engine of generation of work and wealth, installing hundreds and hundreds of companies of all kinds, of leading companies at the national level in automotive, textile, wood, food, bodywork. I mean, there's Unvi, with all the work he does, who transforms more than 80% and exposes it; there's, in food, Coren; there's Adolfo Domínguez; let's remember he's been many years, too, Citroën. And we have to make a special reference to the fact that the Galician Technology Park is installed in that polygon. This polygon, at that time, was a continuous generator for thousands of workers and workers in the city of Ourense and its environment, therefore, in its province. Today there are more than 300 active companies there that are generating jobs and giving jobs to more than 8,000 employees, women and men. It is also true that the current directive which represents all employers demands a number of services, but giving priority to something which is vital to their future as a company. This is a road that connects the San Cyprian of Vines to the highway called "The Low Rhine", that is, A-52. Counsellor, we all know that communications are a very important aspect in our lives, for entrepreneurs in the San Ciprián de Viñas polygon, too. They need and want to be more competitive, and that means putting their products as soon as possible. Counsellor, this Austrian deputy, first as a worker and then for many years as an entrepreneur, on behalf of all businessmen, asks him the following question: What about the forecasts of the German Government for the bidding of the constructive project of connection of the industrial polygon of San Ciprián de Viñas with this highway, with the highway of the Lower Rhine? No more, for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u227	Thank you, Mr. Novoa. Answer the Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u228	Thank you, President. Mr President, in recent years in Galicia we have been working very hard to improve communications, especially in these business areas of our community, aware that providing these connections with our business parks is to achieve greater competitiveness and also greater economic momentum in Galicia. That's why it's a priority line we're working on, and we want to keep moving on. And of course it also includes within our work the improvement of the connection of the San Cibrao das Viñas polygon to the A-52 highway. We know that in the business environment of San Cibrao das Viñas one of the main hubs of Ourense's industrial activity, I would say from all over Galicia. We're talking about an industrial polygon of over 5 million square meters, with over 300 companies installed, and, as you said, it employs almost 8,000 people. Of course, an important economic engine for the entire province that needs better connections to increase efficiency and also for greater economic activity. As you commented, the connection of the polygon to A-52 is an old demand, an old demand from employers and also the citizenship that moves there to go to work. A business aspiration to which we are, of course, eager to respond by working around with viable and appropriate alternatives. And that's why we have a trace of less affection both on land and on buildings and on infrastructure. And we've already drawn a new connection from the San Cibrao das Viñas polygon to the A-52 link that begins in Gargantós, in A-52, where the bus itself is connected to the local road and to the AG-53 highway, and which runs also up to N-525; a 4.5-kilometre track that runs through San Cibrao and also through Taboadela. So we've reduced the route by 66%, from 11 kilometers to 4.5 kilometers. And in parallel, of course, that we will improve competitiveness. We also strive to obtain the European funds needed to do this work. A job I would say that is not visible but that, however, I have had a lot of time with many people and in which we have spent a lot of effort, and that today allows us to have 15 million European funds to be able to run this connection from the San Cibrao das Viñas polygon to A-52. And our work has certainly not ended here. At Junta we'll continue to work and put on resources and resources so that this strategic project can materialize as soon as possible and say it's reality. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u229	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Novoa. [[Pause.]] Excuse me a moment, Mr. Novoa, to see the microphone now. Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u230	Thank you for that good news, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u231	No, it's not working. It's not working. [[Murmurs.]] Please give a voice to Mr. Novoa's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u232	I was saying, Counselor, thank you for that good news. This Member, along with the other colleagues, the fellows whom we represent with great honor the Group of the People's Party, but who also transfer it to the rest of the Members of the other groups, thank you, as I say, for that good news. We'll be some transmitters to communicate to the whole city of Ourense and also to the province, but above all to the entrepreneurs, who are most concerned about this work. Thank you. And again, what you're going to say is that this Government of Galicia meets. And in the end, the facts give credibility to people and governments. So, therefore, Counselor, thank you very much for what you just announced to us. So just in the second intervention of yours, you can give me some more data and put it into practice, because thank you very much. Because, as I say to you from this afternoon, from now on, of course – as I am a personal acquaintance and I can treat by name all the entrepreneurs of the polygon – so I will inform you of their part and of the Government of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u233	Thank you, Mr. Novoa. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u234	Thank you, President. Your Honor, since the commitment of the Galician Union to the connection of San Cibrao das Viñas to A-52 is firm and clear. Because we're talking about a new infrastructure that is strategic to contribute to competitiveness and also economic dynamism. A bet that we are materializing thanks to the 15 million euros of Feder funds that we have guaranteed and we have achieved. But also the autonomous accounts of next year, in the 2016 budgets of the Infrastructure and Living Council, collect various actions to boost economic development. And this action, the connection of the San Cibrao das Viñas polygon to A-52 has a specific accounting project and has a prominent place in the 2016 budgets, with a budget split of 1.2 million euros, and the fund reserve is also guaranteed for the following years. The project of mapping and environmental impact is currently being monitored. I have to say that the proceedings, of course, are very advanced, which will allow us next week the Official Journal of Galicia can publish the public information on this project of tracing that we are monitoring, finalizing supervision. At the same time, we will also work so that this year 2015 we will call for the drafting of the constructive project. The goal is that the drafting of this constructive project is done in 2016, once the public information is finished and this project is approved. So we're talking about concrete commitments, scheduled departures, and also planned calendars to boost this connection that we consider strategic. It will therefore allow the company demand, also the citizen demand, to promote the mobility of displacements to this industrial area, also new facilities for industries to grow and also new opportunities for the Industrial Polygon of San Cibrao das Viñas to become a hub for attracting new investments. In short, we're working to boost this key infrastructure, to boost business and economic activity in Ourense province, and therefore in Galicia, because the best connections in general, but more, it fits, the ones that surround the business ground, are essential elements for improving competitiveness and hence for progress in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the measures envisaged by the Council of Galicia to provide the Death Coast with a quality public transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I too look forward to the good news – but we're going on our way to Christmas and see if there's any luck – to see if thank you I don't know whether to a miracle, or for your good action, at last your countrymen on the Coast of Death have a public transport, I'm not going to say great, but reasonable anymore, because what we have right now is a real disaster. Look, you, in your presence at Commission 3a, a few days ago, mentioned that you were hoping that more than 80% of the population in Greece was less than 15 minutes away from a high-capacity track. Most of the citizens of the Costa da Morte are about to be able to move to the hospital, health centres, educational centres or administrative centers, within the region itself, through public transport. Why? Because, after the segregation of the concession that was made in your day to Arriva and three other companies, what happens? It happens that companies do not agree, they don't coordinate schedules... –I, if you think so, ask Mr. Centeno the question, that there's no problem. [[Murmurs.]] Sure, what's the result? The result is – and you tell him, because, in addition, he's from the area, and some council also finds me that he's moved directly –... I don't think there's a single county on the Coast of Death that hasn't approved motions, agreements, or that some mayor has transferred directly to the Councillor's office the disaster that is public transport on the Coast of Death. And this with the Coruña; with Santiago, there are municipalities that practically do not have a single line that communicates them with the capital of Galicia. And this is especially serious, Counsellor – and I am also aware of it – because this affects mostly the most dependent Persians: the older people who have no meat, or who drive with difficulty; the people with pathologies, who have to go to hospital centers or to specialist consultations, etc., etc. What's the result? The result is that we are even having a problem, with complaints before the councils, of intrusion in transport, because there is always a well-intrusioned neighbour that one day takes you because you like it, but that then turns it almost, almost, into an activity that generates protests, complaints and complaints from the transport professionals, such as the taxi drivers, who are also less and less, because all of this has been degrading. You also tell me that files have been initiated, but we also find that companies do not do any cases, Counselor. And this has to have a solution, because living on the Death Coast -- and so my colleagues move me, also in other districts of Galicia -- doesn't have to mean an additional punishment, because these companies have a concession practically in a monopoly regime. So either they meet the conditions, or you make them meet them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u238	Thank you, President. Your Honor, public transport has certainly constituted a social necessity for the population as a whole, but especially for those citizens of the municipalities and of the places that are geographically far from the big cities, the head cities and the capital of the province. Of course, I am aware of the need and importance for public transport to guarantee the displacement of neighbors – as you say – to go to the hospital, to go to school, to the study place, and that is why our priorities, of course, are to offer quality public transport. And in the particular case of the Costa da Morte, as you said, of my neighbours of the Costa da Morte, you know that the offer of transport is essentially structured into two axes: the walls-the-girl, which communicates Santiago and the Atlantic façade; and the Fisterra-Cee axis, which communicates the entire region with the Coruña. And there are also other axes, other communications, like those of Bergantiños and Santiago de Compostela. The different companies – it is true – operating in this area have moved the difficulties of maintaining this service, but, Your Honor, it is not new. As you said, the Bipartite Arrival Restructuring called for a public service minority, done by you. In any case, Your Honor, we are studying the rigor for adapting services to real demand. You'll share with me that it's not logical for buses to go empty, not only for road safety, but also for environmental effects; I think it'll be with me. So, we will work rigorously and discipline to adapt that offer to real demand, well known by transport companies, but, of course, we will not do what companies ask us to do, know that we have many requests and that we file them, and we must work to get a useful and sustainable transport. And of course, the board won't tolerate a public service dealership fulfilling his obligations and doing what he wants; we won't tolerate it, of course. We are carrying out an intense public service inspection task, ensuring compliance with the contract. As soon as we were able to record unilateral abolition without authorization, we carried out inspections: 11 sanctioning files in one month, 10 of them very serious, for not carrying out shipments of transport, and 1 of them serious, for not using the authorized vehicle. I think the facts are simple. With what I have just said, of course, firmness and rigour, how we are acting, and ensuring compliance with public services; what we want, of course, is a quality public service, a useful public transport service and also sustainable. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u239	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u240	Counselor, theory is fine, but you have obligations beyond theory. The theory and the principles that I have just outlined here, I think we have all subscribed to them: the importance of public transport, that there can be no discrimination on the grounds of residence and, above all, that there can be no discrimination on the grounds of residence and social status, because it affects people with less resources and more dependent than other kinds of people. Sure, tell me, 11 files. We know that files have been started. But, Counsellor, I also tell you right now that there is not one single of the concessionary lines of the Coast of Death – and I was already surprised that the Bipartite had nothing to do with this – but who has to rule is you, who has to apply the conditions under which you have been helped, and you can't take responsibility for someone many years ago. You have to demand business conditions. And, look – to count and, besides, to transmit it to them and to see it in printed form –, not one of them is meeting the conditions of the concession. Not a single one! And more so, I think the inspectors are going down the bus door and they're already warning the next one to jump certain stops. Counsellor, there are communications from the councils – and you tell them, because I know it – that they are constantly moving them that they do not meet the conditions, even in those cases where the company has made a public commitment. There are publications in the comarcal press – and I know that you also have news about it – where it is expressly said that companies continue to fail and are still hesitant about the agreements they make with mayors, with collectives, and that they have even done it publicly, with a mouthful, with you. So, Counselor, the question is not to describe the problem, we know what it is. The point is that the Galician Council has to enforce the conditions of the concession or, if not, they have to withdraw these companies and withdraw another tender. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u242	Thank you, President. Of course, at the Galician Summit we strongly demand the concessionaire companies that meet their obligations with public service, especially transport, would be less short! I hope you're not telling me to do it by breaking the law; I do it by complying with the law. It's also the maximum for inspectors, public officials, who do their job the way they should do it. What I have to say is what it is, that we act with the utmost speed as soon as we got to know what that company did that you commented on without authorization and unilaterally, that we carry out inspections, that we urge them to re-establish the service and that we start eleven sanctioning files in a month. That's our job, and there we will continue, vigilantes, we will remain very careful and continue with the inspections, so that they will fulfil their obligations. And as for the sanctioning files, if we proceed, of course, we will do it, but with the legality ahead, because, although we are aware that it is necessary to adapt the supply to the real demand, I again tell you what I said in my first intervention: I don't think we all want the buses here to go empty, because it creates road safety problems and also environmental problems, that we can avoid. What we have to do and we defend is that in no case do these companies unilaterally do that, and we're not going to tolerate it. But in the German Government we want to ensure the maintenance of the best public transport benefits on the Coast of Death, betting on the quality of services and maximum territorial coverage, and to this responds the Metropolitan Transport Plan, which today benefits 65 municipalities. The 2016 board budgets also respond on that line. In public accounts there is an important provision for the bidding of the system-to-demand planning project, which will allow us a new planning throughout the transport network; that is, planning to give, of course, the best service to our neighbours. This demand transport system for comarcas such as the Death Coast will undoubtedly be the best option to guarantee the service and to ensure maximum coverage of public transport. It is EUR 2.5 million in total, 5 million European funds, a new collective transport model, which will be fully operational from 2016 onwards. But we're not limited to this, parallel to this, we're also going to perform and we're doing actions that benefit the price of travel to the neighbors of Carballo. We also increased the offer with the school bus, a line in Coristanco and three in Mazaricos... of course, improving services for the year 2016. We're planning to improve the service. What I was telling you at first is that we want useful transport, sustainable transport, and we are not going to tolerate the unilateral provision of public transport concessionaires. We will act with all force, but with all legality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of the Galga de Left alternative, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the referral to the Galician Parliament of the report drawn up by a consultant on the project of the new hospital in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u244	You have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u245	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. You've just inherited Mrs Mosquera's failed management and you've just taken over Mr Feijóo's health management, which is responsible for the destruction of public health. There's an inheritance! The new Vigo hospital that just inherited as a problem is a total case; it exemplifies as nothing else the failure of the People's Party and Mr Feijóo's policy in health matters. From the beginning we denounce the social, political and health consequences that could have a public-private hospital and that we are now proving in reality. We denounce, in addition, contractual non-compliances. As you know, this work – this contract – has been qualified as a public works concession, when we are talking about a concession, or, let's say, a contract of work and the provision of public-private collaboration services. The funding, as you know, had to be the risk and adventure of the concessionary company and, finally, it ended being the Galician Union that sought this funding through public credits, including the European Investment Fund and a risk capital fund belonging to the ICO. Among these things, besides, therefore, it is inconsistent with the criterion that it was not computable as a public debt. Delivery deadlines have been met. You know, in addition, that we denounced him in 2014, when he finished the delivery period. The size – despite the cliffs that Mr. Feijóo moved this morning – as to the number of beds, as to the number of emergency beds, as to the number of UCI beds, etc. The hospital is, sir, a big chapuza, where there are continually problems, where the infrastructures do not meet the criteria of a 21st century hospital, with rupture of pipes, with open ceilings, with lifting floors, with walls where you can't hang weight, etc., etc. That's all you know. And despite that, it seems that the work has been received, and we are forced to pay to the Greeks and to the Greeks for 20 years, 68 million euros. In addition, there are responsibilities, in addition to political responsibilities. One, give the engineering office subcontracted by Galaria to that company of Mrs. Ana Sánchez, that you just said they just quit, but that's fake, because the company has a contract for two years. By the way, a contract that you refuse to transfer to this Member. At first, there was also a report by Price Waterhouse – which is the subject of this question – which cost 220,000 euros, and is missing. This report, which, in theory, should advise on the temporary union of companies and how the funding of the hospital is obtained. Mr Counsellor, where is the report? Are you going to make it easier for the House to provide information to these Members and Members, or are you going to continue to hide information about their chapuza?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u247	Good morning, Mr. President, Your Honor, good day to all. The fact is that it is surprising that the honourable Member complains that she has not had access to this report, which is one of the other insults to health policy. And I say it's surprising, Madam, because this report has been submitted to public information, not now but in January 2010. I don't know if you have it, but I have here DG number 17 on Wednesday, January 27, which says exactly: "Resolution of January 20, 2010, of the Directorate of Economic Resources, so that public information is submitted the study of the economic and financial viability of the award of public works, for the drafting of the project, financing, construction and operation of certain non-clinical services, complementary to the new hospital in Vigo." As I say, it's in the Official Journal of Galicia. I think it was published, they could have access perfectly. I understand that if they had it and that this is just a way to mess it up. But also to tell you that the resolution established that the document will be available for one month for its evaluation by the companies interested in participating in the project. Total transparency. They were able to access it – as I say – in this Sergas Economic Resources Directorate, in the dependencies of the then Vigo University Complex Administration and in the Territorial Health Department of the same city. Your Honor, I would like to point out to you that one thing is that you don't share the model chosen for construction and put into operation of the new Vigo hospital – something you should usually beat with facts, speech and not insults – and another very different thing is to question their legality or transparency in their processing. Because for that they have many ways, if they think there's something illegal, to take it and report it. The process involved a lot of effort, work and illusion from many people, from many professionals who had a common goal: to equip Vigo and southern Galicia with a pointing hospital and with the best supplies. It was carried out with all guarantees and with maximum transparency, fulfilling, as could not be otherwise, with the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. And it has all the preceptive reports favourable to technicians, the recruitment table, legal advice and intervention. The hospital project was already framed within the sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence, approved in February 2009, and in parallel to this sectorial project, the declaration of environmental impact was processed. It must be remembered that, in the face of the economic crisis, much of the projects that were underway throughout Spain had to be reformulated and many had to be abandoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u248	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u249	You start wrong, Mr. Padre, saying that I insult when I don't insult. That the hospital... – please, ladies and gentlemen, I am intervening. [[Protests.]] That the hospital is a real chapuza jumps into the view, and I don't think I should describe it here as the center. I think you've been there before, I've described all kinds of infrastructure impacts, and I'm surprised that, if you have the report there, don't give it to us, because we've been demanding it since we entered this House. And you will know that in 2010 this honourable Member was not a Member, and I was not used to reading the DOG daily and downloading the documents published in it. It's an insult you say here that we had a month to see that report in 2010, when we weren't public officials or we were in this Parliament. But well... please, I'd pray for silence, because... [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Mrs. Paula Prado, if you want to intervene, you'll have some turn in some intervention, but not in this one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u250	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u251	Mr. Counselor... it's just that, really... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u252	Quiet, please! Mrs. Prado! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence to all, we're finished. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u253	Well, if you have the report there, you'll have no problem making it easier. And it won't be a problem to make you public what were the recommendations and why, despite the results, you allow yourself to receive this work, which is with tremendous characteristics, in which the hospital falls to pieces, and which will cost us 68 million euros for 20 years to all Greeks and Greeks. Because I remind you – and you say we have facilities to ask for information – that Junta is denying this Member – as the Bureau of Parliament has already confirmed – the data and reports concerning the recruitment of the company of the Vice-Councillor of the Madrid Health Council, Ana Sánchez, who follows – I repeat – into force two years after the opening of the centre. Counsellor, have you given the data to this Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Replica, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u255	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that in 2010 what was not a Member was I, surely, and now neither, of course. [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that doesn't mean I didn't have to have information. Because you understand that it belongs to an organization, it's not an individual, it's a person who belongs to an organization. [[Murmurs.]] And look, if I'm at the hospital. Yeah, I was in the hospital, and the truth is, I was before I was a counselor, I was a counselor, at four days, and I came back this week over there. Unlike the visits I make, I don't have a camera, I'm going to see and talk to the professionals and talk to the unions, and to all the representatives who want to make a big hospital. [[Applause]] It seems a lie that you, being Vigo, being from the health profession, don't make a common cause in saying that this hospital is the greatest challenge we have in Welsh health for many years. And, of course, the Vigo area, which we always said we needed more health infrastructure, was something we needed. And right now, that a person in the health sector and Vigo is continually attacking our hospital, I think it's tremendous, tremendous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, look, the report they're always saying they've been able to get to know him perfectly, his organization is sure. Tell him he didn't cost what he said it cost; it cost 20,000 euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I think the most important thing that we have is to build positively, because it's probably going to be where a lot of people in the Vigo metropolitan area have to go through, and I think the facilities are modern facilities, European installations, which we have to fix -- and that's what I think is the fundamental function I have to play for as long as I'm a counselor -- to coordinate and let professionals work, which are the ones who know, those who have to build the hospital, and not with pitfalls and political use by groups like you're taking to this House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Of course, I'm not going to resign, because I think Vigo's challenge is an important challenge that we have to defend all the Greeks. And, of course, the Galician Union, in the figure of its president, Mr. Feijóo, had the courage, at a difficult time, to bet on Vigo, and we continue to bet on Vigo. Therefore, I say, Mrs. Solla, I think you are old enough to change your attitude, you have many years to correct and collaborate with Vigo, the Vigo area, the Vigo hospital and the Vigo health services. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Da Carmen Adán Villamarín's question from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the recovery of the validity of Article 19 of the Single Labour Convention of the Union of Galicia in the centres of Wellness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u257	Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u258	Thank you, President. We ask a question about a mine field, which is the Social Policy Council. The new advisor enters a council that, every time he sets foot, already has a problem. It was simply that the mines actually put them in the policy of Mr Feijóo and Mrs Beatriz Mato. We have here today, accompanying us, representatives of the workers of the Social Policy Centres, of those centres that have been carrying out – yes, Counsellor – during these years performing a slave labor. These centres, which, through Law 1/2012, of temporary means in certain public employment matters in Galicia – which you, by the way, already have the ashes of this law in your office – are subject to certain conditions which the courts themselves – and here I have the third sentence – give them reason. Some conditions that mean a endangerment of their working conditions, but also of the service they provide. Because it's a service to people, it's a service to older people in the centers, the residences, the juvenile centers. A service that would require the commitment of the Government of Feijóo. And now what do we find? What policy is going to be followed from now on? Will the fifth collective agreement be restored after the judgements, after the remodeling of the Government? Are you going to have access to new material the Wellness Centres, or are you going to follow the way it is up to now, with a totally damaged and damaged material? If, in fact, you, beyond propaganda, believe in social policy, you already have to give the two cranes that you promised in Ferrol, and repose – it will seem insignificant – a washing machine in a residence, in the back of Castro. Three months – three months! – waiting for, or repairing the washing machine or buying a new one. What are they doing? Externalize the laundry. That's the reality. So today, the question is very clear, and it only has an answer, yes or no: will the working conditions of the workers of the centres that depend on the Social Policy Council be restored, and hence the article 19 be restored? Or are they going to keep accumulating judgments against them, like the three they already have? And also, are you going to reboot the material, the sheets, the cranes, the material you work with in Wellness Centers, which is in contact with people? Since you've been in government for 7 years, I haven't put off the equipment from the Wellness Centres, I haven't gone back, and they're in a lamentable situation right now. Tell me if you can wait three months to repair a washing machine! I'm waiting for a reply: yes or no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u260	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In March I came before this Parliament to present the Public Employment Act of Galicia. The bill was passed by the House on 29 April and published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 4 May 2015. The Public Employment Act contains commitments for the progressive recovery of conditions of employment affected by the Measures Act of 2012. In particular, the transitional provision of the second tenth of this law provides for the creation of a remuneration fund for the progressive recovery of public employees' salaries. This fund has to be provided in the budgets of 2016 and 2017, and is destined for two things: the first one, progressively returning 100% of the outstanding payment abolished in 2012; and the second one, to restore on a consolidated basis the payment of the two additional payments that have to do with the specific supplement. In the May payroll, public employees received the refund of up to 25%, and in September I returned to this Parliament to present an extraordinary law with which we completed the 50% return of the 2012 payment by 2015. Even today, public employees are receiving in their October payroll that 25%, as we commit ourselves. On the occasion of my appearance on September 29th, I made another announcement, which was textually that the next day we would call the representatives of public employees from the Town Council to begin negotiating the return of days of free will and additional vacations depending on the age. In his written question he refers precisely to that announcement, and he is also interested in the progress that has taken place later. Well, let us inform you that, as I promised on September 30, we have already met with the trade union organizations, with which, after we presented them with a draft agreement, we finally reached an agreement, which was signed by three of the four organizations present at the General Bureau of Public Employees; namely UXT, Workers' Commissions and CISF. By virtue of this agreement, Galicia becomes the first autonomous community that affects the complete replenishment of additional days of free will, and the additional ones that have to do with antiquity, as vacations. Thanks to this agreement, Galician public employees are already enjoying them, since the 20th of this month. As you see, Your Honor, the announcement I made is textual of the collection in this House, in my speech at the end of September, and the commitment is completely covered. You also tell me about the conditions of work and service services in the welfare centers. Well, about the organization of work on these devices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u261	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. [[Protests.]] I'll leave it, but don't protest, I'll let it end, but then don't protest. Well, yes, Counselor, finish, finish the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u262	Thank you for your consideration. As for the organization of work of these devices, in July of this year the Board of Directors approved the amendment of the RPT, which was subsequently published in August, where it is envisaged for the social services area, specifically 155 new workplaces. Obviously, these 155 workplaces allow, through the corresponding organizations and shifts of work, an effective provision of public services much easier than it has been since now; therefore, there is a harmonisation and balance in the work registers. And it has to be pointed out that these new squares were 155 new, of which 88 are full-day squares, and 63 are weekend squares. Therefore, the creation of net employment in this sector will enable this reinforcement of cartels, and will allow for greater and better provision of services for this collective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u263	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u264	Yes, thank you very much for your answer. We were very interested in hearing the workers' own representatives. Because, look, it's 1,500 squares in the wellness area that were cut according to the figures of the workers and workers. And you give me an answer – which we've already had in commission – that is to say 155. But look, the question is this: Will Article 19 of the Convention be restored, yes or no? You don't have to read me leaflets, nor does the councillor, who I think is going to meet with social policy workers tomorrow, have to go around a lot. Just answer: answer a specific article, article 19, which led to the modification of posters and a literally slave regime in the work of welfare centers, or will not rest. There's no need for literature or anything else. Whether we're here or not, we're at peace today. So the question is very clear: in the face of the judgments that clearly give reason to the workers and the workers, what will the Government do? I don't care if it's the Business Council, Social Policy or President Feijó himself if he's in charge of this. What are you going to do? Will you go back to Article 19 and therefore go back to a regime that allows you to reconcile your family and work life, allow you to have holidays, not to be the biggest hit by this 2012 Act of measures, or not, or not to be restored to them? That's what they have to answer. And since they're also here, if they're going to be back to them -- I don't care what money is, what advice, whether it's from Fedanda or social policy -- because the material in the wellness centers. Because we're obviously talking about people, and the workers have been working through these years with the regime that you put them through these fraudulent posters. They demand a washing machine, claim cranes, claim sheets, and the least a government can do is equip its centers with material and not continue to outsource. So, Counselor, yes or no? I don't care either one of you here can answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Answer, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u266	Thank you again, Mr. President. You will again talk about working conditions – I will not use your epithetes – the provision of services and the provision of services in this type of facility. From my point of view, as I said earlier, there are four factors that we must take into account in the provision of work. One is the beginning of the labor relationship; one second, the salary; one third, the working time; and one fourth, the end of the relationship. I believe that in all of them we are acting in a more than correct way. First of all, as far as wages are concerned, you well know that overall there is 1% increase for 2016, while in 2016 it is guaranteed in the budget what is the total recovery of what was the extra payment, or the equivalent for this type of collective within the workforce. At the same time, in working time, he was already getting ahead of us that there are two factors that we need to put into practice. On the one hand, what are the days for private affairs, and which are derived from the trade union agreement also signed. By the way, we are the first community to do so throughout Spain. In the same way that we should value what the net creation of these 155 squares means, most of them in full working time, and most of them, given the specificity of this type of centres, in the current situation, as it refers to the weekend. Obviously that means there will be a clear improvement. As for the last factor by me pointed out, as was the end of the labor relationship, or extinction, there are data that we do not know enough and that also have a lot of influence on the consideration of this staff and that they do not have the rest of the public employees, as can be early retirement from 61 years old, with which it does not count the rest of the public employees, and which assumes, for example, from 2013, when agreement is reached with the union centres, that at this time there are more than 441 people who have been accommodated to this, 135 of them in the field of social services. And finally, as far as the theme of the start-up in the employment relationship of each one is concerned, at the moment, in the recruitment, we intend during 2016 to exhaust to the maximum the situation that we did not have until this moment, because we have just changed the regulations that imposed on us the replacement rate, and go to the top of what would be the new OPE for 2016 on all devices, especially in the field of social services. For all this, Your Honor, in these four areas, in the field of wages, in the field of employment, in the field of retirement, in the field of working time, I believe that there is a very good improvement in the working conditions of all these groups. In conclusion, we find ourselves in a framework of progressive recovery, it is undeniable that we are in a framework of progressive recovery of working conditions, depending on always on the availability of budgets, and always in recognition of the much effort that public employees have made, namely, in particular, the workers who provide their services in the area of social services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u267	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the forecasts of the new Social Policy Adviser with regard to the agreement with social representatives of news workers working in the residences of older persons, juvenile centres and care centres for persons with disabilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u268	You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u269	Mr Counsellor, although he has just arrived, he probably has sufficient knowledge in papers to know that there have been multiple rulings on the question of what we have now come to talk about – Mrs. Adam – particularly about the work assignments of the workers of our country's social welfare centres. In particular, each and every one of the falls has been brought down in collective conflict mode by all the demands that have been raised, and the last of them was the sentence issued on September 30 of this same year 2015, in which once again they give reason to the workers, to the demanding class unions, and again say quite gross things in these legal texts, as it is – and I quote literally – that there is evidence of the Council's absolute lack of interest in the proposals made by the workers themselves and workers. Secondly, this judgment says that they do not even make an attempt on the part of the Council to examine them, and even on that claim that the Council for the Well-being of the woman who was partially terminated – Mrs. Mato – has had to do with those positions that called immobilisers of the works committees, said this court that they are not at all certain. But you know that all of these are judgments that have won the workers, you know that it's certainly embarrassing that a councillor is acting like this, that he's being thrown down his shift every year for lack of negotiation and even for not adjusting to the current legislation. I suppose you know, as we just discussed earlier, that Article 19 of the V Collective Convention of the Single Administration is indeed suspended, that it has brute consequences for the workers of the welfare centres, that they are preventing the workers from actually, many of them – and surely afterwards going through the workplaces – who rest on a Sunday every three weeks. There are workers who are still serving seven days a week. There are workers who are in a position, as the rulings say, who speak of abusive, exhausting, exhausting days. And I suppose you also know – by the absentee health adviser, even if we ask you – the number of work absenteeism data due to illness in the working conditions that are providing the services to the workers of the welfare centres – at least this vocabulary has not been given –. So, Counsellor, will you continue to breach the judgments, as Mrs. Mato has so far done, yes or no? Secondly, are you going to negotiate work shifts with business committees, yes or no? And thirdly, Counsellor, we would also like to know, at the end of the previous debate, whether you will repeal that Law 1/2012 of February 29, or even recover article 19 of the Fifth Convention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Mr. Counsellor's response to social policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer and complement what the Councilman of Fairy has already said, given that they were talking about two questions that have to do with the workers in my Social Policy department. Certainly, the work through posters has become one of the most discrepancies and conflicts in businesses and public administrations, since the shift worker is the one who performs his services at different times in a given period of days and weeks. Where it expresses a tyrannical attitude on the part of this council that harms the work health of the staff serving in the aforementioned centres, and which thus becomes manifest, in theory, in judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, it should be made clear that these two judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which they refer to are that, on the one hand, they do not affect the cartels of the four provinces, but only those of the territorial head of the Crown, and that, on the other hand, they condemn the administration for a faulty negotiation of the cartels in a collective suit, without in that case any individual prejudice caused to any worker, and, consequently, of what they speak is a faulty negotiation. By leaving things clear, these judgments analyze a very specific circumstance of the posters: the negotiation of shifts in the province of Coruña exclusively in two specific periods, in 2013 and 2014. Of this particular circumstance, of the faulty negotiation of the cartels, these judgments come to which it relates. As the councillor of Fairy said, at this moment we have 155 new jobs in the employment relationship of the Social Policy Council, 68 new positions of nursing assistants, 26 caregivers and 27 cleaning waiters. Today they're covered practically all of them. Clearly, the more jobs you are busy in all the services we have to perform, the easier it is to comply with a negotiation scenario. What asks me – with conviction –: the will of this counselor. The will is to move forward in the process of creating and stabilising employment for the staff of the Social Policy department, which I hope will result in an improvement in working conditions, which will serve as a catalyst for public employees to know that they are fundamental to the provision of public services and well-being.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u272	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u273	Counselor, we begin well, you will indeed follow the path of Mr. Feijóo and, I am most concerned, of Mrs. Mato, the absent counselor. Counselor, you can look aside at any sentence you want. What the rulings are saying forcefully is that it has not been negotiated, and therefore the shift of work has been imposed on itself by the Department of Social Services of the Council of Galicia. Something very serious, Mr. Counselor, very serious, and you know it because it comes from right, like me. The judgments are powerful. So the question is, will you correct this policy, will you sit down and negotiate, yes or no? Second question: not all of the 155 squares are covered. And if so, besides, and if there is no obstacle, what problem is there in putting into force Article 19 of the V Collective Convention and guaranteeing the working rights of workers – and I speak in women because almost all sound – of our country's welfare centers? And the worst, Counselor. I suppose you know exactly what conditions they work on. It's been talked about before. They don't have cranes, they're sick, they can't even have rights, because of the policies of the People's Party, the necessary breaks, not weekly -- I insist -- one Sunday every three weeks. Counselor, if this isn't slavery, it's there, looking pretty much like that. And the question is simple: will I correct politics or not? Very simple, that is, in 2016, are you going to negotiate with the workers or the workers or not? I know that tomorrow you're going to meet with the business committees not to deal with this, you're going to meet up for two complaints that have made you the center of Caranza's residence and another theme, not because of this. So, just as they're listening to us, please be clear. Will they continue on the authoritarian path, imposing newspapers that pronounce abusive and stressful judgments intolerable in the 21st century?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u275	Or, I insist, will you guarantee the labour rights of them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u277	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u278	Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u279	Mrs. Díaz, ladies and gentlemen, I see that it was not clear in my first answer what was the answer to the question that is put in writing and that it is amplifying in this plenary. The truth is that I have to adapt to this in the parliamentary issue, because in the citizen's issue the obligation of any public representative is to answer to everything they ask, and with much more reason a representative of this House, Mrs Díaz, so I'm going to answer not one question but three questions; telling you, Mrs Díaz, that improving the conditions of public employees is fundamental to any government, and that we need to have an economic stability to allow it. New squares have brought new costs... you've taken over three minutes, let me, because as it is to answer the question, I'll tell you... I'll tell you, Mrs. Díaz, yes or no to answer you very clearly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] But you've used three minutes, let me tell you that to cover squares it's necessary to have them budgeted. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Budgets from the Autonomous Community must increase so that the different departments can improve the conditions. Negotiation, yes or no? Negotiation is yes; on all the aspects that the works council wants to move, not to a table of these, at last, to the councillor himself, on tomorrow. I saw the application, I answered immediately, and personally I will meet, as I am obliged, with the company committee, on tomorrow. [[Murmurs.]] Covered prizes? The will is to cover the covered squares. Conditions in which they work, material? [[Murmurs.]] Before the end of this year there will be new material in the public centers of the Social Policy department, before the end of this year. I'll also ask the Labour Representatives what places are the most urgent, I'll ask the Labour Representatives what is the most urgent material. We'll reach out to everything that the increased budget provisions of my board allow us to. But, of course, I'm telling you -- because I see that I have time -- negotiation is, yes, the councillor is going to sit with the business committees tomorrow. There's absolutely nothing going on. [[Murmurs.]] We're going to sit down to find the best solutions, to give everyone a better service to people. [[Murmurs.]] Besides for the works committees, of course, my door will always be open to representatives of parliamentary groups to talk about material, to talk about squares, and also to citizens, so I will visit all the centers. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-28-DSPG127.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Out of items on the agenda, session up.
