ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u1	Please take your seats, we're going to restart the session. Well, we resumed the meeting with agenda item 6, which are the questions for oral reply by the President of Galician Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the policy developed by the Union of Galicia with the local administrations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u2	Please be quiet, please. To put his question, you have the word of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u3	Mr President, election time; therefore, time of balance. You, in the last election program, promised many things to the municipalities of Galicia; they promised, for example, a new law of local regime. Instead, the state government started a reform of the Spanish Town Councils which intended, no less, to suppress 20,000 concellers, to merge or eliminate thousands of municipalities, and they said to save 7 billion euros. In fact, what they were pursuing was to withdraw competence from the councils in favour of Members. It was so scandalous that the mayors, even those of the People's Party, stood in the war and the rule was passed but by the back door: the autonomous communities, with the Government's agreement, have legislated that it would not enter into force today. Yes, the negative effects continue: social services today and many other welfare services in the municipalities are precarious – when not on the path of extinction –. Everything the state promised, the central government, in that norm – the standard cost, the evaluation of the costs of services, etc. – all of this became nothing. What's left was the precariousness installed in the services and the constant decline by the absolutely imperfect legal framework. I suppose you'll agree with this balance sheet. You proposed an unprecedented route in Spain with the fusion of the municipalities of Oza and Cesuras, which would open a new era in Spanish municipalism. Do you know what's left of your promises? Do you know how many jobs were created in that county? Do you have any idea where the synergies were left that would be provoked by fusion? I'll do it. You would coordinate public services in urban areas; they could not speak in any case. They even did something unpublished in European order: they did a metropolitan area without metropolis in Vigo. They haven't taken a single step in the integration of services or, for example, in the integrations of urban and interurban public transport. Today, by chance, a report is published that says that while in Spain public transport rises by 3%, in Galicia has dropped by 17% in one year, and what is going to accumulate is much more. Mr. President, the mayors asked you to transfer health centres. You guys have done nothing since 2011: there are 166 pendants, 29 files closed and 100 more in other situations. Local funding: 40% down, from 437 million to 290 million euros. Specific programmes: housing, zero; employment – as you always do not lose opportunity – have dropped 62%; territorial management, 85%...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u4	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u5	...trade, 65%. Are you satisfied with this balance sheet?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u6	Thank you. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, indeed, we are on the eve of municipal elections and this is the first time the Socialist Party has shown its concern about the local administration in Galicia. Which, as you can imagine, I appreciate the opportunity to speak about what we each do in relation to the councils and the deputies. [[Murmurs]] Your Honor, if you ask me what is the assessment of the Galician Council in relation to the current situation of the Greek Councils, we probably agree today that Galician Councils are more useful to citizens four years ago, and that Galician Councils are in a situation of greater economic solvency than they were four years ago. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that the Greek councils, as a general rule, have done a good job these years. Why? Because they have improved the situation of their accounts, because they have improved their institutional situation and because there is greater unpublished cooperation, greater cooperation among the municipalities of the Autonomous Community. Your Honor, have the Greek Town Councils improved their accounts? The answer is yes. First, because the Government of Spain has put in sufficient resources so that all the municipalities – the Greeks too – could pay their suppliers, and today the Greek municipalities are solvents. Secondly, because there was a municipal commitment to budgetary stability. And thirdly, because there was a better rigour in management. The Galician Council formally requested the municipalities to submit their accounts in time to the Board of Auditors in order to receive the Board's grants. When we got to the government it was only 18% of the municipalities, today it's 82%. Your Honor, I believe that the Board has also collaborated and, in fact, we have not only kept the Local Cooperation Fund, but we have not injected into it the decrease in the income of the Galician Union. I mean, we kept the Local Cooperation Fund even though they lowered the income of the Autonomous Community. We created a canon, the wind canon. You know I didn't charge the windmills installed in Galicia. We, with that cannon, raised 40 million euros at the disposal of the municipalities. In other words, last year, for example, in 2014, the Galician Union transferred 300 million euros to the Greek municipalities – although I insist that the community's assumptions were less than those of the other years –. Secondly, you speak of the law of local regime. Indeed, the Government of Spain has made a law of local regime with positive aspects: it eliminates duplication, clarifys competences, homologates mayoral salaries so that it does not do what it wants, and achieves budgetary stability. What did we do here? Adapting that law to Galician problems. What did you guys do? They voted against it. Yes, in Andalusia they made a law like ours, the Socialist Party. In Castile and León they made a law like ours, and the Socialist Party voted for it. You in Galicia voted against. That's a big difference. In the field of mergers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u8	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u9	...you in Galicia voted against. In the Metropolitan Area Act, you in Galicia voted against; and in metropolitan transport, you in Vigo voted against. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u10	You have the word, for the reply, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u11	I see it, with all due respect, a little thick. To say that this group has not put forward initiatives – I know that for you social services is not a relevant topic – are counted for dozens, practically at all, and almost all refer to local affairs, agricultural affairs, or forest affairs. It seems to me that you, whoever reports it, report it fatal. How can you say they kept the local funding? He's been down 40 percent for the years you've been in front of the government. Mr. President, you don't even listen to yours. His men sent Fegamp, and Fegamp sent him very explicit documents about what the situation of municipalism is. They asked him to make these unconditional subsidies conditional – not a euro of increase – but they didn't want to do it; environmental compensation fund, it reduced. But instead, they increased the water cannon, the Sogama cannon, and now they want to put, multiply, the cost of services integrated into the consortium of social affairs. Neither the Health Adviser, nor the President's, nor the Mayor's are answering the mayor's demands. They don't know, they don't answer. Mr President, last legislation: the Committee on Local Cooperation has never met; the Committee on the Local Covenant has not met for three years; there has been an agreement of this Parliament to make a report on the situation of municipalism in Galicia; it is kidnapped – like that of the Bioethics Commission –. You guys, when you don't like paper, you're kidnapped. It was a parliamentary mandate – don't you remember? – it was the opinion of the experts. Why can't you talk to Fegamp, receive the mayors and unlock the problems? Mr. President, you're following a destructive policy with the municipalities: you don't legislate, you don't fund, you don't have a proper legal framework and there's no dialogue. The first problem in the municipalities today is funding. Tell me, at least, when the transfers of health centres are going to be effective.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u12	Thank you very much. You have the floor, for the reply, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u13	Your Honor, with all due respect, we agreed with the Fegamp many more things than you when you were in the Government. I still remember Fegamp's misdeed with the rules of habitat and the bipartisan's housing law. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, in urbanism, in addition, we have agreed to incorporate the Fegamp proposals into the Land Law. You're going to vote for them, aren't you? In health we assume 51 health centres in full economic recession, how do you say we don't assume any? Fifty-one. Your Honor, in social services, what we're going to do is forgive the debts in which, when you were ruling, the municipalities were incuring, and we're going to forgive you 50% of the debts they had with a consortium of social services from the biparty. In emergencies we made a digital network to favor the municipalities, the digital network of the Galician Union at their disposal. And the new emergency map of the Autonomous Community was agreed upon with Fegamp. In transport we made the metropolitan transport plans that exist in Galicia, all with the governments of the socialists: in Coruña, Santiago, Lugo and Ferrol – yes, the same document we agreed with the socialist mayors did not apply to Vigo. Your Honor, in electronic administration everything we are doing – free – with Fegamp and all the municipalities and deputies of Galicia are at your disposal. Your Honor, we have made an agreement with the four deputies for social services; all of them have served except Place – after the signal, that is so. In the wind canon, I insist, 40 million euros for the municipalities; and, in the Local Cooperation Fund, while Asturias and other autonomous socialist communities lower it, we kept it despite the decline in the income of the Union. Your Honor, what are you talking about? Are you telling me that we have agreed with Fegamp nothing more and nothing less than the great themes affecting the municipalities? The reform of the Land Law, the reform of the rules of habitat, the implementation of electronic administration, the stabilization of the Local Cooperation Fund, the generalization of advances in the subsidies of local authorities... what are we accused of, gentlemen? Besides, not only that. It's just that for us all the municipalities are the same. Do you know what city we've been investing in since I'm president of the board? In Vigo, with a two-party government – although there only one-man. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know which province we've been investing in since I'm president of the Union? [[Murmurs.]] In Lugo. The largest per capita investment in Galicia since I am president of the Union, Lugo: EUR 837 per citizen. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, do you want to talk about discrimination? Ask the mayors of Lugo. 64% of Lugo's mayorates democratically won the People's Party. Do you know what the June budget is for 64% of Lugo Town Councils? Excuse me: do you know how much is the investment of Deputy of Lugo in 64% of the municipalities of Lugo? Ten percent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u14	It's over, president. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u15	In 30 per cent of the municipalities of Lugo are ruling the Socialist Party and the BNG, that is 90 per cent of the budget of the Deputy; 64% of the municipalities of Lugo are governed by the PP, that is 10 per cent of the budget of the Deputy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u17	Mr. Méndez Romeo, if you want lessons from local administration, never speak of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the valuation of Galician loss of more than 17,000 inhabitants in a year
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u18	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, I don't know if you know that in the mid-19th century Galicia was the most densely populated territory of the Spanish state. The population of Greece accounted for 11.5% of the total population of the Spanish State. I would ask the Members of the People's Party to listen with a little respect and attention. I know that the country's demographic disaster doesn't matter very much, but they let it expose the question, if they do the favor. As I said, centuries and a half ago, the population of Galicia accounted for 11.5% of the population of the total Spanish state. In other words, in a century and a half our relative weight was reduced by more than half. Perhaps there is no more illustrative fact about how the modern Spanish state's conformation as a unitary and centralist state, which condemned us to dependence, brought with it the decline of our country. But the worrying thing, Mr Feijóo, is that this trend, instead of being corrected, is getting worse. Look, first it was the INE who gave the alarm signal. In a single year, Galicia lost more than 17,000 residents, especially young people and immigrants, despite being the second community in the Spanish state with less foreign population. Look, Mr. Feijóo: Immigrants who have escaped, a striking fact, because, listening to you in the control sessions, one would think that in Finland, Denmark, Sweden should be producing a massive exodus to Galicia, taking into account the extraordinary reality of our country, in your opinion. But look, the most alarming data gave us the demographic indicators of the IGE, some indicators that speak of a country that is at risk of being inviolable. 2013 ended with the worst crop balance in our history, and the data we know right now in 2014 go the same way. Since 2008, the percentage of the potentially dependent age population has only increased, and for every 160 people who retire in our country, there are only 100 young people or girls of age who enter the labour market. It's data that speaks of a demographic crisis more similar to a country punished by the devastating effects of a war, Mr. Feijóo. In just ten years, the population of Galicia has gone from 6,4a to 5,9 % of the state population. In ten years Galicia lost 150,000 Thursdays. Since 2009 147,000 people have emigrated from our country. And according to INE, in the next fifteen years Galicia will lose 230,000 inhabitants, practically the population of the city of Coruña. So, Mr. Feijóo, do you really think your policies are helping to deal with this demographic disaster? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u21	Your Honor, tell me about the middle of the 19th century, I'm going to try to stick to the 20th century and the 21st century. You say that in the middle of the 19th century we were more in the whole of Spain, and that's true, and that's because of centralist policies. I think in the 19th century there were many more centralist policies in Spain than those in the 21st century. But that is, as is natural, a problem of appreciation. Look, Your Honor, you're talking to me about a problem a year ago, which was the demographic problem, and now you're asking me again. As you know, Your Honor, the demographic problems of a country, a nation or a Europe are not solved in a year at all. What you do know is that Galician demographic problems have been managing for over 40 years. And that's why we've been warning about the demographic problem for some time now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You laugh about the demographic problem, because you understand that talking about the demographic problem is a right-wing issue, but now welcome to the country's real problem club. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, there are two reasons for the loss of inhabitants in Galicia and elsewhere in Spain and Europe. The first is negative vegetative growth, that is, there are more deaths than births. And the second is the smallest impact of immigration, that is, the number of foreigners coming to Galicia or Spain. Do you know that the negative crop balance since 1986 – 20th century – has fallen sharply year by year? I mean, we've had more deaths than we were born for thirty years. That's the situation. During the last thirty years there have been moments of kindness, there have been moments of crisis, even times where you were ruling. By the way, in Spain there were twenty-two years of government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, imagine the last thirty to rule in the country. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, we're on an equal vegetative balance at the time of kindness. Between 2000 and 2004, we lost 8,800 between deaths and births, and on average, since I've been president, we're equal to 8,823, exactly. What happens accordingly, Your Honor? That we continue to have fewer births than deaths. The second question – and I thank you for clarifying it – is not a problem of emigration, but it is a problem that foreigners come less to Galicia, exactly. Yes, Your Honor, in 2007 the number of foreigners coming to Galicia was 47,000 and now it's 27,000. [[Murmurs.]] So what's falling is the number of foreigners coming to Galicia, not the number of Greeks coming out of Galicia, as you say in the Tertulas and other less academic forums. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u22	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u23	Your Honor, what have we done? First of all, to consider at the investment session in 2009, as President of the Board, the demographic problem, to invite all groups of the House to join together, to consider a commission. You didn't accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u25	Let's make a plan. You didn't vote for it. Your Honor, Galicia is now the autonomous community with higher tax deductions of children from 1 to 3 years of age in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u27	Galicia is the autonomous community where most of Spain's kindergartens and childhood schools have increased, and if you want to keep talking about Galicia, I'll keep agreeing about Galicia; if you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u29	...they don't want to keep talking about Galicia, Your Honor, we're going to have to do it alone, as usual. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u30	Thank you. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u31	Mr. Feijó, please listen carefully. In ten years – we haven't talked about centuries and a half – we've passed from 6.4 to 5.9 % in relation to participation in the Spanish population. IGE, no BNG propaganda department. IGE, 2013, worst crop balance in history. IGE, since your rule, 150,000 people have emigrated. Instituto Galego de Statística. Look, Mr. Feijóo, the demographic problem is clear that it is not new, but its policies have only made it worse. You know what he says to EPA? That in Galicia it destroys more than twice as much employment as in the middle of the Spanish state and occupation only increases to part six. Data, by the way, corroborated by registered unemployment, which indicates that social security affiliations grow in Galicia well below the average of the Spanish state. We have an aging population. It's true, Mr. Feijó. But out of every 10 people of working age, only 4 have jobs. Doesn't that have to do with the demographic crisis? The occupancy rate between Thursdays is 32% and of the few who can work the temporality rate reaches 60%. Doesn't that have to do with the demographic crisis? Don't you have to see that women suffer with greater intensity from lack of employment, precariousness and poor wages? Look, Mr Feijóo, demographic problems are not only solved by tax incentives. The demographic problem is solved by betting on stable and quality employment, betting on equality and conciliation. And, above all, the demographic problem is struggling to defend Galicia's right to have its own economic base, and you don't, Mr. Feijóo. Look, we've often told you that you're not acting as president, you're acting as central government delegate. We don't just say it ourselves, Mr. Feijóo. Look what this gentleman says: Feijóo has a great profile to follow Rajoy's orders, Feijóo has a great profile to follow Rajoy's orders.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u32	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u33	That's what Pablo Casado, the electoral spokesman for his party, said. And do you know what is the consequence of your submission, Mr. Feijóo? Which is going to pass into history by turning the Greeks and the Greeks into species into danger of extinction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u35	Madam President, Your Honor, there is nothing like moderation. No doubt, Mr. Jorquera. Look, the decline of 17,000 people in the last year is similar to that of Spain. Not only is it similar to that of Spain the registered descent of the population, but from 17 autonomous communities in Spain, has lowered the population in 15. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are 6 autonomous communities with a higher population decline than Galicia: Asturias, 1%; Castela-León, 1%; Castela-A Mancha, 1%; Extremadura, 0.7%; A Rioxa, 0.7%; Cantabria, 0.6%; Galicia, 0.6%. When you tell me that since we got to the government, no kids are born, because the truth is that at least it's......you say yes, in recent years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to tell you, from year 5 to year 9, they were born in Galicia on average 21,991. [[Murmurs.]] Between the year 10 and the year 13 were born on average 21.114. Exactly, what are we accused of, Your Honor? When you were born the same number of boys in Galicia as when you actually ruled economically? Look, Your Honor, the problem of population aging is a problem you should know, it's a European problem. Do you know the country where the population has grown older and, therefore, where fewer birth-death relationships, the greater difficulty there is now in Europe? In Germany. In Germany, they ranged from 37.7 years to 45 years, on average. 7.3 years of population aging in the last ten years. The following country, Italy, 6.2. In Spain we have increased 6.5 years and in Galicia 6.5 years, exactly in the last ten years. Yes, Your Honor, this is the data. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand that the data doesn't interest you, but I do care, because it's my duty to study the data and give the data to the Greeks. The estimated migration flows – the INE you talk to me about. Well, you know that in Galicia the number of Thursdays between 20 and 34 years old who left Galicia is 0.97%, 0.97%, and in Spain, 2.37%. Therefore, Galicia is below the average of Spain in the number of young people who came out of the autonomous community. And you follow, you follow – as is natural – by saying what you want. There you are. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, you've ruled this country for four years. Do you remember any proposed government bipartisans in relation to demography? One, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor, they made a proposal, they made a proposal in 2008, when there were a few months left to finish the legislation, during the first three years there was no difficulty. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u36	Go finish, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u37	Your Honor, I repeat: we are the autonomous community with higher tax deductions for the birth of a child. We are the autonomous community with a greater increase in the number of children's schools; squares of children's schools, more than 70%. For the first time we are on the European Union's ratio of 33 squares per 100 children in the autonomous community. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are one of the autonomous communities, Your Honor, which has increased the paternity permit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u39	We are one of the autonomous communities that has best implemented the time flexibility of public employees and teleworking. Mr. Jorquera, the problems of Galicia are not so proud to deny them, but we are not so proud to blame those who don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u40	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u41	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u42	Let's move on to the next question. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez of the G.P. on the planned period for the recovery of the job destroyed in Galicia in the last six years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u43	To put the question you have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u44	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I'm going to talk to you about a country in destruction because of the policies you practice. And in this case, thanks to the policies you practice, because singularly, with official data, even if you don't like it, with EPA data, Galicia is much worse than the state average. I also want to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that if we look at this debate, we don't get caught. I know you're going to tell me about registered unemployment and I'm going to talk to you -- I'm telling you from the beginning -- from EPA. And I'm going to do something that's already said before, and I'm going to swing, Mr. Feijó. I'll balance with the inheritance you've taken, that damned inheritance, and what we have today. And with that damned inheritance, Galicia is the first autonomous community in the whole state that most jobs have destroyed since you arrived, the reason of 183,000 jobs destroyed. Exactly, Galicia is the first community. According to EPA, 15.6 % at the level of job destruction, and the state average is 9.5%, Mr Feijóo, from 2009 to today. I insist: the first of all the Spanish state, which we're going to give to you, too, the graphics we have here, so that you have relevance or at least be aware that you're doing something wrong. You're this one down here, the one below, the most job you've destroyed. Secondly, Mr. Feijóo, since you arrived, Galicia is the autonomous community in which unemployment has grown the most, which, yes, Mr. Feijóo, yes; if so, the state average is 36% and you know what level?No. 71%. And what I want you to explain to me is what you're doing wrong to make this happen in our country. Don't tell me about the data on registered unemployment, tell me about the damned inheritance of the biparty, and explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks why he destroys employment much faster than the Spanish state, because – I insist – something must be doing you very badly, Mr. Feijóo, probably very badly. Thirdly, Mr Feijóo, it is true that in this matter your friend wins Mrs. Cospedal, but Galicia is also the second autonomous community in the Spanish state where the unemployment rate increases the most. It is true that the first, the champion, is Mrs. Cospedal. The state average, 6.5%; Galicia is 9.7%, and Maria Dolores de Cospedal, 10.5%. Please explain to us why the state average is where it is, at 6.5%, and why you almost double that unemployment rate in the Spanish state as a whole. But there is also a very relevant data, of which it never speaks – it seems to be a frivolous, insignificant data – and is that Galicia is exactly the third autonomous community where most of the activity has been reduced, exactly, Mr. Feijóo, 68,000 people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u45	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u46	I suppose that also has no relevance to you, but please explain to me: why when you arrived we had a well-designed reality and today Galicia finds itself as it is? And please don't make me ridiculous about the data on registered unemployment, because for now EPA is the only survey that can't manipulate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, EPA cannot be manipulated – and it is a survey – and registered unemployment can be manipulated – and it is the exact relationship of unemployed people targeted at employment offices. [[Murmurs.]] At least you have an economic policy that doesn't exist in Europe and that doesn't exist in Spain either, because if in Castile-A Mancha what happens is Mrs. Maria Dolores de Cospedal, you have a great advantage: as you are nowhere, you don't exist. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, as is logical, I'm going to give the data: of the EPA, of the registered unemployment, of what is considered appropriate. Look, Your Honor, the economic recession that Europe has experienced, especially in southern Europe, and that we have experienced in Spain over the last seven years – of which the first three have consistently denied; you were in the Government, in some autonomous communities, denying the economic recession – obviously we are not going to solve it in a number of quarters, Your Honor, but I do believe that in Galicia it is worth saying that we are starting a change. In the investment debate of this second legislation I said that we would create net jobs in 2015 and we are creating net jobs in 2015. In the year 14 we started to improve net employment data. It's true that I found a Galician who destroyed 51,000 jobs in the last year of the previous Government, 51,000 jobs, and 50,000 less members of Social Security in the last twelve months of the two-party government. And then I followed in Spain where there was a socialist government denying the economic crisis and not taking any decisions, not in the year 9, not in the year 10, until Mrs Merkel stopped in the year 11. Look, Your Honor, the unemployment data have just come out, actually, 244,761 Welsh and Welsh. What does that mean? That we have the best month of April since there's historical series. But let's go to the year. In the year unemployment in Galicia dropped by 9.4%, 2 points more than the average of Spain. If you want to compare exactly the unemployment we had in recent years, I will tell you: we have less unemployment than in 2013 – 45,000 minus –; we have less unemployment than in 2012 – 32,000 minus –; we have less unemployment, Your Honor, than when we begin the legislation. And I add: we have the same unemployment in April of the year 15 as in April of the year 11: 244,000 in April of the year 11, 244,000 in April of the year 15. And we have 20,000 more members of Social Security. You're not worth the Social Security either, Your Honor, 20,000 more on Social Security? On the EPA, in the EPA that just came out – which is worth you – we followed with 2 points less unemployment than the average of Spain – and see that Spain is doing well! – because 2 points less unemployment than the average of Spain, and we lowered the number of homes with all the unemployed, and we lowered the youth rate of a year ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u49	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u50	Your Honor, but above all, what we would like to know is what your proposal is, what your policies are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not long ago the Berlin wall fell, it was twenty-five years old. Your Honor, the Germans of the East to West Germany have been passing all this time. You were in East Germany, they all fled, they all wanted to go to West Germany.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u52	Look, Your Honor, the Berlin Wall in Spain hasn't existed for a long time. That's why, Your Honor, they win those we practice a democratic policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u53	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u54	...and those of us who practice a democratic economy. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u55	Thank you very much. You have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz. Madam President, the truth is that Mr. Feijóo is changing his argument. To speak with such frivolity of East Germany, of the Berlin Wall, is that you really deserve a suspension, Mr. Feijóo, a genuine suspension, for the frivolity you're talking to. [[Laughter]] But, look, Mr. Feijóo, I'm here democratically, because I voted for the Greeks and the Greeks, just like you, democratically, as much as you bother you, no matter how communist I am, and how much you think this House is yours – I know you think so –. But look, Mr. Feijóo, he's lying. First of all, the data from the first quarter of the EPA do not say that the homes have gone down with all the members unemployed, says the opposite, is that they have risen to 6,100 homes that have all their members unemployed, Mr. Feijóo, about 95,000. You keep lying, Mr. Feijóo, data, data from EPA, Mr. Feijóo, here you are, and it remains one of the communities in the first quarter that is losing jobs, Mr. Feijóo. Don't lie. And, indeed, the EPA, if it was a bit strict, you, who boasts of Europe, should be the survey you have handled, I say it strictly, I do not say it for anything else, for pure rigor, Mr Feijóo. But look, speaking of that net job you're going to create, your Industry Advisor, the Industry 4.0 and so on – I come from Ferrol, I know what I'm talking about, Mr. Feijóo – is promising the creation of 55,000 jobs. At the rate that you propose to create jobs, not in two centuries we are able to achieve it, Mr. Feijóo, because another of your rankings, which also reflects EPA, is that you managed to duplicate exactly the destruction of industrial employment of the state as a whole. Exactly, we've lost in Galicia, since you are, 55,000 industrial jobs, exactly 28%, Mr. Feijóo. Keep lying. But what else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u56	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u57	...I'm worried it's not East Germany, nor Billy Wilder with "One, Two, Three," Mr. Feijóo; what I'm worried about is what you're going to do to change the reality of this country. Will you do something or will you continue to destroy our people, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. You have the floor to reply to the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u59	Your Honor, I am not guilty that you had not taken into account that April's unemployment would drop sharply. You've registered the question, you've come out of your data and you're upset now. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm not guilty of it, Your Honor, and I'm not guilty of the fact that the Germans in the East wanted to go west, neither am I guilty of it, because these regimes, Your Honor, in Europe no longer exist. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u60	Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u61	Look, Your Honor, you're still talking about EPA; let's talk about EPA. The number of homes with all their members unemployed has fallen, in the last year, 6,600.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u62	Mrs. Díaz!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u63	Your Honor, we're talking quarters, we're talking months, we're talking weeks. Look, Your Honor, this is a House sufficiently would be as serious as not to come here to say occurrences, Your Honor. 6,600 has dropped the number of homes completely unemployed, that's what EPA says, I'm sorry you don't like the good news for Galicia, but me, yeah. Look, Your Honor, you're talking about the job. Yes, today the number of Galicians and Galicians who are voluntarily enrolled in the employment offices are the same as they were in April 2011, exactly, for which the Greek society was able to reduce unemployment in the year 15, under the 14th of the 13th of the 12th of the year, and draw with the 11th of the year, Your Honor. That's our job and I think it's worth putting it in value. Your Honor, you tell me about the industry. Look, we have a ten-year contract to build cars in Galicia, 10-year-old, 2 million vehicles. Yesterday, PSA leaders Peugeot Citroën confirmed that Galicia will produce more than 410,000 vehicles this year in 2015, and yesterday PSA President Peugeot Citroën came to Galicia to speak to the Government of Galicia and I can assure you that more projects for Vigo and more projects for Galicia will come out. I'm sorry to tell you, Your Honor, for that is undoubtedly good news for Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we are convinced that we have a gap in the aircraft market in Galicia, and I thank you very much that, thanks to Industry 4.0 and the German entrepreneurs, a Vigo entrepreneur has just announced 26 million euros of investment in his factory to continue expanding jobs and making more components for planes around the world. Your Honor, I very much appreciate the fact that the first sector in Ourense, the agri-food sector, Coren, has agreed with us an investment of 24 million euros to continue producing in Galicia and exporting top quality meat products to the rest of the world. I thank you very much for continuing on the project of the aerodrome of the Rozas to actually make one aeronautical research chicken in Galicia. And I am very grateful that last week a company had come to communicate to the Rural Council and to me an investment of 24 million euros in the Navy is shining to expand the aquaculture industry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u64	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u65	...in the Town Hall of Cervo. As you will see, Your Honor, I am glad of Galicia's successes, you seem to be saddened. In any case, Your Honor, I'd like to know what your proposal is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u67	The five-year plan of communist economies or the Bolivarian mission of Caribbean economies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u68	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u69	Look, Your Honor, there are two Bolivarian missions that I think you know very well. It's called a Che Guevara mission; it's about forming socialist values for a socio-economic system... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u70	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u71	...socialist. Your Honor, is that your model? Or is the model the April 13 mission? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, we are in a democratic country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u72	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u73	...we have a democratic economy, we have a market, we have a social market and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u74	Mr. President, your time is up. [[Applause]] We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 4 of the non-legislative proposals. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the signing by the Government of Galicia of an agreement with the Town Hall of Lugo for the maintenance of the San Fernando barracks of Lugo, and the construction in it of the Museum of Romanization of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u75	Please be quiet, please. To this non-law proposition – Mr. Fajardo, I beg you too – no amendments have been tabled, and you have the floor to speak to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, I thank you for being here, for keeping yourself here to listen to this proposal, and for hoping that you can solve once again the problem of the Galician Romanization Museum, which would be put in Lugo. Well, the history of the city of Lugo with the Council of Galicia is the history of continuous non-compliances, the lack of commitment of President Feijóo and above all the non-fulfilment of promises. They're a lot and I don't have time to tell them all. The failure to comply with the implementation of the 24-hour radiotherapy, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine services at HULA; we continue without this. The implantation of health services in the old general hospital, in the neighbourhood of Residence: a CAP, a laboratory and a health center; they promised until recently, now they say no, it's not done either. The Paradai plan; the board denounced the agreement signed by the Town Hall and the Deputy and stopped doing the third phase; another non-compliance as well. The rehabilitation of the Tinería, the downtown neighborhood of the city, an emblematic neighborhood, which is absolutely paralyzed. The construction of the east round, for the city's communication with the hospital. We could keep it that way in all the councils. And in Mr. Rodríguez's office, the failure to comply with the construction of the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia, rehabilitating for that San Fernando barracks. As Mr. Counsellor knows perfectly well, the barracks is a BIC, he was named BIC, well of cultural interest, in 2009 – Mr. Feijóo's Union, therefore – for being a relevant example of neoclassical construction in the reign of Charles III, begun in 1779, with a spatial structure and organization that still preserves today. Well, in this barracks it has continued to be promised the construction of a Museum of the Romanization of Galicia; I insist, of Galicia, because it is a museum of autonomous rank and not of local rank. In order to be able to do this Romanization Museum, the barracks, which was owned by the Ministry of Defence, was marketed by the Town Hall of Lugo in order to give it up to the board to build a cultural infrastructure – I insist – that benefits not only the lumens but all the Greeks. It was therefore bought with money from all the lumens through the premises of the Town Hall and an agreement was signed where it was clearly stated that the council undertakes to buy the barracks, to give it to the board, the board undertakes to take ownership of that barracks, to make the museum and to carry out its maintenance since – I insist – it was an autonomous infrastructure. The Town Hall kept its word, bought the barracks, handed it over to the board in 2010 and only the last procedure was lacking, which the Board had received this property before the notary. It was never done this last process, but what's worse: not even Junta had the courage to speak to the mayor in 2010 or 2011, who is the representative of all the lumens, tell him about the problems they might have and tell him they weren't going to receive that barracks or do the Romanization Museum. But they didn't say anything, it was necessary to draw up the information with clamps in this Parliament and, after multiple questions, one could at last lie no more and appeal more excuses and it was made clear that the Board was going to completely violate the agreement signed with the Town Hall and not receive the headquarters. An absolute failure which, of course, doubts the seriousness of this meeting because – I insist – did not say anything until we could have the information through this Parliament. Well, in this case, what happens to the barracks is that there are two obvious problems: one, the very survival of a BIC, of a good of cultural interest, which is now in a deplorable condition, that the Board of Culture does not want to take care of him and that the most weak part has to be taken over, the part that has less budget and that, above all, was... less assumption that the Board of Culture will say... because, of course, if we want to clean up San Fernando's barracks and stop cleaning up the streets, lighting up or paying officials, of course! See, the Council has more money than the Town Hall of Lugo, yes or no? Well, but he also has to deal with an absolute breach of the Galician Union, because the Galician Union decides not to do the Romanization Museum and therefore does not agree to take the BIC. Well, in the face of this situation, that you... Mr. Castineira is making many signs there. Mr. Castineira, since you seem to want to participate in the debate, I want to give you a news from the 2010 newspaper where you, the PP spokesperson in the Town Hall, Jaime Castineira, – he is in Spanish – asked the mayor yesterday to speed up the proceedings to transfer San Fernando headquarters to the Union. I mean, you were in 2010 in an impressive hurry to get out of the paper saying that the PP demands that the barracks be released and now they don't want to take it. Is this your coherence, Mr. Castineira? Is that how you defend the rights of lumens? [[Applause]] This is how you logically defend the decisions of the Galician Council but not what comes from the Council because, of course, so much you want to talk about, because we're talking about these decisions. That's right. As soon as the Town Hall got to make the immediate arrangements for the barracks, Mr. Castineira went out to say that if we had culture permission, not to tell him the culture he had helped, no, to see if we had the permits, it wouldn't be. Well, in any case, the BIC is in very bad condition, so there's an agreement by the former Councillor of Culture with the mayor, with the Town Hall, to finance half the most urgent needs of the headquarters, 181,000 euros in total, 90,000 euros each. It seems little to me, actually, I think you had to put on... but it's the deal with the Town Hall, so that's what we asked for. This agreement, which was made in November 2014, is not signed, remains unsigned. The Town Hall has sent, Counselor, all the papers – all of them – and you know it and continue without signing six months later. Of course, they didn't give the money... like...? Yes, Counselor, six months. You have a lie mania that, really... you miss the truth, Counselor... you've met in November 2014, you've been running for six months, haven't you? Or am I wrong? Well, six months. There's nothing, nothing done, nothing done. On the one hand, there is the failure to receive the BIC, the barracks, which is dropping without you doing anything, which has to defend this country's heritage. And on the other hand, the building of the Romanization Museum, which is fundamental from the point of view of preserving the heritage of the Roman period, scattered in warehouses, scattered through many different museums, is also important from the economic point of view. In Parliamentary replies, Junta said it will do so when external funding comes, namely 1.5 % cultural and ERDF funds. We asked on many occasions whether you asked for 1.5% funding for the headquarters; they didn't ask for it, they don't want to give Feder funds, which you could give them, didn't ask for funding for the barracks, so what are we in? You say they're going to get external funding, there's no external funding, but there's a promise that you're still saying, one counselor after another, that they're going to fulfill it. Well, if you're going to do it, what we want – it's very easy to accept this GNP – is that you sign the agreement that was promised to pay half of the headquarters consolidation costs and that in that agreement there is clearly the commitment of the Board to make the Romanization Museum, that is, with an explicit timetable that needs to be fulfilled, because you will understand, Counsellor, that you have to trust with general promises that they will do it, it can no longer be. So we don't ask for anything that's hard to do. Yes, speak to the former advisor, who was a political decision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u77	Finish it, please Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u78	...the former councillor did not do this museum, because the first cultural adviser did take the necessary steps to do so, and Mr. Vázquez decided politically that he did not. They decide politically now that they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u79	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u80	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. Thank you. Well, there are initiatives, many – I would say too many – that arrive in this Chamber because they are based on unfulfilled promises by those who govern us, promises made in the campaign or to campaign, many of them to the knowledge that they will not be met, but it is that cynicism and lack of respect for some politicians before citizenship in general and also their voters in particular have no limits. This initiative that we are currently debating belongs to this category, raises the frustration of the unfulfilled promise and demands the commitment made by political representatives. In this specific case, this is the San Fernando barracks, an interesting neoclassical building that preserves the structures of the time when it was built and which was declared BIC in 2009, the same year in which the People's Party commits to the Museum of the Romanization of Lugo in that building. But there's always a trap: his promise does not foresee deadlines. A contest of ideas, at the corresponding cost, and already existed, according to the information available to me, an investment of €90,000 by the Bipartite Culture Council, given the importance of the construction of this Museum of the Romanization of Lugo, to – it is obvious – cultural promotion, the development of tourism and the improvement of the economy of the city of Lugo and its citizens. Tell me and say, "You're more," "the fault of the bipartite" and the house without sweeping. To this day the building remains valid because, due to a rapid and obvious deterioration, it poses a danger to the travellers that travel there. Even the old knights had to be brought down by the threat to the pawns the state of the roofs. What's going on in Lugo, PP lords? The HULA without radiotherapy and hemodynamic services, this project of the Museum of the Fried Place Romanization, plus all the unmet promises you mentioned earlier. I ask, don't they care about Lugo and the lights? Or do they boycott the management of a council whose mayor, by the way, isn't he from the PP? Of course, of course, and this is true, it's a weak favor that your party candidate is doing to the next municipal elections. Nothing else. Keep your promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u81	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Galego Nationalist Block Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u82	Thank you, President. Good day to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Go forward with the support of the BNG Parliamentary Group for this non-legislative proposal. Indeed, the San Fernando barracks, an example of 18th century military architecture, is an emblematic building located inside the luxurious wall and declared BIC in 2009. For the historical importance of this building, in 2008, it was handed over to the Council of Galicia by the Council of Lugo, after it was bought by it, to carry out its rehabilitation and to convert it into the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia, a museum that should be a priority in the interests of the Government of Galicia for its value, for the placing in value of our archaeological heritage, for the placing in value of the Roman wall at the foot of this museum and for the placement in value of the museum itself, which would become an important value for the study of our historical past and even for the economic activity, for the promotion of tourism in the amurarated city. In 2008, the Galician Union signed an agreement on which it became the owner of this barracks, committed to the rehabilitation of the building and also committed to converting it into the Galician Romanization Museum. Sadly, since 2008, the Government has failed to fulfil all these commitments; the Galician Union 7 years later has not even been able to protect this good of cultural interest. All the Lugueses and all the Lugueses deeply regret a new failure by the Government of the People's Party to comply with the city of Lugo and its neighbours and neighbours. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG understands that this is more a demonstration than the Government of the People's Party on the Union has the abandoned Place, because it is not to be welcomed that a project such as the Museum of Romanization is paralysed. For the BNG it is inconceivable that a BIC-declared building located in the center of the luxury city is found in such a state of abandonment, while the German Government looks elsewhere. Lugo and Galicia need a museum of these characteristics. Lugo and Galicia need this Romanization Museum to host and preserve the large amount of archaeological remains that are currently wasted in different buildings and in circumstances that are not always advisable. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG does not understand Mr Feijóo's failure to comply with the province of Lugo, non-compliance with health issues, access, rehabilitation and, in this case, the Museum of Romanization. The excuse of the economic crisis for us is not valid for a project that has been on the board for seven years. It is not normal for the new cultural adviser – present here today, in the debate – to come to Lugo and not interested in a building that is falling into the center of the city and that should be, today, the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia. The BNG is presenting a number of initiatives, even in budgets, so that the promise of the Greek Government is fulfilled but it is not true, it has not been fulfilled. BNG certainly does not accept the indefinite delay that the People's Party has drawn for the Museum of Romanization. He doesn't accept the BNG that a BIC owned by the Board is in danger of falling apart because of the leftovers of the German Government. BNG does not accept that the agreements between the Union and the Town Hall should become wet paper. The BNG, of course, will support this non-law proposal to end the shame of considering the province of Lugo, the province of defaults, the province of deceptions and the province without rights – no health, no access, no rehabilitation or the museum –. Lugo, of course, deserves to be treated with respect, it deserves to have the deals signed by the German Government carried out. Lugo deserves to be turned into reality the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u83	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u84	...promised by the Greek Government seven years ago. It's supported by BNG and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u85	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the word Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u86	Well, good morning to all and all. The story of San Fernando's barracks would, of course, give to a full extraordinary house. Today it is in a situation of absolute abandonment, of absolute deterioration; a abandonment and a deterioration that even endangers the neighborhood, the travellers, by constant collapses of parts of the structure of the building. So it's something that shames the neighborhood and anyone who has a minimal interest in placing value on it and, of course, defending and rehabilitating our artistic heritage, our architectural heritage. The old San Fernando barracks is located at the foot of the wall door that bears its own name, was built in 1780 and is a valuable example of civil neoclassical architecture in Galicia. It has historical and constructive values that, of course, make it worthy of its BIC statement, well of cultural interest, as it is now. In February 2008 a collaboration agreement was signed between the Town Hall, the COTOP, the Galego Institute of Living and Soil and the Culture and Sport Council for the construction of an auditorium. In that year, in 2008, San Fernando headquarters was to be an impressive audience with a glass dome of important measurements and dimensions, but it suffered an unfavorable report from UNESCO, ICOMOS, and therefore that idea had to be discarded. Lugo had to wait for his audience that is currently being built, is in the process of being finished and in which almost 18 million euros are being invested, with dimensions and an investment and maintenance that is going to be, of course, very important. In September 2009 – we made progress in time – the Local Government Board of the Town Hall of Lugo donated the building, the San Fernando barracks, to the Galician board and immediately announced the construction of a museum, the Museum of Romanization. Shortly thereafter, in July 2011, the Culture Councillor announced an investment of EUR 10 million for the rehabilitation of San Fernando barracks as a centre for interpretation and the Museum of Romanization. Subsequently, in parliamentary appearance, the Director General of Heritage announced the adjudication of the works by the second quarter of 2012. All those promises, as we know today, were in nothing, they were in smoke. Thus, at this point, it is known that the position of the Alternative Galga de Left in this sense is not contrary to the fact that in San Fernando barracks the works are initiated for the construction of the Museum of Romanization. But the fact is that in Lugo there was an important museum, the historic museum, the Interactive Museum of History – known as MIHL – with a cost greater than 10 million euros, a cultural continent today without content, with a number of daily visitors who, of course, are not worthy of the investment – approximately 23 daily visitors – and who, of course, in a context such as the current major crisis, where basic services for citizenship are being questioned, does not seem to us that, after building a museum recently with a value of 10 million euros, let's now do another new museum with the investment that this involves. But, well, he said that we don't want to be a trap for a decision taken by the Government and taken also by the Town Hall, by the groups represented in the Town Hall. From our point of view, the San Fernando barracks could be used for the construction of an educational center, this is a priority for citizenship. There is only one public educational centre throughout the central area of Lugo – inside walls – and therefore it is necessary to build a new educational center. San Fernando's headquarters for its dimensions, its characteristics and its interior courtyards could perfectly be an educational center. The only educational center in the central area of Lugo is a center that does not meet the educational and educational conditions for teaching, it is a small center that only offers thirteen squares per line, which has no dining room, which has no patio with minimum acceptable dimensions, and this would be a priority. We believe that, at this point, it is necessary for both the Government of the Town Hall and the Self-Government to consider this possibility. Having said this, given this vision, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we do not want to be a trap. And if that decision is made, if that commitment is firm, it must go ahead and that commitment must be fulfilled with Lugo's citizenship. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was any doubt that this Socialist Group initiative had a marked electoralist character, Mrs Burgo's intervention fully cleared up the doubts. One of the spokespersons who spoke earlier – I think it was Mrs Iglesias – was what happened in Lugo. Well, man, ladies and gentlemen, I can explain something to you about what's going on in Lugo: in Lugo, what happens is that in certain cases, in certain circumstances, time is very slow, it's slow. You see, let me give you some examples: they have an audience that on the day they put it in motion with that of the march of the end of the world because it's eternal, they put the managements in place when the managements started to build Vilalba's, that of Vilalba's has been running for 17 years and in Lugo they haven't been able to do it yet; they have a building dedicated to the barracks that is maiming in ruins because the owner of it is unable to find solutions to fix it; they also have a school that doesn't get renewed because it takes a lot of time to show up the land to locate it and to be able to build it. In Lugo everything corresponds to the municipal government walking slowly and walking with delay, it would be said that the respectable mayor philosopher instead of copying the vigorous march of Roman legions that at one time lived in Lugo, opts for stoicism and lets time pass and that solves only the problems and, above all, that others solve the problems that he is not able to solve. So what's needed in Lugo, rather than fixing museums, I tell you what's needed in Lugo: you have to change the corporation, you have to change the government, you have to change the mayor and, above all, you have to change the step. [[Applause]] There's also something else that needs to be clarified very carefully and that this proposal has an important part of the Sadducees trap, to see if we stop putting so much blame on others and assume our own responsibilities. The holder of the barracks, the owner, the owner is the Town Hall of Lugo, therefore, it is to whom the management and determination of his destination belongs. He failed in his attempt to locate the auditorium there, failed by the managements that put the other bipartisan government in. And now, if you want to solve the problem, it's him who has to take the initiative, stop blaming everyone else and stop becoming a permanent victim. By entering into the two points that Mrs. Burgo has raised, – and allowing me to jump over the agreements, disagreements, setbacks and memories that constitute a tedious routine procedure in which Lugo's municipal life is permanently installed and which explains why things progress so slowly – let me say that we cannot accept that proposal. The first point is that we could assume it because it is already assumed by the Council of Culture – the Head lady of the Heritage has explained it carefully – but we cannot do it because, look, in her proposal you ask that this agreement be signed before May and logically impossible, but the fault of that is yours, has the Lugo Government. It was necessary to sign this agreement that had sent the project for the realization of the works with the amount of it and that project forwarded it on April 6, i.e. a month ago. But before that, a month earlier, by March 3rd, you had registered your proposal by accusing the Board of default, before you paid your allowance, you were already accusing the Board of non-compliance. And, look, we can't accept it either because that convention is a timely agreement for the realization of consolidation and maintenance works, not an annual agreement permanently maintained in time as you intend in this case. And, above all, we can't accept it because, Mrs. Burgo, you confuse – I think you don't confuse, you want to confuse the more – two things that cannot be confused that are the agreement for the assignment of the barracks for the construction of the Romanization Museum and the agreement to which the first point refers. The assignment of land to the barracks is not agreed at any convention, it is the result of a protocol signed in 2008, where the Town Hall assumed this exception so that the Board had built the Romanization Museum. It is true that this assignment was not accepted by the Union, but, look, it was not accepted by this Union nor was it accepted by the Bipartisan Government. And the assignment was not accepted because it was subordinated to the availability of funds, to the availability of resources for the construction of the Romanization Museum. Given the crisis situation and precisely because of that circumstance – which explained correctly, by the way, Mr Vázquez – of urgency according to the economic situation, at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council of 21 October 2013, the mayor himself acknowledged the non-emergency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u90	...the construction of the Museum of Romanization and itself of the realization of the works of consolidation. From there comes the agreement to which the point refers first, but which does not include for anything the one referring to the Museum of Romanization. As far as the Romanization Museum is concerned, of course, the commitment remains firm but, as Mr Vázquez explained, it will have to be subordinated to the priorities, it will have to be subordinated to the economic situation. You guys recently, in the last plenary session, claimed spending in Lugo but for social care, for health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u92	...and here they insist on the construction of museums, museums and museums; they have some that are running and that should be taken care of. The 13 million of the Romanization Museum, the Union maintains its commitment, but logically, for a logical matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u94	...when economic circumstances make it possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u95	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u96	Well, Mr. Baamonde. Well, first of all, I want to thank the support of all opposition groups for this non-law proposal. They are aware of the importance of Lugo's heritage and of the continued non-compliance with this city, so thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Baamonde, no, his intervention was not electoralist at all; he asked for the vote for Mr. Castineira when you cannot, but, come on, his electoralist intervention was not, no. [[Applause]] It was a defense of the heritage as a spokesman for Culture. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In short, that we continue to breach all agreements with the city of Lugo, here is a summary of their intervention. We continue to apologize. Look, Mr. Baamonde, the Town Hall is not the owner of this barracks, because if you had followed Mr. Castineira's orders and petitions in 2010, it would have been the Union. Mr. Castineira was in a hurry to give over the barracks to Galician Union in 2010. Why? Why were you in such a hurry? Ah, because at that time you were thinking of doing this Museum of the Romanization of Galicia, but since Mr. Castineira really has no weight within the Government, Mr. Castineira has not been paid attention and they have not made the headquarters of the Romanization. Now yes, it doesn't matter, now it doesn't matter to Mr. Castineira whether it's done or not, now it doesn't say it's early and the property is taken to San Fernando headquarters. Well, here is the seriousness of Mr. Feijóo's government, a non-existent seriousness, because one agreement after another is not complied with by the Council of Galicia. I don't know what kind of trust you can have in a government that has absolute institutional disloyalty, that doesn't meet the agreements with other institutions, as neither, logically – and we know – does meet the commitments with citizens. In Lugo there are a lot of unmet commitments, that of San Fernando headquarters is another: a BIC, named BIC by the Galician Union, which is falling. Mr Varela, former cultural adviser, he himself, decided to hold a contest of ideas, adjudicated in 2010, to make an adjudication of works in 2011. Then Mr Vázquez arrived and decided, politically, that it was no longer – with Mr Castineira's approval, that I have never seen him here defend anything from Lugo. And now the new advisor seems to be going on in this weaver.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u98	...this PNL is not required to be done immediately by the Museum, only a commitment and a schedule are required. Like everyone, everyone, they're continually saying that it's going to be done, all the councillors and Mr. Feijóo, we want to know when it's going to be done; because a serious government has a forecast and has a timetable, but here too we know – as most of the Greeks know – that Mr. Feijóo's government has everything, at all, but seriously, nothing at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the recognition by the Government of the professional category of forest firefighter to various designations of personnel of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u100	To formulate it, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u101	Good morning to all of you. Today the representatives of the workers of the Public Service for the Prevention and Defense of Forest Fires should be in the guest gallery. We were not allowed because our guests said they did not respect the rules in the House at the last plenary session – there was a lady who said something about Mr. Feijóo's change of position with Ence, which was quite right. If that doesn't come in, Mr. Dorado, you've been caught up yesterday, you're getting very revolting. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u102	Mr. Sánchez, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u103	Citizens violate the rules of the House when they tell the truth, they violate the rules of the House when they tell the truth, and when we hear lies here they perfectly comply with the rules. So what's wrong is the rules. We believe the struggle is based on some working conditions... yes, every day and that's why they pay you, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Some decent working conditions for workers and workers in whatever their work is; that's why we left East Germany, before the wall fell, so we left – as Mr. Feijóo said we were in East Germany – and went out to evangelize the workers. While we were in East Germany, this group – in analogy with what Mr. Feijóo said – was with the franchisor regime, and they still follow the franchisor regime: a little while ago in Lugo the PP voted against withdrawing the honours of Mr. Franco. And we, while the People's Party does this, while there are mayors who are apologizing Franco and against the victims of Franchises, we have to hear that we say we leave East Germany and that our policies are those of East Germany. It's all right... and then they get offended when they're called fascists, franchiseists, etc. We have to endure those things from the President of the Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, I don't know if you're running around, say it publicly here, yes, speaking of East Germany in an answer to the question about unemployment; yes sir, you have to talk about East Germany when you answer this group for unemployment data in Galicia. As I said, we believe the struggle is fundamental for decent working conditions for workers and workers in whatever their work is. We believe, moreover, in a public fire defense system, homogeneous, homogenized and professionalized, in firm conviction that it is more effective, cheaper and fairer. With these two premises we are now bringing to the Greek Parliament a very concrete initiative that has already been discussed, the initiative of the Socialist Party of Galicia and the BNG, in the committee, because simply the opposition groups have transferred a demand from the workers of this Greek Public Service for Prevention and Defence against Forest Fires, because we consider it fair, timely and necessary. A staff who comes performing, professionally and efficiently, their work, in conditions in many cases of precariousness at all levels; and we're not talking about any activity, we're talking in many cases of playing life by extinguishing fires, under harsh conditions and for many years. The fifth Single Collective Convention for the Workers of the Galician Union collects, in the agreement of special working conditions for the prevention and defence of forest fires of the Galician Union – in paragraph 3.18 – the commitment to change the designation of the category of this service. This commitment reaches pawns, driver pawns, brigade heads, mobile and motorcycle-drive monitors, which will pass – according to the agreement – to the condition of forest firefighters. Even though the Union has suspended different aspects of this collective agreement, this agreement that I have just mentioned remains in force and has been waiting for five years to be fulfilled. According to the annual reports of the Forest Fires Defence Area of the Ministry of the Environment, this group has developed an important work with a credible professionalism and efficiency in the prevention and fight against fires, against the fires that engulf this country. Their tasks have preserved and preserved human lives, the natural environment and even economic goods. State legislation also covers this conversion in Decree 1591/2010 of 26 November, which approves the classification of occupations and collects that of forest firefighter, with autonomous communities extending recognition to that category – Estremadura and Aragon did so. I admit that our understanding is not only fair, it would also be useful for this professional collective to be able to apply the legal rate of retirement age reduction, or the shift to a second activity in the attention of the very harsh, demanding and unhealthy, sometimes, conditions of their daily work. It's about providing a safer, better and better service to the workers, adapting the working conditions to their real work. That is why we, the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga of the Left, urge the Joint Assembly to make effective the forecast gathered in this collective agreement for the employees of the Galician Union, and thus to make effective the commitment to change the names of these categories to forest firefighters. According to the workers themselves, it would be a better training, professionalization of the service not to be underutilized – as they themselves say today –, it would enable pawns, motorcycle drivers, gang heads, to participate in firefighting work in rural nuclei. Having this classification does not mean any change in wages or more levels of contribution, but if you recognize, as you said before, the recognition of certain occupational diseases, the anticipation of retirement for a very hard job, which no longer lends itself in the same way when you reach certain ages, and also assumes that you recognize the professional category of a collective that, while often hired as pawns, are developing functions that are exposed to a maximum risk. These are the reasons: defending the workers' rights to have decent working conditions; something that seems not to be very fashionable in current governments, in times when wages are cut off, if their conditions get worse and any improvement is qualified as a luxury that we cannot afford; we believe that the luxury that we cannot afford is to convert a professional device into a coordinated, privatized device and where businesses enter into doing business, thus defending a public, professionalized, more effective and cheaper model. These are the reasons – as if it were not right enough the simple fact of complying with the collective agreement signed –. Nothing else. I hope, since it is not a discussion about the model of fight against fires, but rather a concrete question, which is spoken and felt at least at some point in this particular question that we have asked for. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u104	For the Joint Group to set the position, Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u105	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It is not the first time in this House to denounce the situation of the work conditions of the staff of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Service, a service that today has been fully fragmented and increasingly privatized and less professionalized devices, with the absence of a single command that goes to the detriment of its effectiveness. Eivas of a system that, day by day, has to suffer the staff of the Fire Extinguishment Service, playing life on their land – our own – which unfortunately has the highest rate of fires in the whole state. But this sector does not require anything to be wrong; this sector requires the application of Royal Decree 1591/2010 of 26 November, so the national classification of occupations is approved, with No. 5,932, forest firefighter, and within the competences of the Autonomous Community in this matter. By the way, I acknowledge that they have already made communities like Aragon or Extremadura, where the People's Party rules. So, what's the government's interest in violating state legislation? Where did this government's commitment to change the definition of the category of the special working conditions agreement for forest fire prevention and defence personnel to pick up the fifth single employment agreement of the Board today? And the question is not trivial, because, although there is a professional fireman category, it has never been applied to the provision of contracts, most of them being pawns of mountains, and pawn specialists, since in the categories used it is not defined the fact of extinction of forest fires, and the profession of risk or the right to occupational disease is not recognized. But the sector has been waiting for the category change for five years, and this government has not shown up. We'll have to think that, once again, the Government's mind and does not comply. It doesn't work because, one more year, fires for this government are not a priority; I'm not a priority when there's no single economic share of their prevention, there's no money, and there's no record for the rodents. I am not a priority when, for the past two years, if you have not given the individual protection team to workers and workers, putting their safety and their life at risk. I'm not a priority until a real forest policy is practised; and of course, I'm not a priority until the sector is defined as a public and single service, and where the category of forest firefighters is recognized to pawns, driver pawns, brigade heads, mobile watchers and motorcycle drivers, who, every year, with the limited means available, put their lives at risk to save our mountains and the life they keep. The efficiency rates of the Greek public service, were the best in the whole state – with an average area per fire of 2.8 hectares per fire – while, for example, the efficiency rate of the extreme forest firefighters was 11.04 hectares per fire. This data was extracted from the Ministry of the Environment's annual reports of the Forest Fire Defense Area. These efficiency rates for the public service in Galicia were achieved when the percentage of the total public service operation was 80%. From 2005 onwards, there has been a significant reduction in fires per year, with an average of 4,223 fires/year until December 2013, but the political decision of governments to reduce the weight of public services with respect to the total device up to 40% has led to a manifest loss of effectiveness, and above all because a treaty agreement cannot be unilaterally annulled. The agreement has the value of law, its non-compliance is a crime against the rights of workers and workers. In fact, no worker or worker can violate the stipulated in the collective agreement by varying his or her schedule or any other condition, because he or she will automatically be dismissed or punished. However, the Administration was unilaterally permitted not to comply with the Convention. The administration must therefore be particularly scrupulous when it complies with the regulations it approves and signs itself, including agreements with its workers and workers. To finish, to express my solidarity with fire fighting personnel, which endangers their lives by having to face the fire without the labor and legal security that the Government of the Union should guarantee. In any case, I also express my support for this non-law proposal. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must begin by greeting the forest fire defenders who are in this Parliament, but who, as there are now collective punishments in this House, have not had the opportunity to follow it directly from the rostrum of this Chamber. I'd like to make a first reflection. I hope that since the last time we discussed this in the 7th Commission, which was – I think I remember – a little less than a month ago, the People's Party has thought and today we are lucky that we will finally vote in favour of this initiative. There are several reasons I think they would advise this reflection on the part of the People's Party. First, because it is, as has already been said here and in various interventions, no less than to comply with a regulatory provision that is the V Single Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union and therefore also a commitment by the Galician Union to collective bargaining. In the convention – which is indeed obliged to comply – it is established in that annex of special conditions for the staff of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Service, that conversion into forest firefighters of the personnel of this device; provision which could not be complied with until 2010, in which the Government of the State approved Royal Decree 1591/2010, so that category of forest firefighters is created. That's the first reason. Second reason. It's fair, because the workers in the forest fire fighting device have been evolving in their work considerations, not only because of their professionalization and their work, but also because of the evolution of the needs of the service. Because the fires, ladies and gentlemen, have also been changing, they have been changing in recent years. Now there are new needs to face, and, for example, this new incendiary feature that occurs in our country, the fires increasingly in category 1, which involve the danger of housing, the danger of rural nuclei, also advises that professionals who face the fight against fires have a certain capacity as to be able to enter into properties, in straws, even in homes, to be able to carry out their work. And for that, it's essential that they have the consideration of firefighters, to have the legal backing to be able to do that kind of performance. Secondly – another reason why we believe that PP should reflect – because it is one more step in the professionalization of the device that we believe is essential; a device that, as I said earlier, not only protects the environment, but also protects the integrity and security of people and their goods and therefore needs greater homogenization and approval of the training they receive, from the form of access to those jobs and of course from the working conditions. And that's why we think it's essential that there is a professional category of firefighter who also armours the forest fire fighting device. I disagree a bit about Mr. Sánchez: yes, this is also a debate about the model, because we believe this would help shield the Defence Service against Forest Fires from this privatizing and dissegregating derivative of the model that the People's Party has, where we now have a model in which we have supramunicipal emergency groups, we have municipal brigades, we have Tragsa brigades, Seaga, Natutechnia, and already know how many other companies in the future, and then we have the very device of the Galician Union. We believe that it sings more homogeneity, the more single command and the more unified device, the better, and, of course, the public. And finally, also for a matter of working conditions and justice. Because it can't be that these workers who have very specific conditions, the same as any other firefighter, as to the danger, the pessimism, the occupational diseases, by the name of their job, don't have the same social security rights as professional diseases and retirements. That is why we believe that this initiative should be adopted. Mr. Balsairo, you said in the commission that it was a problem associated with prevention. First of all, Junta does not prevent, we know it and denounces the workers themselves. And secondly, I have to tell you that in that catalogue that makes the decree, in this same heading, 59...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u109	...of protection and security service workers, there are also the forest and environmental agents. So also because of coherence and because it doesn't mean any wage increase; these workers aren't asking for more pay, what they're asking is that they be given more opportunities to train themselves and to do a better job to serve the job they have to perform and to serve better citizens and citizens and their goods and what they defend, which is the environment, people and their properties. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u111	Thank you, President. Good morning, and also greet the people who are watching us, the forest fire collective. Let's see that we're all talking about forest firefighters here, the advisor when she comes here talks about forest firefighters, anyone, if we go to a survey now in the street and ask who's putting the fire out on the mountain, because she's talking about forest firefighters. So what are we talking about? Why can't forest firemen be called forest firemen? Is that what the People's Party stands for? Let's not explain. What are they? Astronauts? They're not forest firemen. I mean, it's like we're making a motion here now that we're not called Members or a doctor can't be called a doctor. To forest firemen, which we all talk about forest firemen, it turns out that according to the People's Party, you can't be called a forest fireman. Or do we doubt that a person who's going to put the fire out on the mountain isn't a forest fireman? No, he's a pawn. Or is it like a driver of a truck that does a transfer of change that will extinguish the fire and take that truck into the middle of the fire? Can anyone understand that in a country with parameters for a normal government? I understand not, and that's what we're discussing here today. So the data are already explained and I'm not going to sink in them. Why did you delay this? Indeed, when this collective agreement was signed, the first workers were aware that a state regulation would have to be developed to collect that figure, which was made in that decree which was also appointed here in 1591 of 2010, after that regulation was developed in the autonomous communities. And indeed, surely in certain autonomous communities this is a subject because smaller, surely, and elsewhere and in Galicia it should be more important, or other autonomous communities that have already developed that regulation and where that professional category has already been collected, there are other communities that are doing it and in Galicia we have not done it so far. Once that regulation was adopted – I repeat – the logic was to comply with the commitment acquired in the collective agreement. Of course, because this will come out of the People's Party's Voice saying that this does not remove an apex to the recognition of the work that our professionals do for the Protection and Defence Service against the Fires of Galicia. Home!, the basic recognition should be that if you could at least call it what they are, from there we could talk about another type of recognition. But to say that if you recognize someone's work and when we're not even willing, the People's Party is not willing to recognize his name, because from there I think he says enough about recognition or supposed recognition that which the People's Party says. And I also agree with Mrs. Peace, indeed, this is a problem. What's the reason? I repeat: it doesn't involve at least significant expenditure, not even appreciable. What's the reason? What are the reasons? Well, I do indeed believe that this government has decided to dismantle the Fire Protection and Defense Service. And I also understand – and there I give the People's Party the reason – that, of course, to call some forest firefighters who hire three months in summer in some municipal gangs, because of course, it's an offense to anyone's intelligence, it's an offense to anyone's intelligence. Some people can't afford to go out of the fire, they can barely get out of the garita. So, of course, calling that forest fireman is very complicated. And on that side I understand. And also, like I did in the committee, I want to congratulate the People's Party, because the logical strategy of the People's Party was that I had voted that "yes" to this initiative and not to do it. Yes, it was something unusual that two things were said in the commission itself. First, that they were unwilling to do it; and second, that what is put in the collective agreement is practically the same, it's not worth anything. That is to say, for this government and for this part of Galicia, the collective agreement, the agreements reached in a collective agreement, is wet paper. That's what we were told the other day at the committee. And, therefore, I also thank coherence in that sense, because – I repeat – the way to act normal of the People's Party was that he had died in the lethargy of the times; that is, not to say he won't, but he didn't. And therefore, for the first time we have clarity. In any case, reiterate the commitment of the Socialist Party. We, the Socialist Party, understand that there is no reason for forest firefighters, at least logical, and – I repeat – for any government with normal parameters and in a normal country and in a country where we don't tire of saying day after day that forest fires are the country's fault, that they are one of the main problems in this country, that the forest sector is strategic and we have to invest and we have to look after it and it is a sector with enormous potential, and that people in theory we have to take care of and prevent and extinguish these fires that destroy that strategic sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u113	...we can't even call him forest firemen, I think it demonstrates once again that hypocrisy of the People's Party to do everything contrary to what it usually says here. Thank you very much and our support for the professionals in the Fire Protection and Defense Service in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u114	Thank you, Mr. García. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter before, we would like to point out that an initiative, Mr Sánchez, is practically identical to what you bring here today and promotes the AGE Group has already been discussed in the 7th Commission vote in the Galician Parliament on 9 April 2015, that is, less than thirty days ago. And, as is logical, the position of the People's Party in this short period of time has not changed, has not changed. I mean, we kept the same arguments we held in the commission. And, on the other hand, if we have to say that you have for sure that something we agree on, at least those of the benches on this side, is to boast and value the work of the forest fire prevention and defence service workers, who had the opportunity to first-hand know the work these professionals do. And I also have to say – as I have had the opportunity to first-hand to know the work that these professionals do, that they are the same professionals you criticize day after day in this Parliament's gallery, they are exactly the same – who deserve this side of Parliament, these benches and this group – who is the majority group of this House – all our recognition and deserve all our gratitude. You continue to criticize us, we deserve all our recognition and deserve all our gratitude, but not today, since the legislation began and in the past legislates. And every day, you come in, you come in, you come in, you come in, you come in, you come in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in. [[Murmurs.]] Welcome home, welcome home. [[Applause]] You criticize them every day, today you don't seem to. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We now recognize these professionals and recognition in the future for a number of reasons: because they are a basic part in protecting not only the environment, but our forest wealth, the green Galicia, but also the neighbours of the areas affected by fires, their possessions, their heritage and even their dwellings. Our gratitude and gratitude to those professionals; you criticize them. Tomorrow they're already criticizing them, not today; they criticized them yesterday, they criticized them all these days and tomorrow they'll still criticize them because you criticize them. And I say they're great professionals and the majority group of the opposition, the People's Group, still think they're great professionals; you criticize them in Parliament and outside Parliament. We must also say that these great professionals, always at the service of society, do not spare their efforts. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group is convinced that the intense and extraordinary work of the extinction teams has allowed in recent times important advances that you also criticize every day and that you do not recognize, gentlemen. You don't recognize those advances either. And I'm saying today the current area affected by fires – you said yesterday that not yet in the Galician Parliament – is much lower than that recorded in the last few decades, are the best results of the last twenty-five years, with a third less affected hectares. We, our gratitude to those workers; you, the criticism to this day. Welcome, welcome at last, that you recognize the work, it wasn't timeless! It wasn't time for you to recognize the work of these workers. And that's why we're willing to listen, because we were there yesterday, we were there last week, we were there last month, and we were there last year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You guys don't seem like a month ago here is when you're willing to listen to these workers. We say, they're great professionals, we recognize that great work they do, we recognize the work they deserve, they have our gratitude. You are welcome, because you are tired of the committee and tired of being in Parliament's gallery of criticizing the work of these professionals, of criticizing these professionals, of criticizing the fire extinguishing device. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And I say more: in a few days we will witness the Members of this Parliament that they will continue with that policy that they have so far taken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u117	Our gratitude and our appreciation for these professionals. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u118	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez. [[Pause.]] Give Mr. Sánchez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u119	Well, I'm sorry to have to repeat myself again, but I'm going to say that, since we're talking about professionals, Mr. Balsairo shows that he's a professional of lies once again. When he speaks of the opposition parties criticizing the professionals, where does Mr. Balsairo get it?, where does he find us criticizing the professionals?, where does that come from? That's a lie, a lie that has repeated several times, and those who lie often are liars, of course they are. And to put Mr. Balsairo's videos to Greek society would be to denigrate the exercise of politics, with these interventions that never talk about the matter, and all he does is to throw in trouble on the others. Look, what you just did here is a joke to the workers who are in Parliament, I invite you to come talk to them. When they boast that they are very professional, that they do their work very well, but instead they don't give them their clothes to work, they don't give them the means, and they refuse their commitments. That's a joke: speaking well of them and not fulfilling commitments, giving them neither the material nor the conditions necessary to work with dignity. That's a joke to the workers. And if you want to come and talk to them, and talk to them face to face, see who criticizes who. Of course, their model is to deny them conditions, to deny them dignity, to deny these people a decent job, to have people working for three months, to have the stables discontinuous to claim justice, and while giving them business to former high-ranking companies in Galicia: Natutechnia and Inaer, and to hire them at 12 million euros. And in that I'm not lying: ex senior positions of the Galician board that create ex-professional companies to do business with smoke and then they change laws, they change regulations to give them contracts. And what I'm saying is no lie to the difference between what you say, that's true and if you don't ask me. You have mocked the workers here, Mr. Balsairo, because the good words to them are no use. Come talk to them, meet them, give them conditions, give them material, professional service. One service that when it was public in greater degrees was more efficient, cheaper, better for the Greeks, and the only difference is that it wasn't given business to certain companies. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Proposal by G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions of the employees of the contracts and subcontracts of installations of the company Movistar Telefónica
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u120	This motion for a non-legislation tabled an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u121	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u122	Good morning again. We are now taking an initiative that, without any doubt, would serve as a story or part of the story of the unfortunate life of workers and workers, but also of the success of labour gains when workers and workers unite and when workers and workers, without doubt, persist in mobilization. So today, we can say that thanks to the struggle of the workers and workers of the subcontracts of Telephonica, we were able not to win but rather to take a little step forward. And they and they, with their persistence, with their greatness, demonstrate to those whom we represent the majority of society, who we – we insist – are workers and workers, that if it is possible to win the battle and that it is true that the workers and the workers have a future from here forward even though the People's Party is committed to saying that there is no alternative. Of course, there was an alternative, and there was an alternative, and the workers demonstrated their struggle in Coca-Cola, there was an alternative, and they demonstrated the different struggles of the tides in our country, and there was an alternative, and so demonstrated by the workers and the garbage workers. When we join together and when we persist in strike we always win. And that's why today we want to bless, without a doubt, those workers and workers who have been on undefined strike since March and who are today in a new stage; they haven't won the battle, but we're certainly going to get back with the support that we hope it will be unanimous in this House that their working conditions will improve. But I do mean that we are also in the history of a misfortune, in a history of the model of amicable capitalism, in which, without doubt, we have and suffer the consequences from below and below. That company that was public, Telefónica; that company that as a result of this friendly capitalism today is being a real calvary for the workers and workers of our country and of the state as a whole. A company that is being cursed by its model of labor relations, even for those who are part of the template called the main; a bad model of what must be done in the 21st century in labor relations. A telephonic model in which the friends and friends of the People's Party are sitting on the board; those who were ministers, first, privatize and then, by chance, arrive at the Boards of Directors of Telephonic. But I'm here to tell you about a powerful conflict that, although there was a deal yesterday, persists in our country; a conflict that, as you know, has just caused because of the miserable conditions of subcontracting, which are absolutely unfair and are outraged in the 21st century. I suppose you know what we're talking about, we're talking about that block of ten companies subcontracted by Telephonica, which are engaged through techniques and techniques in installing telecommunications networks, whether it's ADSL, whether it's fiber optics or other elements that we're using every day for all of us. Workers and workers – if you don't know – for example, the company Liteyca in Galicia, where 1,000 workers and non-employees are affected, are now known as "false self-employed." And that any worker or worker who tries to attend the Social Courts, I'm sure he'll win his demands. False autonomy was what Telephonica-Movistar achieved with regard to these workers and workers. And why fake self-sufficient? Well, as you know, they are workers and workers who have to get up on social security; that as I had the opportunity to talk to several of them and of them, indeed, to earn a salary of 1,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because they have to work every day of the week – Monday to Sunday – and an average of 12 hours a day. Some and some of them told me that they're actually receiving an average of 800 euros – I insist, working practically every day a week – and that they were earning less than twenty years ago. And that, yes, paying insurance, social contributions, putting your vehicle on the move to make the aforementioned facilities; and, yes, of course, also running with all the petrol costs and so on. This is the working model of the People's Party, which we fight for, and that's why today we bring the debate here to this House and - we insist - we expect it to be referendumed by most of the People's Party Group as well. But we could think that the conflict is fixed, because, no, the conflict is not arranged, today we also have in our country the workers and workers of Attention, in Telephonic, that we have recently mobilized with them, that, as you know, what that company is doing is absolutely extraordinary. And it is that, in fact, the workers and workers won the judgments on that ERE that they intended and automatically did what this exemplary company did – since the People's Party claims every day in front of the media – because it quickly went to relocate, i.e., to get out of this city, out of the Coruña, because nothing more and nothing less than 19 workers and workers. I mean, even though the workers and the workers earn the sentences and the courts are giving them reason, because the big corporations, which actually govern this country and this state, indeed, what they did was to relocate and therefore also leave these workers and workers affected in the Crown unemployed. We are aware that they will also win the battle, without any doubt, because when we are persistent and when we join together we always win and win. And it's true that yesterday we signed a preliminary of a work agreement that we're going to respect, but what is true that we're going to be vigilant, as, by the way, demands one of the clauses of this agreement. This first agreement says that it will be retroactive in character on May 1 with respect to the conditions under which it is made. Secondly, it regulates what has to do with the subcontracting sector in the telecommunications sector of our country and our state, and it commits itself to maintaining the volume of employment they have achieved. They set the limits of the subcontracting. It's embarrassing what they're doing, not even the 19th century times can remember images like the ones workers and workers describe about their working conditions. They've made the workday as inevitable in such only 40 hours a week, not 12 hours a day at the point of every day of the week, but 40 hours a week. Indeed, it is understood that the work done at the weekend will be conceived as extraordinary time, and they can only develop on time and in an absolutely justifiable way. And, of course, a committee is set up to follow these working conditions, which will have to make a balance sheet and a meeting on a quarterly basis. Of course, we understand that the conditions of workers and workers who have been on strike indefinitely since March this year deserve the unanimous support of this House. What we are asking for in our initiative is fair: we are asking that the working conditions that are in force today in our state and in our country be respected; we are asking that the agreements of the sector be respected, as asked by the workers and workers; we are asking that subcontractions be reduced, which are cause of precariousness and often of illness in the workers and workers of this country, even of deaths, that we must also talk about deaths, which are increasing in Galicia because of the bad conditions. Of course, eliminating the figure of false autonomouss, this which they are living in their backs. And, as we said, exactly what they did yesterday, is to regulate nothing more and nothing less than this sector. Ours is not the model of Telefónica's exploitation, of the Friends of the People's Party, by collecting dividends nothing more and nothing less than on the Board of Directors of Telefónica. In good time to workers and workers, and we hope that those of you on this side will press the button of itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u124	Thank you, President. I want to begin by expressing support for this non-law proposal that presents Alternative Left Galeg, and I will take advantage of the intervention to explain the meaning of my amendment. The system that uses these contracts to pay off wages is one of the so-called "barremo points", which affects individual workers and individual target workers who are impossible to meet during the 8 hours of the day. With the passing of years, the minimum points increase, preventing them from releasing the two consecutive days of the collective agreement. Travel throughout the province, with 11 and 12 hours a day, including Saturdays. And all of this without charging the legal salary of the agreement. Plus, they have to pay for gas oil and food. System perversion is complemented by point compensation between the next few months. When a month does not reach the minimum production, they are discounted by this amount in the following months, often ending up in layoffs. In March, Liteyca, in the Coruña, fired two more workers as a result of the abusive production system demanded by the staff, authorizing voluntary download of productivity. In the conciliation act at the SMAC on April 20th, the company... I understand that the People's Party cares little about what's happening to the Telephonic workers or any German worker, but with regard to the workers, please don't pay attention but keep quiet. [[Murmurs.]] In the conciliation act at the SMAC on 20 April, the company recognized the importance of redundancies, so it is implicitly recognizing the irregularities in the production system imposed by Telephonic and the arbitrary penalties imposed by contracts and subcontracts on staff. Stimulating dismissals, as they have always done the tasks assigned to them, although to achieve the minimums of productivity that they require if they are forced to work permanently above their working days and without charging the legally established salary. Another of the fundamental issues for them is to get formulas to restrict chain subcontracting, because the atomization of the sector in a multitude of small small enterprises of small dimensions and the massive use of false autonomy is one of the factors that is at the source of the precariousness they suffer. The staff of the companies that form the second degree of subcontracting must pay the costs of transport out of their own pocket. The objective of the workers is to achieve the limitation to the first degree of subcontracting descending, either through the collective agreement of the main company itself or through specific agreements with the main contracts or provincial agreements. Let these situations of up to three levels of subcontracting demonstrate the little concern this government has for guaranteeing these basic services for the community, and it also basically demonstrates the failure of the Government of Greece to compromise the quality of employment and the defence of the rights of the working class. Of the 80,000 workers who have come to use Telephonic throughout the state, currently only have around 20,000, who don't usually take care of street work. The rest of the Telefónica staff was replacing him with contracts, subcontracts and false autonomouss. Phone outsources to reduce costs to exploit workers and workers. Of the more than a thousand workers and workers who can be affected in Galicia, about 30% are self-employed. It is also essential, for the same reason, to guarantee the subrogation of employees and employees in the event of a change of contract. It is an important element to avoid fraudulent replacement of one contract by another and to provide stability for this collective of workers. The volume of unsolved damage and customer claims have already reached such a level that Telefónica hired squirrels during this strike, and the IGC had to report staff's replacement during the strike. Telephonic had benefits close to EUR 4 billion last year, but it exploits it indecently and with the support of the Greek administration to whom it does its work, leading it to this intolerable situation. I therefore reiterate my support for this non-law proposal and hope that Alternative Galega will accept this amendment, which tries to close a little further the claims of workers and telephonic workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u126	Good morning. The workers and employees of Telefónica Movistar's contracts and subcontracts in Galicia have been on strike indefinitely since April 14th, they're on strike demanding working conditions and decent wages. Twenty-five days later they're still on strike and they keep all their demands. They keep all their claims because at this point none of the companies operating in Galicia agreed to negotiate any of the issues they claimed. Staff are on strike because of the poor working conditions imposed by the main company on all contracts providing services on the subscribers' network. A chain subcontraction, the use of false autonomouss, a pay-for-production system, the transfer and economic penalties of the client to staff... is almost endless the list of totally irregular situations and which only deepens in the deterioration of the staff's work situation. In the face of this dramatic situation, there is a total lack of mediation and indifference to the conflict on the part of the German Government. Just a week ago, the Galego Nationalist Block asked the Labour Counsellor in this House what actions the Government had taken in the face of the tremendous work situation that workers and subcontract workers are subjected to. And the Labour Counsellor, Mrs. Mato, for all answers, what she did was to throw balloons out and try to send the negotiating field back to Madrid and say she can't summon the parties to mediate because they have to ask for both parties in conflict. We seem to follow the People's Party and the Counsellor's line. He knows perfectly well that he is the labour authority in Galicia, that he is competent to act in this matter and that he must control labour health issues, work at the height, the presence of preventive resources, and even that he demands all works that are done with public funding that cannot be subrogated and banned from subcontracting in prison. The German Government, the Council, has legal instruments, because it is the labour authority in Galicia and has political instruments to be able to act. That's why the BNG tabled an amendment to this initiative of the Alternative Glaga de Left, in the same direction as we asked the advisor a week ago, to call the parties in conflict: strike committee in Galicia and more representatives of the companies to which the strike call has been moved, so that they can reach an agreement on the following issues. Because in Galicia there is a call for a strike, a call for a strike in the area of Galicia, and the Greek Government has a political, moral and legal obligation to convene the parties, to convene the bodies of unitary representation of workers and workers in Galicia and the companies to try to reach an agreement. An agreement which goes in the direction of the works committees and which requires the strike committee, which is strict compliance with the provincial metal conventions, especially those relating to remuneration, working hours and rest; which is directed at limiting subcontracting to the first degree of service benefits; and which is directed at subrogation of the staff serving in the telephonic contractors when they perform new contracts with other companies. All these claims continue to be maintained, because an agreement that respects the conventions is totally contradictory, which keeps the pay system based on production, based on the point-by-point bar; it is not an acceptable agreement. An agreement establishing that timetables will prevail over what is set out in the provincial conventions is not an agreement which the strike committee in Galicia or the works councils agree to. It is an agreement that makes an express reference to completing the regulation of the sector through the framework agreement of the metal sector. It is a state-of-the-art agreement that is under the provincial agreements, which is what the works committees demand, which demands workers and workers in Galicia, which demands the strike committee. An agreement that continues to recognize in a covert way the penalties, the economic penalties disguised...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u128	...and reduced proportionally to work, i.e. damage or installations. We therefore believe that the People's Party should once and for all stand on the side of the Greek workers and sue of the Government, the Council, which measures this conflict, which calls the two parties: the strike committee and the companies in Galicia, so that they try to reach an agreement that ends with these slave conditions and that ends with a situation where the Greek Government is giving them millionaire aid. And with those millionaire aids, you can't help to have working conditions that are qualified by the workers of all the slaves themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the People's Party is glad of yesterday's agreement, which involves the convoking of strike, but we regret the use of labour conflicts for partisan purposes. Our group always supports the initiatives of any group of this Parliament that seeks to defend the rights of workers in our community. On the other hand, the Galician Board, through the Council of Labour and Welfare – as it could not be otherwise – is carrying out its obligations, always watching for the fulfilment of labour rights, protecting workers and employers who act according to legality and act against those who commit the crime. Through our own workers we were aware of the allegations of alleged irregularities and breaches of labour law and, consequently, of the call for strike in all subcontractors providing services for the installation and repair of telephone networks. We were also aware – because it was said in this House – that the Council would no longer receive the union communication on possible breaches and infringements of labour by these telecommunications companies the first thing it did was to transfer to the Labour Inspectorate, ladies and gentlemen. And this isn't throwing balloons out, Mrs. Prado. The main mechanism that the Council has to monitor the fulfilment of the working conditions of workers is the performance of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. The Inspection is the body responsible for monitoring and monitoring compliance with labour standards. In view of this, the first thing the Galician Union did was comply with its obligation. And on the same day that the strike call was made to him, he immediately took the matter to the Inspectorate. It must be borne in mind that there was no prior complaint. I would like to remind your honourable Members that this complaint could have been made earlier by those affected by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which is the one who has the competence to carry out an inspection and raise an act of infringement to the company. I also remind you that there is no mediation in the face of possible breaches of labour law and workers' rights. So when there's a possible infringement, we need to go to the Inspectorate before mediation. First, it is necessary to clear the responsibilities and investigate through the Inspection the possible irregularities. Once you have the result of the Inspection, you can start the pathway of mediation, of course, whenever the parties want it. Mediation for which he showed – as he could not be otherwise – the Counsellor's complete disposition. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there were issues that escaped from the competences of the Galician Union, such as subrogation and the level of recruitment. Both were subjects that should be dealt with at the state level, and we also knew that, and on that line we were all aware that this issue was being negotiated with majority unions. Yesterday an agreement was signed, an agreement was reached between the unions, the UXT and the Workers' Commissions reached an agreement with the subcontracts that work for Telefónica, which is the convoking of the strike. The agreement regulates certain aspects, such as the one on the working day with the exclusion of weekends, the pay with an increase of 10% or the creation of a safety and safety commission and the prevention of work risks; among other things, which you have already reported, Mrs Díaz. In view of all this, the People's Party proposed replacing its text in the resolution, so I will read below: "The Galician Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to address the Central Government to request that it mediate in the dialogue table already open between employers and trade unions to improve the working conditions of the workers and employees of the telecommunications sector's contracts and subcontracts." That's our proposal. But given the almost unanimous concern of the workers shown by the rest of the groups who also amended this proposal, and knowing that this initial text was better, we would be willing to compromise with the aim of adopting a text with the unanimous support of the Galician Parliament to improve the conditions of the workers and workers of the contracts and subcontracts in this sector. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u131	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, hearing the spokesperson for the People's Party seems to be the fault of the workers, for not doing what they had to do, and it seems that the resolution is thanks to the Counsellor, forgetting what the Counsellor said at the last plenary. The reality is that, beyond we rejoice at this pre-agreement firm, there is a reality above the table and the sub-contracts continue, and the sub-contract workers who make Telephonics suffer a progressive deterioration of their working conditions, not in this last element that was attempted to reaffirm itself to further harm it, but rather in the prejudice of their working conditions. These workers, in spite of everything and in spite of this signature, are not alien to the state's work framework, the labour framework of the Spanish State; this labour framework of the reforms of the People's Party which in any way, in any case, undermines employment and subject workers. These successive reforms not only bring this precarious work but also a wage depreciation and prejudice to all workers. The conflict we are dealing with is not a conflict that is limited only to Galicia, but it is a conflict of the state, but of course it is a conflict that is here, which is in Galicia. Therefore, the German Government and the Labour Counsellor have an obligation to mediate in that conflict or, at least, to know of that conflict. The Labour and Well-being advisor in the last plenary said the German Government was not competent in the field of work. You may be right because really in the matter of work the German Government is absolutely incompetent. But if the Labour Adviser is competent to mediate a labour conflict and by the legal means appropriate to mediate between the parties. He didn't and he didn't. The workers of these subcontracts from Telefónica claim improvement in their working conditions, working conditions already in danger of being precarious and precarious, but that in addition to that proposal for signing looples agreements, they would prejudice them even more. The German Government, the Spanish Government, somehow puts that position on the table in value of the figure of the autonomous as if it were an opportunity. What if it's to make it more precarious is to put a name for a slave of the world of work and of the world of wages. The origin of this conflict is this so-called "customer loop contract"; this agreement which is renewed every three years and which binds the operator to its cooperating companies. It's true that this conflict is against these subcontracted companies, but it's true that Telephonic itself opens up these companies to open up the workers. What's true is that this original privatization of Telephonic is the one that progressively workers no longer have work hours, and we're going to get to a time when we're going to have to pay for work instead of getting a salary. As I said at the outset, beyond the precaution, precariousness is wild, a precarious employment of all workers, specifically those who occupy the company Movistar; the reduction again of pay standards to workers, who suffer considerably intolerable working conditions and wages. And that's why the Socialist Group will support this initiative to improve the working conditions of the workers of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u134	Thank you, President. First of all, with regard to the amendments that have been proposed, we would admit to the partners of the Joint Group and the BNG Group if this is the case, if I do not accept what I am going to propose now, as an addendum to these proposals, especially because the wording we bring – and I will read – brings about the demands of the workers themselves. For, first of all, what we are urging is the elimination of the loop agreements; secondly, the drastic reduction in subcontractions; thirdly, the elimination of the mandatory figure of false autonomy; fourthly, the application of the provincial metal conventions; and fifthly, the establishment of a sectoral negotiating table to regulate this sector. If they do so well, the proposals they make, in particular, would be added to this proposal. And with regard to Mr Trenor's proposal, this group agrees that we have reached a transaction between all groups if we are able to find a correct formula. But if I want to point out some questions, and we insist - the conditions of the workers and workers, who continue to strike many and many of them - and I have expressly mentioned the case of Atento in the city of Coruña, where there are dismissals and we are experiencing a phenomenon of brutal relocation and which cannot be allowed to that company as is Telephonic - they still stand. But one question that must be said: seeking or obliging the figure of false autonomy is not that the labor relations – that, of course, yes – are precarious, but that is to violate the prevailing legislation. And I insist on the main question: this is the model, the telephonic model, which is imposing, Madam President, the People's Party in our country. A model that is predator, which authentically converts workers and workers into slaves. Because you will also have to bring the debate to this House, for example, on what conditions are people working, for example, in 1004, because it would give to a doctoral thesis. So, if you think so, we would try to reach a proposal for agreement between all groups and if we do not maintain the initiative as it is. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. So let's give you a few moments so you can make a deal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u136	Okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u137	So we started the vote, Mrs. Díaz. We then begin with the vote on the first of the non-legislative proposals of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo. Excuse me, are we negotiating or voting? [[Pause.]] Already? Do you need a few seconds to...? Yeah, just a few moments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u138	Can we start the vote? Good. So we started the vote with the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, to which no amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the actions of the Galician Union aimed at ensuring the sanitation and integral purification of the Galician rivers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u139	We voted for the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Santalices, which I believe does not accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P.Popular de Galicia, by initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and twelve other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the study of the possibility of access to the spas and Spanish hydrotherapy centres of those citizens of the countries of the European Union who have included hydrothermal therapies in their portfolio of services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 15. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u140	We then vote on the proposal from the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Martínez, which I believe has some transaction. Give Mrs. Martínez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u141	Yes, well, the final text would be the first point in the proposal I tabled in the PNL itself; as a second point a transaction of the amendment of the People's Party, in which the first sentence "In any case..." would be removed; as a third point the amendment of the PSOE; and as a fourth point the amendment of the BNG. The People's Party calls for a point vote, voting points 1, 2 and 3 together, and 4 separately. Speaking to BNG, you agree to make this vote, since I accepted the amendment. We would therefore vote on points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u142	Well, then, if you like, let her reach the services of the House. But I understand that with points 1, 2 and 3, as you said, we make the first vote, and as a second vote the amendment of the BNG. Vote of points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed non-law G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer of skills in prison health to Galicia for his assumption by Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. Consequently, points 1, 2 and 3 of this non-law proposal were adopted unanimously, with 73 votes in favour. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer of skills in prison health to Galicia for his assumption by Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u143	We then vote on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Dorado, which I do not believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Javier Dorado Soto, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece to improve the curricular skills of young people through informal education programmes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31; abstentions, 1. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u144	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez Bugallo, in which I believe there is a transaction, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u145	In fact, we accepted the amendment of addition made by the Nationalist Block Galego, adding it in paragraph 1, which would be as follows: "Let Article 35 of Royal Decree 20/2012 be repealed and the paragraph"–this would be the add-on–"a) of the second additional provision of Law 4/2013, of June 4. And in turn, in the second paragraph there would be: "In relation to the persons who have been applied retroactively to Article 35" - and would be added - "and the paragraph a) before mentioned."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u146	Well, thank you very much, Mr Bugallo. We are voting on the initiative presented with this deal on the amendment of the BNG. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the aid for the grant of loans to the holders of public protection housing housing in the national housing plans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u147	We voted on the proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs López, to which no amendments have been tabled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yes. Well, there are two points, so we are voting on the first of the points of the initiative. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the signing by the Government of Galicia of an agreement with the Town Hall of Lugo for the maintenance of the San Fernando barracks of Lugo, and the construction in it of the Museum of Romanization of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u148	We are voting on the second point of the socialist initiative. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the signing by the Government of Galicia of an agreement with the Town Hall of Lugo for the maintenance of the San Fernando barracks of Lugo, and the construction in it of the Museum of Romanization of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 25 votes against, 41; abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u149	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the recognition by the Government of the professional category of forest firefighter to various personnel designations of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u150	Finally, we are voting on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz Pérez, that you can tell me whether there is any agreement or any transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u151	Madam President, we admit how you add the amendment to the Block, and there is no possibility of a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u152	Well, then we voted on the alternative's proposal with the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. Yes, ma'am... only accept the amendment of the block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is the initiative of the Alternative Left Galeg with the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, I heard Mrs. Díaz just told me that BNG's amendment. So they accept the addition of the Joint Group and the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions of the employees of the contracts and subcontracts of installations of the company Movistar Telefónica. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u153	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5 of interpellations. Interpellation from G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the evaluation of the results of the followed employment policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u154	You have the floor to appeal to Mrs. Quintas Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u155	Good morning again. Good morning, Counselor. Counsellor, from the Socialist Group, we understand that your government and you have shown an important lack of management since the Galician Union to what is the main problem of most of the Greeks and Greeks, especially the young people, who are unemployment. There's an important relationship between gross domestic product and unemployment; it's a fundamental data for job creation. And the evolution of GDP in 2014 to Galicia, the variation, was that it had the worst data in the entire Spanish state, 0.5% compared to the state average, which is 1.4%. It is a fact that with regard to GDP it is important and that it is certainly not good for our community. In 2014 Galicia was the community that behaved more poorly with regard to economic developments. The change in GDP was below three quarters of the increase in the state. Half of the forecasts, on the other hand, of the German Government itself and its council. By 2015, the state announces an increase in GDP by 2.9%, we will see it. And Galicia, according to the budget document, already stands at 2%. 0.9 points below. If it's true what's happening in recent years, that your forecasts are never correct, it won't be good news for the workers and the workers of Greece. This is the situation that reflects the work data in Greece. The latest data from the EPA in the first quarter of 2015 indicate that unemployment rises in Galicia to a total of 275,700 people, representing a quarterly increase of about 12,000 people, which is a very important rise. I say I mean the EPA data, not seasonal variations, which have to do with many variants, I mean official data. The official reality is that 12,000 more people in Galicia are again unemployed, although both the President of the Spanish State and the President of Galicia say that we are improving. An increase, therefore, of more than 4.50 % compared to a decrease of 0.24 in the rest of the state. I mean, if we have a problem with unemployment in the Spanish state, we have more in Galicia than for the rest of the state. That government, your government, Counselor, the Government of the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo, has been over six years old; at this time Galicia had an increase of 113,000 unemployed. You who so much like to refer to inheritances, Counselor, you inherit yourself, and the inheritance you have of yourself is worse than the one you already had. But that's not the most serious thing, the most serious thing is that it affects young people and girls, who have to get out of here, and it affects the workers and workers in Greece, who don't see the future. Unemployment suffered a 70% increase in Galicia. I wonder how the president of Galicia, without being rude, can talk about economic recovery. But if this situation isn't even taken over by the rulers of Galicia, it's very hard for us to solve it. This is very easy. When a person doesn't assume that he has a problem, when a government doesn't assume with all the data and actually that he has a problem, he's hardly going to put the solutions, all he does is advertising and propaganda. And, well, now that we're in pre-election times, because advertising and propaganda is already obscene. But the reality is that boys and girls have to run away and reality is that women and men in Greece have no work, and many of them are in social exclusion, and many of them, already in long-term unemployment, have no right to perceive anything. Today they are busy in Galicia 181,000 people less than when President Feijóo and you, Counselor, took possession. So it's six years complicated and it's six years of neglect for workers and workers. Last week the Economic and Industrial Councillor, who called on the Socialist Group, was unable to answer how 60,000 jobs would be recovered in the industrial sector. In Galicia, the number of people retired and unemployed is already above the working population. According to IGE data, over the next five years, 63,000 more retirements will occur, because we are an aging population. Today morning the president was talking about a demographic plan. Really, Counselor, sometimes you don't want to use bad words, but it's embarrassing to come here talking about a demographic plan. Because a demographic plan carries with it many aspects that the Galician Union is cutting: aspects of population fixation, ability to work, modernize, take advantage of the mountain, have doctors, have records... you took everything out. How will the population be fixed? If even emigrants who come to this country, who leave their countries to improve their economic conditions, they're already leaving here. Not even the jobs "the ones that better the Greeks and the Greeks don't go," they're not even attractive to a people who come to work. We're old, we're deserting, we're incapable of producing. You don't attack a productive structure that this country has in the future. No, you come here, you read papers, you say there's more and more jobs, you forbid people from outside to protest here with Alice in the country of wonders. But no, that's not reality. The country of wonders will be when people have to eat, to pay for their children's career, to pay for higher and higher light receipts, to pay for higher and higher phone receipts, even though workers are enslaved. A story, Counselor. And they need accounts, they don't count. For every under 20-year-old, for every under 20-year-old, there are seven retirees. So it's a terrible reality. With regard to youth, the social drama of young and young Greeks is beginning to be, it's going to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u156	It's over, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u157	...it's complicated. The youth unemployment rate between 16 and 29 years increased by 60%. But what's more serious: already our boys who go out, qualified boys, can no longer work on those jobs for which money has been spent in Galicia to form them. But what's worse: within this desertification, the brains go out, we're not able to reinvest what we spend. We spend money on training and then these trained people go outside, they don't stay here to generate jobs, to be productive, not. You're turning this country into something absolutely desert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u159	And, for now, nothing more, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u160	The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato Otero, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u161	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that today, which I see as the forum is almost full, we have the opportunity to show to the Greeks and to the Greeks the different realities that I see in this Parliament, we have the situation in which Galicia is living. I probably say that you have a reality and a vision of the very catastrophic reality, and I am convinced that you will say of me that the vision of the reality I have is absolutely idyllic; in fact, in your intervention you spoke of what Alice's country painted in the country of wonders. Obviously, I invite you to speak seriously, because I'm convinced that you don't even think I have that idyllic view of our community, and I'm convinced that you don't see it so catastrophic either. And I'm saying that because, look where he looks, he picks it up from where he picks it up, even not only listening to these Members who are in the gallery today, but any of the boobs on television from any private or public channel, all the Tertullians when they talk about the economic situation of our country, and even from Galicia, what nobody talks about is that the economic and labor situation of our community is better today than a year ago, Mrs. Quintas, it's better today than two years ago, better than three years ago, and even four years ago. And I'm actually staying here four years ago. You said I liked to talk about inheritances. And he said, you inherited yourself. Yes, I inherited myself two years ago, and two years ago, actually, we were worse than we are now. I mean, I've improved my inheritance. What's hard to change is the legacy you left in 2009. But strictly speaking of the economic situation, four years ago – and I'm going to talk about four years ago, we're not talking about the year 2009 – exactly four years ago, the gross domestic product of our community was decreasing, even going into negative numbers. And, obviously, then, now, our raw interior product has four quarters continued in black, i.e., speaking positively. Four years ago in the active population survey, of which today is the only one you want to talk about, you don't want to talk about other official data either, of course, and also real, as is the registered unemployment survey, in the active population survey of four years ago, you've increased unemployment by about two points, and today in the active population survey you're talking about is reducing 1.37 % unemployment, the unemployment rate, compared to last year. And also four years ago, I'm talking about four years ago -- I mean -- membership of social security in the inter-annual, actually, it was decreasing by 2.23%, and now it's growing by 2.20%. This means that in this legislation this government has changed, and to a positive extent, the indicators that accompany our economy and the indicators that accompany the situation of the labour market. You were speaking of the fact that there is a close link between the growth of gross domestic product and the situation of unemployment or employment in our community. And that was true. In fact, before, according to the production model we had, we had to be close to the growth of 2% to create net jobs, create net jobs, i.e. speaking positively, more jobs than are destroyed. That reality is not the one that now accompanies us with the change of our productive fabric, with the change of our production model, because, as you know, since 2014 is creating jobs with gross domestic product rates that have not yet reached 2%. I know you're not going to do an analysis of the government's management of the bipartisan, the government's training, because that's why you're an expert in selective memory and not conscious of what doesn't matter. But, of course, it must be remembered, too, and it must be remembered that this year of what you were talking about, which is the year 2009, when this government comes to this government, there were 50,000 people more stopped in the last year of the two-party government. And that's what you obviously don't remember. And yet, then, it must be remembered, Mrs. Thursdays, then you denied the crisis; then the Government that was in the Government of Galicia denied the crisis. That's how he made some budgets for the year 2009 absolutely irresponsible, which left this government when we arrived with our hands tied. GDP had already indicated in 2009 a reduction of –0.3 compared to the previous year. And, of course, he had sufficient economic indicators to change his economic policy in 2009. And I'm going to say another thing: of the whole period of crisis that this country and this community have been experiencing, of course, the toughest years since history is history that has experienced this country in unemployment figures and in economic figures, never – and I say again – in these six years of government there has never been an annual growth of 50,000 stopped at this rate. That's how you left Galicia. Obviously, I was left – I am sorry to say, Mrs. Quintas – seriously ill, without any kind of treatment and giving it unique and exclusively placebos. The policies of the People's Party are the ones that are turning these indicators around and the ones that have made it possible that when in 2009 the unemployed grew by 50,000, they are now decreasing by 25,000. You've lost 45,000 affiliates in your last year and there's 20,000 more affiliates in your last year. We've been on average for 18 months of consecutive annual unemployment reductions, we've been on average for 13 months of an annual positive increase in the membership of Social Security, that is, we're already fixing in some way the outcome we find when we arrive. And that's it, and we're -- and I'm going to say it -- on the path of recovery, on the path of economic growth, it's like it, like it or it doesn't like it. It's neither by chance nor by the statistical curves of the economy, it's obviously due to the policies developed by the People's Party. We can also talk about the quality of the contract. And there's something that the active population survey, of which you are now the only one you want to talk about, also says -- and you don't count -- is that of the 238,000 people who are now occupied 8 out of 10 have a full-time day, 8 out of 10 have a full-time day, that is, a day that fits within the parameters of what you define as quality, since the other defines it as precarious. In fact, 61.180 contracts were made in April, of which 61.37 % were the full day. I mean, somehow right now our market is trying to find not only job creation, it's already doing it, but looking for quality jobs. And we could spend the ten minutes of this interview by making all the comparative statistics that official surveys such as EPA, registered unemployment, membership of Social Security give us time to do them, but honestly, I believe that with regard to those 244,000 unemployed we now have in our community of what we have to talk about is at least the responsibility of the Government of Galician Union and how the situation that these 244,761 people live in concrete will be resolved, and, above all, explain to them what measures and policies we are developing from all over the Government of the United States of Galicia to change not only the economic situation but also the working situation. And indeed, the demographic situation, Mrs Quintas, you are talking about the shame of presenting a demographic dynamisation plan. Look, the shame is not to do anything, as did the bipartisan, who did absolutely nothing about the demographic situation. That's the shame. [[Applause]] We're working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u162	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u163	...now in the development of our policies through... –just a minute-...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u164	Mrs. Mato, I just told you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u165	Oh, I thought the watch was wrong. Now we're developing a roadmap where from the Business Council if you're marking the strategic plan of economic policy throughout the Galician Union for the next few years, which will be our roadmap, where, of course, there will be actions that directly affect the economy, improve our gross domestic product and therefore also employment. You were talking about this competitiveness agenda that has recently been approved by the Galego Industrial Competitiveness Council, where, by the way, social agents participate. I'm going back to: approved, social agents – trade unions and entrepreneurs – who recognize the efforts being made since the Government of Galicia to try to improve the situation of our industrial fabric, and I'm sure this will also strengthen industrial employment. And, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u166	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u167	...the internationalization of our companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u169	I'll continue later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u170	Parliamentary groups that want to intervene? Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u171	Good morning, Counselor. It brings me great frustration to hear the government, because when a government doesn't rule, the only thing you can do is to criticize and talk about the inheritance of those who ruled and advertise. That was his role here today, and he did no evaluation of the results of his economic and social policy. It disguises data as if it were to eliminate the problem, as if you said that most of the Welsh people have a full-time job and a decent salary had been turned into reality because you say so, when all the data show us that the Greek society is on the contrary to what you say, but they do nothing to remedy it. They insist because, precisely, they always give up ruling, they don't want to rule. Once again, when we were talking about Movistar, it was resorting to the state, but why do we have a German Government if it is unable to mediate in a labor conflict? It's really amazing. But the worst thing is, the situation doesn't improve: The general average industrial production index for the year, according to INE data – and we don't invent the data – accumulates a reduction of 4.1%, while in the state it has increased 1.1%. Gross domestic product data shows that the business of the Welsh industry is low and has reached its lowest level since 2005. The industry's gross value added in 2014 was 4,5 % less than in 2013 and 11,2 % less than in 2008. The weight of the industry on gross domestic product at market prices was higher than ten years ago than today at more than one point, from 17.5 years ago to 16.6 today. The weight of the manufacturing industry on the gross domestic product is still lower, at 11.9%. The fall in industrial activity in 2014 was 2.5%, while the state grew by 1.5%. The loss of exporting companies is obvious and focuses on their size, on their technological lack to be competitive and on logistics problems. Of the 6,383 companies that exported in 2013, some 148 stopped doing so in 2014, with a 3.2% drop in billing. Greek exports are highly concentrated in few companies: Index, Citroën and large metallurgical and steel companies. The fall in unemployment does not respond to an improvement in the labour market, but to emigration and the discouragement of those who have been unemployed for a long time and have already lost hope of finding employment. Of the 17,000 people who stopped appearing among the unemployed in Galicia, most respond to professionals who decided to emigrate, because the working-age Galician population has been reduced to 12,700. The rest responds to the frustration and discouragement of long-term unemployed. The job you create is increasingly precarious: low wages, part time, eventuality and overtime free of charge. Services and construction account for 79% of the unemployment reduction in Galicia. I repeat the other time: with construction and services we will not create quality jobs nor will we leave the stock of unemployed workers or create wealth. But industrial employment hasn't just come back again. The Economic Forum believes that Galicia will not reach the levels of employment prescribed before the next decade. In order to move forward, Galicia should increase at 5%. And according to the Forum it's not possible. The destruction of more than 12,700 work centres since 2007, one unemployment rate that was shot at 164 percent, the rolling of nearly 3% of gross domestic product makes it impossible. Galicia's productive model does not work, business fabric is mini-fundist, productivity is low, value added is not generated and not bets on either R+D+i or qualified employment. The abandonment of the rural environment, the disappearance of peasant communities, the lack of forest policy will bring the abandonment of the mountain and the increased risk of fires, the aging of the population and loneliness, unsustainable family burdens for women, higher rates of depression and suicide and greater insecurity. Dozens of thousands of agricultural holdings disappeared because peasants were literally driven out by dairy quotas. The abandonment of the countryside did not fall from the sky nor was it the result of the drag of a looting trade industry, as happened in other latitudes. The increase in fires is also not the result of a curse as we just talked about a moment ago. And without being aware of the causes that brought us to this situation of true social, ecological and economic emergency in the Galician agriturismo, we can hardly remedy anything. The policies of the Union have guided in the last twenty-five years to conceal the liquidation of the dairy sector, of agriculture, with modernization policies that concentrated the product on a small number of farms, with an insufficient territorial base and increasingly dependent on the purchase of food for livestock. The productive chain between livestock, industry and distribution today is established by the law of the jungle. Galicia produces 40% of state milk and the dairy industry located in Galicia does not reach 10%, in terms of employment and added value on the whole state, and that of German capital has not yet reached the third party. That is, by producing 40% of the milk, the German capital industry accounts for 3% of the state. And if there's no industry that completes the production chain, the Welsh dairy sector will remain vulnerable. A country without a living rural environment is doomed to food dependence. But it seems that this to the Government of the People's Party doesn't matter. 80% of women with employment belong to the service sector. Women's access to the labour market is not produced with the same intensity as men; male employment has risen by 70% more than female and female unemployment has decreased by less than half of male. 90.53 % of the new employment contracts are possible, compared to 9.4 of indefinite contracts. Women have the most precarious working conditions, and still above all we have to listen to how some companies intend to pay them in species or cans of preserving their wages. Women have higher percentages of part-time contracts. Of the people occupied in Galicia in the second quarter of 2014, 93.3% of men are busy full-time, compared to 77.9% of women. As for wages, Galicia is the third in the community queue, we have the third in the lowest in the state queue, and also decreasing since 2011, which was 1,787 to 1,728 in 2014. However, with regard to wages of corporate orders, Galicia is the sixth, i.e., that wage reductions are not equal according to categories. In 2010 the salary divide in Galicia was 13.5, today it is 24%. There is a strong horizontal gender segregation in certain occupations and sectors. In Galicia the men's rate of activity exceeds 9.5 points to women's. 20.9 per cent of households with children and dependent children are in poverty, which also increases by the number of minors. The situation is particularly worrying in single-parent homes, mostly headed by women, where almost half are in poverty. The average age of the population in 2004 was 43.4 years, January 1, 2013 of 45.6 years. The average age in 2014 was 45.9. So a 2.5-year-old age in a decade. The average age of the state population is 42.2 years. And the average age of the Greek women in 2013 was 47.2 years, compared to the 44 that it represented in 2012. The year 2014 left Galicia with a decrease in the relative weight of the population of Galicia compared to the total population of Spain. The aging index, which calculates the number of people aged 65 or more for every 100 persons under 20, shows that in Galicia there are 149.3 people over 65 for every 100 persons under 20. Galicia has the third general fertility rate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u172	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u173	...–I've finished – lower than the state. In 2013, 100,000 people under 35 left Galicia looking for work elsewhere. A total of 672.123 people in Galicia are at risk of poverty or exclusion, which means 15,714 more than in 2009. The rate of people at risk of poverty in Galicia is 17.2%, the population with severe material deficiencies at 4.6%. So I ask, what is the success, if any, of your economic and labour policy? And please don't hide behind the bipartisan government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u175	Good morning. Mrs. Mato, you continue to persist in the speech of the People's Party to make us believe that the situation is better – a speech repeated machaconically –; they want to actually convert the situation that thousands of Greeks and Greeks are not able to see anywhere. Now you've just said that the economic situation is better, and I ask you, for whom is it better?, for your Amancio Ortega idol, which turns out this year has entered 961 million euros by the dividends of Index, 66.6 million euros more than last year? Obviously, for his economic model, represented by Amancio Ortega, things are going better. I suppose you'll refer to that data as what the averages, right? Because if Amancio Ortega earns 961 million dividends, we divide it by 200 euros that many workers charge, it gives a fantastic average, so you can come here and say that things are going well. But you think that for the telephonic contract workers, who charge 600 euros a month – some of them – that these 600 euros buy them lunch and fuel from the cars they have moving in, and that in many cases even the company penalties pay them off their wages, do you think that for them, for example, things are going well? For those workers that the People's Party has just voted against you calling them, their representatives and businesses, to see, to mediate, to worry about their situation, do you think they're okay? Why don't you call them? I took a week ago, I took them, I took them to you, I called them to hear what their situation is, and you come to tell her here. For you to come to tell here the reality of the workers and workers of this country of Galicia, not the reality of the worlds of Yupi, Mrs Mato. Because the reality of the workers and workers in this country is not that everything is going well, they can go to those macroeconomic data where these 961 million Amancio Ortega count, but not the reality of most of the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, I'm not going to enter here in the data number, I'm going to give some, but I'm not going to enter here in the EPA data number or registered halt. The president of the board said in the morning that registered unemployment is people who point. Actually, the people who point. What about those who don't point? No count. Those who have left for emigration; you continue to deny that 147,000 people have left this country in recent years, continue to deny it, there is no emigration. Those who are no longer targeted because they have no prospect of finding a job, because they no longer charge any subsidies, because they already give up, they don't count, with which they don't exist. Then those don't exist. And I'm going to ask you a series of questions, this is an interpellation. Look, the people who work two hours a week, where do we count them, are they workers or are they unemployed, Counselor? The people who work three days a month, the people who only worked three days on Holy Week in April, and who aren't in registered unemployment, because they work an hour a month, you know they work an hour a month, they don't aim anymore, they don't count as registered unemployment, where do we put them? Are they workers or are they unemployed, Mrs. Mato? Those people who average half the minimum inter-professional salary, which are many in our country, where do we put them, in workers or unemployed? I'd like you to answer those questions. And when you say here that the economic situation is much better, because all the Tertullians already say so, as all the Tertullians have already said, the situation is better, why won't you ask all these people who live in this country and who think they have a government? But you turn out I'm not the Government of this country, because a week ago you refused to call the workers and workers of the telephonic contracts, because it turns out they have to agree on both sides and because it's a conflict in Madrid. You continue to give up being Galician Work Advisor. You keep saying that the issues are solved in Madrid. He said the indicators have been changed; the only indicator that you've changed is that instead of here the indicator puts "Galiza", you put the indicator towards Madrid. They're delegates from the Government of Madrid and they're not even here. It also made me a certain grace, which they say they make every effort to change the model. Look, the only model you change is the daily model you put in. But here they made no effort to change any economic model, no economic model. Look, the job being created in this country, in what sectors is it, Mrs Mato?, in what sectors is it? Is it by any chance in the industrial sector, which is one of the sectors that everyone agrees to say is where better working conditions can be? No, no, no, no. Where do you create jobs? In the services sector, in the cleaning sector, in the sector linked to the seasonality of tourism. And you say you create a job. Or in the construction sector, linked to municipal elections? And that's a model change? What model change is telling us here, Mrs. Mato? What model change is being sustained in the productive sectors of our country, have you set in motion? What model change that allows our boys and girls to live and work decently on our land have you set in motion? What model change have they set in motion that does not mean wages of poverty and slavery? I wish you in your reply had answered what you did from your advice to solve the brutal precariousness and increasing workers in our country. I'd like you to tell us what you've done to solve the problems of these workers and workers. How many steps have they taken to improve this situation? I'd like you to say what's the budget execution of your department in the year that ended in 2014. Why did they stop running millions of euros when we have the working population of this country in such a precarious situation? I'd like you to answer me. And I'd like you to reply to the many measures adopted by the Government of Madrid or the lives of the European Union if you have any objection from the German Government. How many of those tremendous measures for the Galician working class are you opposed to since the German Government? I think the answer would be pretty simple. The answer would be that to none, that you have just applied enthusiastically all and each of the measures that come to you from Madrid or that come from Europe. So you're going to apply the finalist budgets that come to you from Madrid and the European Union without requisition and without telling you that those budgets are not for the state of Galicia. You, when you say that the situation has improved, the truth is that thousands of people who attend an indecent wage gap are being insulted. Look, for every four new workers, almost half of them earn the minimum wage. Do you think that for these workers the situation has improved? New contracts are much lower than existing ones. Look, when a person gets fired and in that place they hire another person, if he's been working for a year, he's treated for a 25% lower than that of the previous person, but if that person hires her for the work of a person who's been working for ten years, it turns out that the salary is half what the person who's been working for ten years. Do you think that for those people has improved your situation, Mrs Mato? Look, those who earn less saw the payroll fall in the last few years about 10%, but those who pay the highest, the highest, saw the 24% rise. What does that mean? Increasing inequalities. What does that mean? That those who have more and more have more, and you come here and say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u177	...that the indicators have improved, come here and say all the Tertullians say it's all right. I insist: I'm going to ask all these people I'm talking about. Look, the occupancy rate between young Germans and young Greek women is only 32%, and of those who work, Mrs. Mato, more than 60% have temporary jobs. You said here a moment ago that last month I don't know how many contracts, that 60% were the full day. How many of those contracts were temporary and how many indefinite, Mrs Mato? He knows that the indefinite are not up to 8%, which we're talking about increasing the day contracts, the hour contracts, the totally precarious contracts, the contracts that are below the minimum inter-professional wage. That's your reality, Mrs. Mato. And I insist that, if that's who, tell me what you've done from your department to improve the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u180	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor, good day for you and for some more, surely for most of this country can't be. The truth is, I have little expectations of these interpelerations, and especially when you start by suggesting that your social reference is the Tertullians. He just thought everything was okay because all the Tertullians recognized that the economy was okay. You walk on the street, go... look, let me work, talk, if I don't interrupt I keep working. [[Murmurs.]] Madam President, you're not letting me finish. He won't let me finish and then it's me they call the order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, I'm going to try to make a positive proposal, but listen to me first, quiet. Really, you have to be quiet. I know you don't have any arguments to argue with what I'm going to say, but tranquility. It was planned that it is certainly regrettable that you don't have as reference to the street, plates, businesses or situations where people don't have jobs. For example, you may not have as reference the queues of unemployment, because what Mr. Rajoy did when he arrived at the Government was not reducing unemployment, but eliminating the queues of unemployment by setting out the previous quote, which, of course, must be paid. But you mentioned here the recovery of employment. I'd like you to have taken into account one question: do you know what they call recovery, returning to the economy of beer and brick, where is the economy where the only jobs that are created are in construction and services? By the way, you mention the unemployment data here in April, but it doesn't say, for example, that a large part of this data, almost half, has to do with that city council's planning to do just work during the election period, to try to tie up its mayoral offices. That's a reality of the Popular Party's clientalism. But you're not able to explain things that are certainly the time to explain. How is it possible to increase the number of jobs that are believed to be more than membership of Social Security? Well, it's very easy, just because the data on registered unemployment has to do with disenchantment, with people who stop pointing, but not creating so many jobs. Unemployment is lower than the number of jobs that are created. So we're in a situation that has an end that won't be very good. And in addition, the economic indicators themselves say that with this rate of job creation it is very likely that we will not recover the employment and unemployment data before the crisis until 2030, with which we are in a situation of chronicling unemployment and very little possibility of exit. But besides, what kind of job do you create? You haven't done here an analysis of the kind of job you create. I'm going to give you a personal data that happened yesterday when you left this Parliament: a worker who comes to a job offer in a Salnes hotel, and the job offer means they're going to pay you 4.76 euros an hour. That's the job model you're defending: exploitation by the exploitation of workers and workers. And you come to this gallery and defend what's better than any job than any job. And that's not true, you can't afford exploitation, you can't use workers as a meat for sale, which is what you're trying to do and what you encourage. I repeat: EUR 4.75 per hour. Would you be able to live with 4,75 euros an hour if you would also eliminate the gifts that they give you, for example, those that are charged in the Zeta plot? Surely you wouldn't be able to live, would you? I'm sure he wouldn't be able to. But besides talking about these types of contracts, do you know what the average wage you're receiving is all the new contracts you're talking about in April? Most, 60%, less than 800 euros gross a month. Could you also explain to me how it is possible that labour costs are reduced brutally in the past year? Can you explain how they might work longer hours and cover less? Could you explain to me how they exist in Galicia every week thousands of extra hours worked and not charged? What are you doing from your advice to avoid this exploitation? Could you explain how it is possible in addition to the fact that 91% of the new contracts are temporary and a large part of these are temporary, in addition to part-time? Because it's not a worker's decision, which wants part-time work, it's not true. 62% of the workers who have a part-time contract wanted it in full-time, but they're actually masking up to ten-hour days with part-time contracts. So you have not only increased the unemployment figures in this country, if we go to the real data and compare them, for example, with the population that disappeared from Galicia last year, but also the job you create is slave employment, absolutely slave employment. But what about those who are out of the labour market? Why don't you give the data here from the dramatic unemployment figures of under 25, or over 45, or long-term unemployed? Why don't you explain to me here how we're at least in history of unemployment benefits? The people who stay in unemployment today have much less chance of having unemployment aid than before. And we're at least historical, minimal historical, the worst figure in the whole democratic era of this country. Can you explain how it's possible that if you're going to unemployment now the most normal thing is that you don't have any kind of benefit? Do you know how much Galicia will be saved in unemployment benefits in the year? About 236 million euros. I mean, you [...] 236 million euros to the unemployed in this country, that because of their reforms they have less chance of accessing these unemployment benefits. [[By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]] Do you know what your department's budget for employment, job promotion and training is? Only EUR 189 million. In other words, in Galicia we are going to pay much less in unemployment benefits than we are spending, for example, on our employment training programmes. So we could say that the unemployed in this country are subsidising the benefits that do not charge their department, a department unable to get us out of the situation in which we find ourselves. So we have asked you once: what is your goal now?, what policies will encourage you, will you continue in that decision that the People's Party has made to convert Galicia into a community, in one of the three thirds, where one third of the population will be excluded forever?, do you have any mechanism to control the excess of the day that is not paid, and that is no longer paid in this country, because for the first time in history there are many more extra hours that are done without charge than those that are charged? Can you explain, in addition, how will you try to improve the income of the employees in this country? Because there is no recovery without wages worthy of people, and therefore activating domestic demand. And all those issues are above the table. And you came here first to make text comments from the bipartisan. By the way, you're making yourself a little disgusting about this! It's not time to talk about the bipartisan, we're already tired, you've been six years and you could have some proposal. And he said, "No, no, I'll make proposals." I didn't hear a single proposal. That's right, talking about the whole bipartisan, like it was just a few months ago. You've been ruling for a long time, and you have to put some sort of proposals on the table. We keep waiting, because your proposal – I insist – is that of precariousness and working at any price. So, above the table, you have several goals that I should propose: first, what will you do with the People's Party's labour reform? Will you follow that line of accepting that we are in a labour market where people have no rights and, in addition, have worse wage conditions? Will you accept as normal that we continue above 25% of unemployment until 2035? Is that something acceptable to you or does he have any plans for a shock plan in that sense? And, above all, what will you do to protect all those unemployed, who in Galicia are many thousands, who are left without any kind of benefit? From official data, about 150,000 Welsh people who are in a state of unemployment do not receive any kind of help. What are you going to do with them? I give you the data and I repeat: they are spent in Galicia 236 million euros on benefits and we just spend, for example, 47 million euros on what has been called Risk. So there's a very effective deprotection. The reality is, what is the photograph of our labor market? More unemployment than when you came to the government, employees with worse conditions, worse wages and worse working hours, and, besides, all those who don't have a job with worse benefits. So you have these challenges on the table, and I ask you once and for all not to comment on the text of what is said in the tertules, what did the bipartite do, and put on the table some proposals that allow us to think that we have Government, because I think we really do not have Government; we have only a very bad management of the funds coming from the Union and the funds coming from the European Union for training policies, which it is clear that they are not solving the serious needs of our labour market...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u181	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u182	...so those are the issues that are on the table. And by the way, I'd like you to put on the table some quantitative analysis of the programs that were sold by your board as regards female employment, as well as the employment of young people or older 55. You came here to sell us on those shows a long time ago, but there's a very strict analysis of what the data is, which are the interventions that allowed these workers to be placed. And, above all, if you can unbundling me those unemployment figures that you're showing last month, how many of them don't have to do with the electoral clientelism of the People's Party and how many of them have to do with economic activation. I'd tell him the reality: practically none. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. I'm sorry, but besides some qualification I'm not going to enter, I'm not going to let you say that the Counsellor and the Government of Galicia steal or stop stealing. And so I call it the order and I ask you to remove that expression. It's the second! [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] People's Group, you have the floor Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that it is a bravery that is precisely the Socialist Party, with so many groups in the opposition, who are taking an initiative in this plenary to teach jobs. Precisely the Socialist Party, the biggest job-killer in our country's history. You who denied the crisis and who now deny the recovery, you who were the executioners of hundreds of thousands of workers who lost their jobs during Mr. Zapatero's Government period. [[Murmurs.]] You come to this full... If you don't like the word "verduce" I'll say: beatings, beatings of hundreds of thousands of workers... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u185	Sir... excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u186	...that they lost their jobs during the Zapatero government, in particular, 3 million workers in Spain have been unemployed thanks to you. [[Murmurs.]] And you are the ones who come to teach this plenary. I won't remind you of what socialist illustriouss said about Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's rule: Pedro Solbes, Joaquín Leguina, Paco Vázquez... There are many voices that have been raised from the ranks of the Socialist Party to demonstrate their mismanagement of employment. You censored the labour reform of the People's Party forgetting that months earlier they had promoted one that went forward precisely because a gentleman like Pedro Sanchez gave you the button of himself. [[Murmurs.]] That's why you don't wake up because you have weak memory. But I'm going to talk to you about something today, which I'm sure you remember. Today the newspaper La Voz de Galicia publishes an interview by the former Secretary General of the Socialist Party in Galicia, former Socialist MP Pachi Vázquez, who says, by the way, many truths, from the headline to the last line. One of the truths said in that interview: "Coherence has to be the fuel of politics." Well, Mrs. Quintas, be consistent... they have to say what they've done, what they say guard about what they've done. [[Murmurs.]] You are the party to unemployment, that is coherence; we are the party to economic recovery. And on the other side of the opposition there is political opportunism, political opportunism than the worst for them. [[Applause]] Mrs. Quintas, your government has left 3 million unemployed between 2008 and 2011. That was obscene – which is a word that you like very much – and obscene: 3 million unemployed. Today we can say that in Spain there are 351,000 unemployed less than a year ago, unemployment has dropped by 7.5% in the last 12 months. [[Murmurs.]] And we can say that today there are 588,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago, and that youth unemployment has dropped by almost 10% in the last 12 months, 82,000 young people have found employment in the last 12 months, Mrs. Quintas. And I'm sorry to give you a clue: when the Socialist Party left the Government of Spain, there were 4,422,000 unemployed in Spain; today there are 4,339,000 unemployed in Spain. It's a lot, but it's 90,000 less than when the Socialist Party ruled, and you shut up. So from employment, lessons from the Socialist Party, none. Much remains to be done, of course, but what is clear is that we are going in the right direction: low unemployment, growing economy. And the Socialist Party has to come here to say precisely the opposite of what they did when they ruled. Pay attention to Mr. Pachi Vázquez, be consistent; at least shut up. This is the lesson Mr. Pachi Vázquez gives you today in the newspaper La Voz de Galicia. We're talking about unemployment in Galicia. It's just that you're upset that we're talking about registered unemployment, and it's that in the last month it's been down in more than 7,000 people. Of course, you're upset, the biggest drop since 1996. Mrs. Díaz, you turn your back now because you don't like the numbers. He went down in April, which he hasn't been down since 1996. Eighteen months of consecutive international reductions, Mrs. Díaz. You don't care, today there are 25,000 unemployed less than a year ago in Galicia, 10%, Mrs. Díaz. Thanks to this evolution Galicia returns to levels similar to those of 2011... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u187	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u188	Miss Díaz, as much as bothers you. [[Murmurs.]] And the advisor has already told them that in the last year of the bipartite unemployment has grown to 51,000 people from March 2008 to March 2009, and that's what you can assume. We came here to say that in the last year of the Feijóo government unemployment fell in 25,000 people; with you the reason was 51,000 unemployed in the last year. And today there are 45,000 unemployed less than in April 2013, today there are 32,000 unemployed less than in April 2012, and we are now in a similar figure as in 2011. Enough? No, but the truth and what is undeniable is that unemployment is falling and that's what bothers you so much. You ask for data, you want to talk about data, it's not worth talking about registered unemployment. Well, let's talk about GDP, data from the European Commission yesterday. It bothers you that in Spain GDP will grow by 2.8% this year, or 2.9%, Germany will grow by 1.9; Spain will grow by 2.8, Italy will grow by 0.6; Spain will grow by 2.8, Portugal will grow by 1.6; Spain will grow by 2.8, France by 1.1; Spain will grow by 2.8 and Greece – its model, Mrs Díaz – will grow by 0.5. So these are their references; we, of course, have other very different ones. Mrs. Prado, about your intervention, I regret that you fall into the vulgarity of making macho comments like what you did about models and models; macho comments that are still more serious when they come precisely from a woman. [[Murmurs.]] And don't be mistaken, Mr. Jorquera was speaking today that the Greeks are in danger of extinction. No, sir!, what is in danger of extinction is the Nationalist Block Galego next May 24th in the municipal elections. Don't be mistaken, it's you who are in danger of extinction. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] About your work in front of the industry in Galicia I won't remind you of what they did or what they didn't. You guys did it was set off with the wind competition, trying to privatize Astano and a little more. That's the legacy of the Galician Nationalist Block when he was given the opportunity to rule in this country. Mr. Fajardo, the truth is that it is not credible to listen to the Alternative Left Gaga show concern about the employment situation. They cannot come to this full attention to show concern about the employment situation and at the same time come to this Parliament and ask for the closure of Reganosa – there are workers, you want to throw us in the street – the closure of Ence – there are workers, you want to put us in the street – the closure of the thermal power plant of the bridges – which pollutes the workers in the street. That's your proposal, you want to end mining and you're against the marine wind; of course, a future opportunity for Ferrol. They're not credible from the Gaga Alternative on the left. By the way, I must remind you that members of your party are included in the list of gift receivers of the Pokémon operation. I'm saying this so you'll be careful when I make certain comments. So I said the saying about the Alternative Left Galeg and all the companies you want to close, I understand, I think it is reasonable for you to present yourself to these municipalities under pseudonyms. You leave your traditional acronyms, I'm no longer United Left, I'm no longer Anova, not even Left-Galga Alternative. Now they have pseudonyms that are tides, under that name, that I have the feeling that they're not citizen tides, but they're marine cognas manipulated by the United Left and the Alternative Left Galician. [[Applause]] You were talking about data -- sailors, yes, yes -- they're not worth the data on unemployment, because we're talking about EPA, which is what Mrs. Quintas and Mrs. Díaz want to talk about. [[Interruptions.]] EPA, first quarter of 2015, increases occupation, 4,500 more busy; lower unemployment, 21,200 fewer unemployed; lower unemployment rate, now at 21,8, two points below the average of Spain – by the way, Mrs Díaz, twelve points below the average of Andalusia, which is at 33% –; lower the number of homes with all members in situations of unemployment, 6,600 less than a year ago; lower youth unemployment rate, is at 45.6%, four points less than a year ago, six points less than the average of Spain, eighteen points less than Andalusia – the model of the Socialist Party –. [[Applause]] But of course, what is the model here of the others? The Socialist Party has already said this: its model is Andalusia, the highest unemployment rates in Spain. Alternative Left Galicia has other models...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u189	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u190	...which are the models of Bolivarian missions. We were talking about it this morning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mission Che Guevara, which has much to do with the formation of the National Spirit of Franchisy, is its model. Mission 13 April, a mission born with a view to strengthening popular power through the creation of communes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Alternative Left Gaul, the Berlin Wall fell in 1989... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u191	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u192	...and they're still on top of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u193	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u194	...the waterfalls of that fall, that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] We're working to get Galicia out of the crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u195	A call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u196	...and progress in the path of economic recovery. We're working to reactivate the economy, to create productive fabric, to encourage recruitment, to improve employability of unemployed people. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And we do it through programmes: Youth employment programme, integrated employment programmes, employment workshops, through dual training, programmes for long-term unemployed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u198	... programmes for persons at risk of social exclusion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u199	Your time is up, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u200	...autonomous. That's what we're dedicated to reducing unemployment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u201	I know the comparisons are not timely, but, in any case, the only thing is that – as I told Mr. Fajardo – I'm not going into any of the qualifications you've used. But in any case, even if I had removed the expression, I'm going to call it in exactly the same order. And that's the comparison with Mr. Fajardo. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] You have a word on Mrs. Quintas' replica. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, I remind you that there are two calls to order. Mrs. Quintas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. Tellado, as long as you have the whole argumentary there and say all this strip of names doesn't advance in the chair, it's still in the same chair. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, on the other hand, coherence, ready. Look: Pachi Lucas, Martial Dorado, Pablo Crespo, Gerardo Crespo – Counsellor –, Bárcenas, Nacho González, Francisco Granados, Rus..., at last! You know? I'm not on any list. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, I think you're confusing the papers. The Socialist Group made an inquiry which, if I am not mistaken in my humble knowledge, I ask and you come here and answer. But, well, the papers are changed, they release a [...], to read lists... can you say? [[By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u203	Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u204	I'll take it back, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u205	At the end of the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u206	And the Counsellor, instead of giving an answer to your management, what you come here is to exercise as a deputy, talk about the bipartisan, talk about what you do, counselor, what you do, what your government does. Since you rule, more than 10,000 jobs have disappeared in public employment, a lot more, there are no replacement rates. Since you rule, you live with all your members unemployed, 95,000, with an increase of 112% since 2009. Since you've been in government, employment promotion programs have been down by more than half, 50.70%. The ineffectiveness, the ineffectiveness of the government manifests its inactivity to make active employment policies that you don't even execute as little as you plan. The runlevel in 2013, 35%; in 2012, 29%; in 2011, 33%, etc. I'm not giving him any data you know and hide. The president came to this House to present a Modernization Plan, a Galician Employment Plan, well, which was Galicia's second modernization, which was going to end... come on, this would be wonderful. I wonder, Counselor, why neither you nor Mr. President give account of that plan nor assume of that plan and have forgotten that plan. Because you had a moment here that this was the game of "One, Two, Three, Plan"; they brought 32 plans, they didn't budget any, they didn't do anything, and the situation is that Galicia has a lot more unemployment than the Spanish state. Mr. Tellado said it turns out that Galicia was growing, I don't remember if it was 8.2%, and Germany was 9.2%. Well, I'm seeing hordes of Germans invading Galicia to work in Galicia, because there they live very badly, they all come here to work. [[Applause]] Look, it's a lack of rigor. But that's not the worst, it's a lack of respect for the people who are unemployed. You were talking about April, you know what's going on in April? If the data came out on April 30, we'd already seen: a Holy Week, precarious work... a hostel was where the unemployment fell most; in the hostel, two-hour contracts. And another little thing, which you're doing very well too: construction, we're in pre-election time, they're coming in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u207	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u208	...people come in all corners to work in the mountains, no work, no work, not even work. That's what happens, Counselor. That's what happens, that you when there's no elections present plans that soon don't run; and when there's elections, they open a gap to get precarious jobs, while young people leave Galicia. People no longer focus on unemployment because the benefit they're going to have is useless, while long-term unemployed people increase, while long-term unemployed benefits are null. That's the reality you have. And, Counsellor, I would like to thank you for a little bit of respect for this parliamentary group, for this honourable Member and for the whole House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u209	Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u210	...are the data that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas, your time is up. [[Mrs. Quintas Álvarez speaks words which are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Quintas, although you have removed your unfortunate qualification, you know you also have a call to order. I'm not going to repeat it. You have the word of the counselor... and I'll tell you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u213	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. You make an inquiry to me, Mrs. Quintas, tell me that you speak here and that you answer your inquiry, and I, in fact, am trying to remember all the data I gave in my first intervention, and, like all the others, I am convinced that you must turn off the chip and not listen to me, or, at least, you don't want to hear my answer, or, ultimately, you don't like what we say. Because, of course, this counselor is here giving an answer to whom she calls and not to give an answer to those who stand on this question. And even if that's the case and they don't like it, because I'm going to be disgusting, because, indeed, I don't like to remember that the Socialist Party even ruled in Spain, and that also in Galicia, and that didn't do it right. As I don't like to remember either, which seems to be something that all of us are obvious, that Galicia is in a situation, as much as it bothers some, that I still don't understand it, better than many autonomous communities, especially at work rates. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to talk if by chance or they won't listen to me or I'm lying. Galicia has a 21.8% unemployment rate, is it or isn't it? Yeah, okay. It's the recent population survey out. What unemployment rate does Andalusia have, this one that cannot be mentioned, because every time we mention Andalusia, it seems like we're lying to the devil? What unemployment rate do you have Andalucía?, what unemployment rate do you have Canarias?, what unemployment rate do you have Extremadura?, what unemployment rate? About 30%. Finally, Mrs. Quintas, we are talking about all the communities in the south, which have a unemployment rate above 30%, where it is, by the way, far from the unemployment rate at which our autonomous community is located. And, therefore, a little seriousness when we want to tell the Greeks and the Greeks the situation in which we find ourselves. Of course, as counsellor... Then they say I don't answer... [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u214	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u215	Then they say I don't. There's a lot left to do, of course, there's a lot left to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u216	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u217	I'm most interested in telling the Greeks and the Greeks that, in fact, we are aware from the Government of Galicia that there are 244,000 people left today on registered unemployment, that there is a lot of work left to do, that here we are not doing any kind of country like Alice's in the country of wonders, but quite the opposite, but that the measures and decisions are being taken to change the course and to effectively convert our community into a community of economic growth and a community that is now able to create membership for social security over 20,000 people, like last year. And even not only are we able to create jobs, but also to move forward so that these jobs are quality jobs. And that quality we're looking at is to talk about full recruitment days and even talk, of course, about indefinite contracts, not both mixed. To talk about full recruitment days and to say that today the number of full recruitment contracts has increased over a year ago. It is true that we now have 62% of the contracts that were made in April in a full day, a full eight-hour day. That's the reality, which we had at the time of kindness is about 70%. I mean, there are still eight points left to get to that figure that was at the time of bonanza, yes. Do you like 70%? Not to me. I don't even like it at the time of kindness. Obviously, what we have to continue is continuing. And exactly the same as the indefinite contract. Now we're about 9% of contracts that are indefinite; at the time of bonanza it was about 12%. Do you like hiring 12% indefinitely? Not me. Obviously, what we have to do is work from the Galician Board to put proposals on the table. Proposals that some say there isn't and that we don't put them on. It's not like we don't say it, it's that they're even shaped into the budgets of the Galician Union, and even running even though the opposition doesn't seem to listen to the proposals or even plans. He was talking about the economy that develops from the other departments of the Galician Union, which, of course, many of them have been with consensus, and now I'm going to talk about the policies that this council has put in place. For example, youth unemployment. What are the results? –he asked an illustrious Member, who is not now, by the way, not interested in the answer – what are the results of the Youth Employment Plan? The result is that in 2014 there was a decline in youth unemployment of 21.8%, i.e. Galicia was placed as the autonomous community where unemployment has most declined in children under the age of 25. And this is the result of a youth employment plan that has been put in place, which now has EUR 150 million and with 19 new measures, actually linked to a collective that is a priority for us, as is the collective of long-term unemployed... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u218	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u219	...through a complementary plan, such as entrepreneurship. Here I come to answer my question, another thing is that you want to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u220	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Ramón Vázquez Díaz and two other Members of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative on the application of LOMCE in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u221	To formulate his intercession you have the word of Mr. Ramon Vázquez
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u222	Well, good day to all of you again. We have talked extensively in this Chamber about the consequences that LOMCE has for our country, for Galicia. From AGE, in addition, we have asserted in a roundabout way that this norm is so perverse and harmful, its own application, as the followers' attitude, continuously submitted to this government in applying the rule in Galicia in a completely literal way to the intentions of Minister Wert in Madrid. That separatist, submissive and complicit attitude was accompanied, if any, by a more serious attitude. Because in the face of the criticism that this government suffered from the application of LOMCE, when it had to show a more gentle face, it often raised the argument that this was an organic law and therefore was obliged to comply with its precepts, since it was a law of thank-you compliance. In this way they did not do the same as other autonomous communities, which interfered with resources of unconstitutionality – five communities, nothing more and nothing less – in front of this LOMCE, making use of and defending the educational rights of their people and their country. But not only has there not been an appeal of unconstitutionality, the Greek Government has had and has the opportunity, it still has the opportunity to request the convening of a bilateral cooperation commission, which can be held at the instance of each of the parties: central government and autonomous communities. He didn't. It did not do so despite the fact that this is a possibility covered by State legislation, and specifically referred to in the Order of 12 March 2003, so that the operation and establishment of bilateral commissions between the General Government of the State and the autonomous communities themselves are approved and regulated. That order provides that these committees may be set up to study proposals for solutions to issues affecting both administrations in matters of their competence. It also states that these bilateral commissions may examine any matter affecting both parties, and in particular those which are intended to prevent or resolve conflicts of competition by extra-procedural means. He didn't do it, and it seems he's not willing to do it to the German Government. But if it was done by the Basque Government, a government, in addition, on the right. He made it by convening his relevant bilateral commission by which he reached agreements, important agreements, on the change in the application of LOMCE in the Basque Country, in such important paragraphs as the functioning of school councils and even the use of official languages in teaching in educational institutions in the Basque Country. But in Galicia we don't have a government that defends the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, we have a government that is kind of a branch of the Central Government, which in turn is a kind of branch of the European Union. Upon reaching this point, the German Government continues to be frenziedly delivered to an application of LOMCE hastened, evicted and lacking the minimum organisational criteria. Even if the primary education curriculum was approved, and published on 9 September, once the school course was already in progress. And now, in recent times, causing alarm to a large part of the educational community and, of course, of all the families of the children and the children of Greece, the Council has sent instructions to the educational centres in Galicia to carry out the third-party primary education revals. Revaled, let's remember, it's going to happen to 22,000 gales and 8-year-olds. A test without any kind of academic value, whose results will not be part of the academic record of children and children, and which will only be used to compare the performances of the different educational centers in the country. A revalid, therefore, qualifiers, starting from standardized tests to carry out rankings from different educational centers. Evidence that, in addition, does not contribute or enrich the process of teaching and learning students. Evidence to establish primary and secondary education centres. Revalities that do not include methodological adaptations or curricular adaptations for students with special educational needs. Revalids that will put 8-year-olds and children under pressure and stress are absolutely unnecessary, unnecessary because they don't contribute anything to their teaching and learning process. A revalid, therefore, anti-pedagogic, that ignores that in our educational system evaluation has a continuous and formative character, and not a finalist, as proposed here. The evaluation in our schools, in our schools, is aimed at comparing the evolution of the teaching and learning process of children and children, detecting the difficulties of learning students, but also detecting the difficulties of teachers; not only does the student evaluate, evaluate the teacher, evaluate the schools, evaluate the functioning of the educational system. The continuous and formative evaluation is aimed at establishing methodological changes to retrain teaching and learning processes, and is carried out daily, not only with tests, not only with tests, but also with direct observation of the teacher and with interviews with families. In addition, the evaluation also aims to inform families about the educational and academic performance of children and children, and thus to establish the necessary collaboration mechanisms between family and school. All this is already being done in the centers, all this is already done in the centers, but we understand it would be legitimate to try to improve and introduce improvements in the evaluation systems, but this does not seem to be the line of this government. Far from this, the German Government implements a standardized assessment to make education centres with purely statistical purposes compete with each other. A real aberration, because we also know that it is absolutely impossible to compare different educational realities. It's impossible to compare a luxury mountain center with an educational center of an urban environment. It is impossible to compare the student, and its results, of a family of high socioeconomic level with the results of the student of a center of the urban periphery, with families experiencing difficulties, obstacles, and social exclusion. How can the results and evolution of the learning process of these students be compared through a standardized test, through a test containing the same questions and waiting for the same answers from all students? This is an absolutely uniform and impoverishing vision of teaching and learning processes. So it's not just an anti-pedagogic and useless test, it's a tremendously discriminatory one. They clearly and clearly discriminate against the student. But, Counselor, you're also hiding information from the citizenry. There are already communities that will not apply this revalide. And there are other communities that will apply them only in certain pilot centres; these are the cases of Asturias and Euskadi. So there are communities that don't apply them, and that explains that you may not apply them. Besides, you're not reporting correctly to families, you're cheating on them. You have an obligation to inform families that this evidence is voluntary, that they are not obliged to do it. You know that families can refuse to have their children subjected to this test. You know that these tests are not included in the annual general programming of the centers; they could not be, since the curricula were delivered and published once the course began.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u223	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u224	And you know that no one can force any family to test your son externally, extra-academicly and aimlessly. He knows families can be denied. They know that families can send a letter to the centers saying they don't want their son to do that test. They don't even have to send their children to their center that day. So, in the face of this situation, of this serious situation that is very concerned about Greek citizenship, we want and we believe that it is your obligation today to tell the truth here and tell families that they don't have to force their children to go through that bad drink. That's why we bring this interpellation here today. First, to make an assessment of the agreement to amend the application of LOMCE through a bilateral agreement between the Basque Government and the Central Government. And secondly, ask him whether you've planned to do the same, to request the constitution of that committee for bilateral agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u225	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Vázquez Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. [[Applause]] The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u226	Thank you very much, Your Honor. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the first thing I wanted to say is that LOMCE is being applied in the Spanish whole by all autonomous communities, including those with greater political belligerence. If it's true that many autonomous communities often do political divergent gestures, but they're little more than gestures. And I myself witnessed one of these gestures. At the last sectoral conference on 21 April, several communities – including the Basque Country, which points out Mr Vázquez – stood up from the table without negotiating anything at all. Obviously, it wasn't the first time this happened, but the truth is, then all autonomous communities are negotiating as organic law is put in place. It's logical, it's logical, you can't break an organic law and an administration can't be insubmitted. But regardless of these actions, which we can respect and understand from the political game, but which, of course, we do not share, the Greek Government understands that LOMCE is respectful of constitutional architecture and competence, and so it is highlighted in the main documents, in the Spanish Constitution, in the Statute, etc., even was endorsed by the Council of State. And I think Galicia has been applying, and it's applying LOMCE, given the importance that it also has to adapt some of these principles to the Greek case. And answering the specific question that you put to us, I told you that we respect all the communities, but in the specific case that you quoted, and that you quoted here, I really think you could have saved bilateral agreements, because in the end, if you take the Official State Bulletin and really see what makes that agreement that you quote, almost all the points begin at the same time: "Both parties agree to interpret." It's really a document that's politically interesting, the Basque Country can use it to say it's negotiating, but really, what's fulfilling LOMCE. Because LOMCE does not, in any case, prevent the exercise of its own educational powers by the autonomous community. That is to say, LOMCE says that there is a state competition framework and an autonomous competition framework, and in the case of German it is being applied completely normally. Obviously, what you've been thinking here is you're trying to move a political stance on the LOMCE that's already known. You don't like LOMCE, and therefore everything that has to do with your development, they don't apply it. What is the position of Union with respect to LOMCE? We understand that this is an opportunity to improve the system. We have said this is an opportunity to improve the system: to make it more flexible; to be able to customize it; to be able to evaluate it; to be able to boost the culture of effort; to have a real equality of opportunities; to have greater autonomy of the centers and to have more attractive and flexible vocational training. This makes it possible for LOMCE. Obviously, you were alarmists. When LOMCE was implanted, they said it was going to be a chaos, an authentic chaos, which obviously was not, their predictions were not fulfilled. LOMCE is being applied in Galicia, in this course, quite normally. The adaptation in primary and basic vocational training of LOMCE has been initiated, without giving up its own competences, with total normality and without a drastic rupture, without any chaos, as you may have suggested. Galicia already has new decrees in primary and basic vocational training in time and form, and this is allowing for a certain stability in the system; it is enabling a strengthening of basic competences, mainly in those areas in which we have a greater weakness, particularly mathematics; it is enabling linguistic balance between both official languages of the country and also enabling the insertion of foreign languages; it is also betting on the introduction of basic vocational training. Finally, it's in a planned process, where improvisation is zero. And what's happening now? Well, now what we're doing is basically working on that bachelor's curriculum. We have a draft already submitted. The draft itself obviously focuses on those strong ideas that need to be promoted: strengthening learning by competences; strengthening mathematics, as it is done in primary; enhancing the autonomy of the centers; further personalizing teaching according to the characteristics of the student or the needs or the will of the student, so there is a greater development of options and subjects of free configuration, of course, maintaining linguistic balance. As you know, the decree of this bachelor's degree passed last week through the sectoral table, and it has to be said that in this case trade union organizations have manifested themselves quite responsible, because they have made constructive approaches. Many of them will be taken into account, for example, the expansion of hours to impart philosophy. Here each one has his own responsibilities and each one has to know what his or her responsibility is. And the responsibility of this government, as it cannot be otherwise, is to comply with basic regulations and is to work day by day to improve the education system. And to improve the education system, you have to have information and you have to know where you are and where we want to move forward. And here we go into the debate that we have these days on the table, where the evaluation is. We understand that evaluation is the best way to know the weaknesses and ponds in the methodology of the learning process of children and children. Look, there's no need to be afraid of evaluations. By the way, it is done in the countries of our environment, in the community environment, without any problems. And look, when you talk about deceiving families, encouraging them, for their part, to do something that's in an organic law, you should do it look at it, because you're telling families that this will enable them to set up rankings, and that's cheating families. You're saying that this is going to set notes, that it's going to segregate, and say that's cheating, Mr. Vázquez, the families. Look, when you say this is a revalide you're deceiving families. Why? Because it is impossible, as this evidence is put forward, to put forward numerical parameters, because concrete matters are not evaluated, competences are evaluated. And it's not done, in any case, to discriminate or to segregate. I'd say more, it's the other way around. Why is it the other way around? Because the educational administration, teachers, centres and families will know, from the beginning of the formative process of children and children, the educational situation of each child; they will detect what is possible in the educational system and will be able to put in place corrective measures that will allow the retraining, if any, of the training deficiencies that can be detected as young as they are, because the sooner they are done it is better. And it is much better to be able to assess and correct than to do nothing and send them all to school failure, and to have the highest rate of school failure in Spain – around a quarter of the students, Galicia 16% –. It gives the feeling that what you don't want is to stimulate a culture of effort, of work, in the whole educational system, which is for the benefit of students and that it is possible to have information from students so that they can start programmes and projects that are, precisely, oriented towards reducing the weaknesses that can be detected. That's why schoolchildren, students, are the main beneficiaries, because the results are going to make it possible to take better measures. Look, you're encouraging a boycott. Surprising. Surprising! You're against, first, that families know how their children's learning evolves. Something quite frankly surprising! And I'm asking for responsibility. Why am I asking you for responsibility? Because, if you don't, the injured will be the children, the children, and the families, because we will lack tools to complement the continued evaluation, to allow and enable individualized care projects and plans to be implemented so that we can improve the weaknesses that can be detected in these processes. Look, I ask you – and I am finished, Madam President, to use your energies in something more positive than they are doing; to be responsible, because you are encouraging a process that can only serve for the education system as a whole, so that you have less information about how the educational situation of children and children is and support programs cannot be put in place just for those students and students who have more educational problems. You're finally launching messages that eventually harm the students. First, all students. And second, and especially, those students...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u227	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u228	...who have more training weaknesses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u230	And not to make this assessment is to condemn them in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u231	Thank you very much, Counselor. Intervention of the groups. Mrs. Churches. Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u232	Thank you, President. I want to remind you first of all that the children and girls in Galicia perform with the teacher or teacher who corresponds to a continuous evaluation that is the most reliable, least aggressive, and that is working very well. Don't underestimate us, please. We evaluate very well the children and the children, with whom we live every day and with whom we care and we want. That's on the one hand. On the other hand, there are six, Mr Counsellor, autonomous communities with competences in education and education, which are those six communities that are absolutely similar: Euskal Herria, Catalonia, Andalusia, Valencia, Canary Islands and Galicia. This transfer of competences took place with regard to autonomous communities where – you said before – political, social and educational problems could have caused. The result of all this is that the so-called MEC territory is residual, quantitatively minor, and, from a political point of view, of insignificant symbol. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has assumed full competence in education and education, almost identical to that of Basquel Herria. The German Federation of ANPA asks the Galician Council to negotiate LOMCE with the Ministry on the basis of these powers and the bilateral Commission agreement signed with Basquel Herria. Ask him to follow the example of a community that has done so well – in this case the Basque Country – to intervene in educational content or to democratize the decisions of educational centres, such as the regulation of the functions of school councils. The agreement reached with the Basque Country reaches the different aspects of the new law, but essentially it reaches this agreement to regulate the teaching of the language itself without the Spanish State having the right to interfere with that regulation, whenever it explicitly recognizes that it is the competence of the educational administration, in this Basque case. And the recognition also by the Central Government of the right each Educational Administration has to regulate how school councils are managed. If these revalids were passed by school councils when they had decision-making capacity, we probably wouldn't get to this point. These school councils, according to the agreement, must no longer be only advisory, according to LOMCE, but, thanks to the agreement, they will have to have the decision-making ability to grant each of the administrations holding the skills in education. The German ANPA Federation also claims that greater participation of school councils in decision-making is recognized, because families – they argue – are an integral part of educational reality and our presence is as necessary and indispensable as that of the Administration, the teacher and the student. According to Article 27.7 of the Spanish Constitution, teachers, parents and, in their case, the student shall intervene in the control and management of all centres supported by public funds, in accordance with which the law so establishes. This constitutional mandate contains an active role of the school community to intervene in the management and control of centres, not a liability, consisting only of informed or consulted. This role is reflected in the figure of the School Council, but the changes that LOMCE introduces in its attributes would give it content, resulting in a light version that loses its neural functions and relegates the organ to a purely consultative plane. With the approval of LOMCE, school councils stop approving general projects, standards and programming to evaluate only; stop deciding on the administration of the student and only inform; stop approving the obtaining of additional resources and only inform; stop setting guidelines for collaboration with other centres, local administrations and others, and only inform. This law gives absolute power to the management teams, whose director, for more inri, is chosen by Education, and all decisions will depend solely and exclusively on a director chosen by finger and not on the educational community. With directors of taifas, invested in absolute powers, who will not have to report to an educational community to whom they represent, and hostages to whom they name them, the democratic functioning of the centres and their autonomy is clearly confined, relegating the School Council to meetings that ratify only the decisions of a director. In Ourense we have the sad – sad and dark – case of the director of the IES of Vilamarín, who acts as if a feudal lord was being treated; this is the result of LOMCE. With regard to the question of regulating the teaching of the language itself, he was told that the Royal Galega Academy agreed to file a complaint before the Constitutional Court against the recent judgement of the High Court of Justice on the previous appeal concerning the judgement of the High Court of Justice verb of Decree 79/2010 for plurilingualism in non-university public education in Galicia. The institution, the Royal Academy, indicates that the decree violates the fundamental right to equality of people who speak. Moreover, the text of the appeal points out that this decree perpetuates the situation – this is very strong! – of inferiority of the national language, deepening its prejudice against it by thereby excluding its use in matters of scientific content. These are the arguments on which the support resource submitted by the Royal Academy is based. First. The Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights enshrine the fundamental right to equality and to avoid discrimination under any personal circumstances. Second. The right to equality, enshrined in the Constitution, refers to material equality, which obliges the public authorities to promote it, removing obstacles to attain it. This should be materialized in positive actions to promote historically marginalized people or collectives. Third. In terms of language, these positive action measures are taken under the name of linguistic normalisation. Fourth. The mandate for standardisation is legally based on: (a)Article 3.3 of the Constitution: "The richness of Spain's different linguistic modalities is a cultural heritage which will be the subject of special respect and protection". (b) The Statute of Autonomy of Galicia provides in Article 5.3 a clear mandate to the public authorities, which will ensure the normal and official use of the two languages, and will enhance the use of Welsh in all areas of public, cultural and informational life, and will have the means necessary for their knowledge. (c)The European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, signed by the Kingdom of Spain at the highest level of commitment, is that, according to successive reports of the Committee of Experts, it has never been fully complied with. The commitments formally made by the Spanish State in the field of education are set out in Article 8 and require pre-school, primary, secondary, technical and professional education guaranteed in the Greek language. (d)The Language Standardisation Act, which insists on the so-called language standardization mandate and the concrete mandate in various areas, including education. (e)The Constitutional Court itself has established that both official languages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u233	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u234	...should have a presence in education sufficient to ensure the consequence of the goal of equality. And fifth, and I finish, the most serious of all, the most serious, is that the decree of multilingualism perpetuates the situation of inferiority of our language, abounding in prejudices against it, even excluding it from scientific matters. In Basquel Herria, where agreements are reached, the opposition and the government, they're making laws on an enviable country project. Take an example, please, from Galician Union. Take an example in the laws that are being passed in the Basque Country and in the rights that are being achieved to the citizens of Basque Herria. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u235	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u236	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, the position of the Block on the theme of LOMCE is clear and known. You will remember, Counsellor, that our group has asked from this same forum for the imposition of a resource of unconstitutionality against LOMCE, since it is understood that the educational reform of this law is not designed to meet the real needs of the Welsh educational community, but rather to achieve ideological objectives and partisans that nothing has to do with a improvement in the quality of education in general, nor of Galician in particular. LOMCE we define it as a law that goes against co-education, which is a privatising, centralist law, which subsidizes segregation centres, which eliminates democratic management of centres, which reduces the competences of the Greek Government and even cuts the rights of our language. You'll remember the counselor who denounced the lack of consensus in his elaboration and the frontal opposition of the education community in Galicia and throughout the state. It will recall that the Parliamentary Group of the BNG in December 2013 called for the imposition of this anti-constitutional remedy in this Parliament because LOMCE invades the powers of the Board in the field of promotion, promotion and teaching of its own language, Articles 5.3 and 27.20 of the Statute. Invade the powers of the Board in the field of regulation and administration of education, Article 31. Unfortunately, you and your parliamentary group, Counsellor, voted against defending their own powers, but there were other governments who defended their powers, presenting appeal, among them Basquedi. They fought in defence of their powers on the line that the BNG claimed in this Parliament for Galicia. They fought because LOMCE violates competences on the subject of evaluation, on the subject of scholarship management, on the subject of curricula, on the subject of conditions of access and admission of the student, on the subject of regulation of the language itself – I read what I said at that time –. We fight because it's a law that segregates students, makes an anti-democratic management of the centers, which segregates students according to academic performance, which causes problems in the admission of students, that is, it's invading our competences. The BNG denounced and regretted that the previous advisor – and the present seems to follow Mr. Wert's statements, instead of defending the Greek educational competences to ensure that all Greeks and Greeks can have a public education of quality, quality, secular, democratic and free of charge. The BNG reported that the Government of Greece shuts down and continues to remain silent before the State Government's educational recentralization that requires setting curricula on trunk materials, which designs the centralized revals in primary, in ESO and in Bachelorate to expel, to select and throw out the most disadvantaged social sectors out of the education system. The Greek Government has shut and silent, and on top it has become the banner of the application of LOMCE, which is a law that goes against the multi-national, multicultural and multilingual conformation of the Spanish State, which even suppresses the ignorance of the language itself. The Greek Government has held its peace before the LOMCE of a law which reduces Greek educational competences and prevents many times the teachings from adapting to reality, to our history and to our own culture. Today's BNG once again states that Galicia must aspire to be able to decide on an issue as important as that of education; to be able to regulate and organize our education system without interference.+ Today we are valuing an agreement from the Bilateral Committee of the Basque State on LOMCE. Today we find that the State explicitly recognises that autonomous transfers of education allow the Basque Government to define different aspects of LOMCE. Although the Counsellor says that nothing has been negotiated and that the agreements between the State and the Basque Country call them "between both sides," the fact is that the Basque Country and the State, for six months, have negotiated, and the agreement is: First of all, that the power of the Basque Government is recognized in defining the use of the Basque Government in educational centres, which we should also do with regard to Greek; and that of Spanishising Catalonia and Euskadi seems to have remained somewhat distant. Secondly, he recognizes that it is the Basque Country that regulates the relations between the management of the centres and the bodies of participation of the educational institutions, that school councils can have competences and can participate in them teachers and families and decide, and be nothing but consulting bodies. It also recognizes the competences of the Basque Country regarding the regulation and admission of students to FP, universities, etc. The Government of the State, ladies and gentlemen, upon reaching these agreements, recognises that LOMCE effectively invades the competences of the Basque Country, and by means of this agreement intends to prevent LOMCE from being declared anti-constitutional. The Basque Country and the State have stated that they still follow the discrepancies, but they have reached an agreement. The BNG, of course, regrets that the German Government did not resort to this law by anti-constitutional means, as did the Basque Country and how other communities that represent more than half of the state student, continue to denounce the Ministry, which continues to work with improvisation, precipitation and imposition. In the BNG, of course, today we continue to demand the Government of Greece, first of all, which defends Galicia's competences in education, with the tools it considers appropriate. Second, he defends the rights of our language in the educational system. Third, which defends the right to regulate and order our education system without interference, and ensuring the democratic functioning of it. Fourth, which defends the demands of the educational community of Galicia, which, although according to the Counsellor, seems that LOMCE has implemented itself – in words of it – "with quite normality and with zero improvisation", the Greek educational community has many claims that we have heard many times: it demands funds to improve the quality of education in Galicia; it claims funds for the implementation of this famous FP, which has not yet reached the centres; it claims that school textbooks and material are free; it even demands the validity of the books this year for the coming year; it calls for measures to prevent the growing lack of education in Galicia; it claims that it is used in the face of the implementation of the totally improvised LOMCE; it claims that it is not to be put in place the revalitions that will be implemented and that are intended to go to competitive, classist and segregation; these revalies will classify the centres in the first and second category. Today we also spoke here of the third-party assessment test, and the Counsellor I would ask you for some responsibility, because you came here to say that the primary teacher passes on to the child, passes on to the first, passes on to the second and passes on to the third and the children do not detect the difficulties. There's a continuous evaluation that performs all the teachers with effort and dedication. Every teacher knows how each student is, each of them, and what he knows is that there is no weight, there is no euro, to correct the deficiencies that are detected, and today the advisor comes here saying that this evidence is fundamental to detect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u237	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u238	So we're gonna wait for years and years. This is detected, the only thing that is needed are resources and respect for the teacher, for the educational community and to defend with pride and dignity the competences of the Greek education system, because in this way, Counsellor, I'm sure the entire education community in Greece would appreciate it, as the Basques are grateful for what their advisors are doing for their education in their country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u239	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Socialist Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u240	Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Counsellor. As you all know, just over a year ago, we have in force this famous law, the LOMCE; a law made on your day – as you know, Mr. Rodríguez – clearly behind the educational community, since it has not been told at any time by teachers, by families or by teaching unions, nor by teachers. A law that was only supported in the courts by the People's Party, by Rosa Díez and Alvarez Cascos, and which included the unanimous rejection of the rest of the parliamentary groups, both in Congress and in the Senate. A law that is – it has also been said here – even resorted to the Constitutional Court by five autonomous communities, by political parties and by several teaching unions. A law – I know you don't like Mr. Rodríguez telling him – will last exactly what the People's Party Government has to do. Interestingly, we learned months ago that the Government of Spain and the Government of Basquedi signed a bilateral agreement, in the summer of 2014, so that certain issues in LOMCE were not exactly applicable in the Basque Country. You call it what you want, but it gives you the feeling that it's done in exchange for something. One can guess what, surely in return for the Basque Government to withdraw that appeal from the Constitutional Court as well. You'll know why they signed this and why. Or also for the Basque Country to apply – certainly for the People's Party to do it – differently – as they have just said here – an organic law. The Socialist Group believes that the issues agreed with Euskadi were not just minor issues, because they affected subjects that were certainly very relevant and were published in the official bulletins of the Basque Country and also in the Official Gazette of the State, which is why we are presenting in full summer, just after summer, in the German Parliament, similar initiatives that we are discussing here in Parliament today. At that time the Socialist Group understood, and today too, that the Government of Basque did nothing but defend the interests of its citizens, but we also understood – with much more difficulty, that is yes, Mr. Rodríguez – that the Government of Galicia had not done anything similar to what the Basque Government had done. What are we really talking about, gentlemen? So we're talking about nothing but two very relevant issues that the Basque Government has managed to shield by negotiating with Rajoy and Wert – I insist they'll know in return for that – without the Greek Government having the slightest interest in doing something similar here in Galicia. What did the Basques shield in that negotiation with the Government of Spain, Mr. Rodríguez? For they shielded the relevant role of school councils; that relevant role that LOMCE has taken in order to remove a pen to convert them into mere florists in the service of highly controlled and conditioned directions. I've already said here – although they didn't really like this word either – that it would allow us to have some manned directors. I know you don't like the word of the Counsellor, but in some way it was intended, emptying out school councils, taking away their powers, having a group of very obedient directors and very close to the shift regime. And they also shielded the role of the Basque Country in the Basque education system. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, two themes of enormous silence which the Basque Government has resolved with the necessary complicity of the Government of Spain, and also with the complicit silence of the People's Party here in Galicia. We therefore fully understand the reasons, Mr. Vázquez, for his interpellation today. As we also understand, perfectly, the discomfort of the education community in Galicia with the beginning of the revals emanating from LOMCE. I also know, Mr. Rodríguez, that you don't like the word revalid. You put the name you want: revalid, external control, try – let's say – a little atypical, whatever you want to call it, but people understand very well what a revalid is because many of us already know what this was on their day, so it's a topic that is well identified in the educational community. A revival that will take place at different times in the educational stage, now it's primary 3rd, later it'll play ESO 4th and Bacharelato's 2nd, in order to turn the educational system into a real career of obstacles from very early ages. In this absurd race of obstacles, the Government of Galicia has just announced a few days ago that will take place here, in the coming weeks, the revival of primary 3th, in which more than 22,000 children and children from Galicia are expected to participate. A non-educational test and its results will only serve to encourage competition between centres and to piss off thousands of families who are seriously considering not sending their children and children to Galician schools on that day. A totally absurd and useless revalide that will have to pass those 22,000 8-year-old children. That's also a very relevant subject, Mr. Rodríguez. We're talking about 8-year-olds, 3-year-olds, putting them under that totally absurd pressure without need. You used to say, and I heard it very carefully, that this is a subject to improve the education system. All right, you soon understand that nowadays centers have no mechanisms to be able to carry out checks, that what the centers do, that what teachers do is, I don't know... I will frame. When we're doing evaluation in the centers, what are we doing? We're doing evaluations to take action later, or why do you think it's the ongoing evaluations in the centers? Teachers are also upset because, somehow, if they're also missing out on it, they don't seem to trust them. To do that control and to improve what needs to be improved, you have to do an external test, an external test that is done right now by means of the center itself, but we'll see in the future how it is done, you'll see in your day how it is done. And I insist, we're talking about 8-year-olds and children. We think what we've just exposed is more than enough to explain the position of the Socialist Group today. Exactly the same, by the way, that expressed the past Monday our highest responsible in Galicia, Mr. Besteiro, when in the media he also stated what he thought about this proof of his own revival. We will certainly have many occasions in the coming weeks to continue talking about this unfortunate situation put in place by the People's Party. By the way, Counsellor, you say that in the centers – and it was also said here today – there will be many families, probably thousands of families, because the parent and mother groups are pressing in that direction, that that day they will not send the children to the centers. What are you going to do with those families? Are you going to punish us? Are we going to call the order? What's going to happen? If they don't go to class that day, what happens? They'll have a flaw like any day and nothing else. I understand that it will be so, and I speak to you as director of a center. Because I don't see, as director of a center, that more can be done to a child who doesn't go to class that day. He just needs it, and that's it. We will – I insist – have many opportunities to talk about this issue in this Parliament surely in the next few months, and I do not want to finish my speech today without denouncing again, Counsellor, that seven months after implementing in Galicia the basic FP, one of those news that emanates from LOMCE – and I also told you on the other day in a parliamentary question – the Greek educational centres remain unreceived today – and I insist today – because I checked it before speaking here today in this Parliament – a single euro to put in place the basic FP in Galicia. You talk a lot about basic FP, you talk a lot about that topic that's new, but today the fact is that not a single euro has come to the centers to implement it in normal conditions. I'm not going to say that no kind of teaching equipment has arrived either. That it didn't come, no matter how much you tell me that I don't know which center of the Junqueira, or somewhere else in the province of Lugo, if it did, I don't know what workshop work. I don't care. Today, the Greek educational centres have implemented the basic FP for thousands of students in Galicia without receiving a single euro to finance this new form of education. I understand, Counselor, that things can do much better, and in this particular case I think you're doing yourself in a very foolish and very improvised way. Making new laws, doing them alone and doing them at zero cost, is a real frivolity. And I want to finish my speech today by reminding myself of a group of mothers and parents who had spent a month in the Town Hall of Kings tomorrow. Counsellor, I know it's a subject that doesn't have to do with this subject that Mr Vázquez raised today, but I ask you again today, in parliamentary headquarters, that we have a lot of families that tomorrow fulfill a month closed in that Council of Kings. They've been asking for justice, they've been asking for a legal schedule, a fair time for their children and their children. I understand you have them there, suffering this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u241	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u242	...I don't think it's reasonable. So I ask you again, at parliamentary headquarters, that you, who are a sensible person, look for ways to solve this issue, because you can't have the families there closed and unsolved. And by the way, I don't like you trying to deal with families with each other either, to see if we divide the families we get the target we want. Therefore, we understand, Mr. Vázquez, your plea, your concern about this matter. And the Socialist Group is sure that in the coming weeks we will also have the opportunity to bring this very debate to this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u243	Thank you. People's Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. Timeliness, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Iglesias, the Basque Country, for the time being, is something untouchable for the purposes of the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, implanting LOMCE, although ambitious, in French territory, is not currently proposed. It'll all be gone, but not yet. In any case, you said "recover the enviable position of the Basque Country." With regard to what, in particular? About Galicia? But the data is wonderful. If you're talking about implementation, both in school and in society, of the Basque compared to the Greek, let's go!, if that's what they mean, there's really no way to get it. How many understand the language of their Autonomous Community in the Basque Country? Well, 61%. Compared to 95.9%, it's pretty good. How many understand or speak the language? 56%. Well, compared to 97.1% is also pretty good, it's enviable; but enviable to us, they would like it! How many people use Spanish as a unique language in Galicia? 49%. How much in the Basque Country? 72%. You can make the comparison wherever you want. 14% of Basque citizens use Basque as their own language. In Galicia, that's 50.9%, so I don't know where it's enviable. Of course, we are pleased that in our community the language has greater penetration than any other language of any autonomous Spanish community. The Greek leading, as it corresponds to a community committed to its language, its promotion and its use in relation to its citizens, no less or less. [[Applause]] Today an initiative has been used here as an excuse to speak of divine and human nature. But the councilman explained it meridically well. These things are traded at the negotiating tables, which are exactly for that, to negotiate. According to the Royal Academy dictionary, "dispute the conditions under which a matter will take place." Some preferred to get up, go home empty-handed. Galicia, responsibly, through its advisers who had the responsibility to negotiate these issues, sat at the tables and managed to support, which had been included, in the later processing of LOMCE, basic issues for the Greek education system. That's the responsibility of the rulers in the face of the irresponsibility of those who returned home empty-handed; that's yes, politically assuming that they stood up from a table. But it's also true, the only thing they've been able to do with the signing of this bilateral agreement is the negotiating capacity, the willingness to negotiate a government of the state that made it clear that, still outside the negotiating tables, it's capable of reaching agreements with the rest of the autonomous communities that are willing to arrive. And this is exactly what happened with the bilateral agreement signed with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Mr President, the reality of this debate is very clear, because the opposition did not vary the messages since it began to discuss in deep and sufficient debates in this House, both in the Commission and in plenary, the application and implementation of LOMCE, as well as later in its development. And we'll keep arguing. But you never listen or pay attention to the data and the facts raised from the other side, which is the group that defends, the group that gives support, to the Government of Galicia. Neither to any of the senior councillors' appearances, to know what were the issues that were discussed and what were achieved. Anyway, for you, it's the same, positions don't change. You've played a role of riddles that they miss more every day. Bad fortune tellers, not to make fun of the famous joke. But bad guessers because they didn't give one. And besides not giving one, they didn't do that role of riddles when other laws that worked much worse than this, that gave catastrophic results to our educators. In that case, you didn't do any guesses, you didn't predict anything, and you weren't belligerent. Absolute silence with other laws! However, with this, if you're giving results, that every day and year after year shows in all independent analyses that you're giving a good result, here you have to raise a boycott or an insubmission to the application of an organic law. It looks like a lie, it looks like the top of the hives – as we said as children – that in a legislative chamber we're discussing whether or not a law applies. Of course, that shows – I would say another word – very little to talk about what democracy is. In no House, Mr. Garcia, of democratic tradition, in none – you want, England, of fundamental tradition –. It would be unthinkable for Members of either side to sit on the right and on the left of that Parliament to be able to stand against the application of any law, that would be intolerable! [[Murmurs.]] You're proposing an insubmission. I planted it, they're on their right. But they will also be portrayed concretely, then, as enemies of a proof that at no cost is an evaluator, a proof that at no time will be included in the student's school curriculum, which at no time will mean no classification, no barrier or ranking. It was perfectly clear and explained. All you're going to provide is data, relevant data, very relevant ladies, for something you weren't able to achieve, which was the non-existence of unbearable numbers of failure and early school dropout. That's the real question! You didn't know because you didn't check the data. It's just that let go of the schools. And I don't know any members of the educational community who hadn't been surprised, at least, that all of us had to run here without any thesis to prove whether it was right or wrong. So we found ourselves later, at the end of the cycle, students who left and failed – that between 25 and 38 years of age today we have more than one million of them – that they would neither have any accredited professional qualifications, nor have any pedagogical or school qualifications, and thanks to LOMCE and the implementation of the basic FP they will be able to believe with a title. That's the reality we have on the table. But you want to take over. Before they knew the draft, they wanted to derogate everything and present it to the Constitutional Court. They have the right to do so, but they don't forget about one thing, this evidence, which is a complementary test to the continuing evaluation of schools, represents nothing of what you said here. It's just another element that will allow us to judge what the measures of attention to the diversity that can be applied and what the support measures are, the support programmes, which can be applied individually, to those people who need them, in their own time and in their own time, and not later, when perhaps it's already late. And it's also going to allow families to know that report at first hand and that they can also participate in the design of strategies to improve their son or daughter. That's what you commit to LOMCE, which for nothing, Mr. Pombo, for nothing is what you said here. Defends as a vehicle language, in exactly the same conditions, the English and the Spanish. The compulsory trunk matter, on which the State is available, represents 50%; and the specifics and those of free design by the autonomous community and the schools will represent at least 50% more, Mr Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u245	It'll be over, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u246	We're talking about a law that's going to favor the improvement of results, that's going to be favourable to early non-emption and school failure. And, Mr. Vázquez, allow me to tell you, you have spoken perversely and maliciously, follower and submissively. That's exactly what you could apply to the law that brought those educational rights that you claimed for the autonomous community. But from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the Government we demand those educational rights for our educators, so they are ready to face society as it is. And for nothing, gentlemen, that's all you said. Don't listen to me. Don't listen to me. And it'll also be used to detect the system's evasive effects, which we don't want to happen to what happened to the previous one, which gave bad results. Fortunately, the independent bodies that evaluate our system are saying otherwise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u248	...that we improve year after year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u250	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u251	Mr. Vázquez Díaz's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u252	Mr. Farinas, the law allowed Jews to be persecuted in Nazi Germany; the law allowed African Americans to be segregated in a democracy, in American democracy; the Frankish law allowed homosexuals to be persecuted. Civil disobedience in the face of unjust laws is not only allowed in many constitutions, but it is a duty of every citizen to do so. We call for the disobedience of citizenship against laws that violate its fundamental rights, and education is a fundamental right of citizenship that is seriously violated by LOMCE. So we asked a very specific question -- this is an interpellation. Our proposal will be very clear and round, in the motion of the next plenary session, calling for the fulminant withdrawal of the revalides. The question was whether the Greek Government was willing to request the establishment of a bilateral cooperation commission – which would be more revolutionary!, would it not? – between the State Administration and the Greek Administration to value the specificities of the Greek education system? I suppose our country will have some specificity in education. I guess – I don't know – we have a dispersed population – more than 300 municipalities –, a language and a culture of our own; we have a considerable digital divide; we have certain and limited educational resources; we have a specific social, demographic and geographic reality. I don't know, you might want to sit with the central government and discuss some things, even nuances, but there's no desire to do so. You have nothing to ask, nothing to demand, Counselor, and it doesn't seem to be too messy of our proposal. Anyway, what we can't afford is that you lie, and that you lie, least of all, from the rostrum. I will read paragraph 90 of the LOMCE, if it is not clear: "The results of the evaluations carried out by educational administrations will be brought to the attention of the educational community by means of common indicators for all teaching centres" – refer to your reval, Mr Rodríguez. "The Government will lay the foundations for employment and public access to the results of the evaluation of the centres. The Ministry will publish the results of Spanish centres and make information known through the state education indicators system." Standardisation, comparison and classification, I said it clearly; paragraph 90 of the LOMCE. Therefore, you must not lie and deceive citizenship. You have the obligation, as Education Counsellor, to say what they will do when a family legitimately decides not to subject their children to resuscitism. What are they gonna do to them? You have to explain to the teachers how to act when this happens, it's your duty to be as much as possible responsible for the Education Council. But it's not just AGE who's saying that children don't have to do this test, say the Confapa, the associations of mothers and parents; say it to the workers' representatives, the unions. And you mind seriously, and you degrade the teaching role, when you talk about evaluation. You can't say that families who freely decide not to revamp their children will lack relevant information about their children's performance. But do you think it's a quarterly note-book that teachers give to families? Do you think that's a bureaucratic role, that doesn't say anything? There are quantitative, qualitative, numerical and written results from teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u253	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u254	Do you think you're doing a teacher with the individualized interviews you do with your families, where they personally analyze the difficulties of your children? What do you think teachers do when they do their daily assessments, their exams? Do you think the children and the children of Greece take a few tests? Do you think it's been a while, what do you need more? You say the law requires, but the important question is that you have to clarify and you have to tell families that you have absolute freedom to do so. The test is not included in the annual general programming, it is not included in the educational project of the centre, it is not included in the curriculum project of the centers - it cannot be. So you'll be the ones who have legal problems when a father goes to a center and tells the address: show me the annual general programming page where it's contemplated the revalid that happened to my son without my consent. That's what parents will tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u255	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u256	...and you will have no answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u257	Thank you very much. You have the floor, to close the debate, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u258	I, first of all, would like to tell Mr. Pombo, Mr. Docasar and Mr. Vázquez not to put into my mouth words that I did not say and that you interpret. You tell them, but don't put it in my mouth. I'm saying – and I repeat – that the evaluating of primary 3rd is a general evidence that will strengthen the learning process and strengthen the continuous evaluation. Not at all did I say those exabrusions that you say. If they want to say it, tell them, but don't put it in my mouth. Here we are seeing political positions on LOMCE. By the way, LOMCE is a democratic law, Mr Vázquez. The comparisons you made here are hateful. And I also see this debate with a certain perplexity. First of all, because of the enormous dismemberment of this camera. You said that the Galician Union should claim to LOMCE a treatment differentiated from dispersion and language; you did. You did, and you voted you didn't. You've done so, and you've voted, in a PNL defended by me, not that the LOMCE had taken account of population dispersal. Enough dememorial, Mr. Vázquez! I also see too much...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u259	Mr. Ron!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u260	...that it would take a little more shame. I'll tell you a question. Look, this test is very similar to the evidence that it is already being done, with total normality, in 4th, the test of evaluation and diagnosis; a test – let's say – socialist. It's done with total normality, and what you're criticizing now hasn't been criticized before. And I'm going to tell you that there are two fundamental coincidences and two differences. What are the two matches? First match. Don't influence anything on the student's academic note. It doesn't affect the 4th or the 3rd. Second match. The same competences are evaluated: linguistic and mathematical communication; exactly the same. Before there was no problem, now if there's a big problem. The two differences that exist. The first difference: a course is coming together. Why does a course come forward? In order to be able to react first if they can detect, and detect, educational or formative weaknesses of the student. Move forward one year to react earlier. Second difference: you will provide families with an individualized report for families to have specific and accurate information about the educational evolution of their children. They're the two differences and the two matches. I don't know, I'm wondering why you've never been called the boycott at the 4th evaluation. I think you're moving your LOMCE political position to the simple and normal development of LOMCE. [[Applause]] Look, we clearly want to send a message of tranquility to parents, tutors, directors, teachers, the entire educational community. Why? Because the test is very similar to what is being done with total normality. The centers are already informed and the information is being reinforced. These days there were meetings with the inspectors to transfer information to families through the centers. The difference – as I have already said – within the continuity is that individual results are given per student and that information between tutors and families will be strengthened. I want to make it very clear, so that there is no confusion and you do not continue to tell lies to citizenship – which is very clear – that there will be no rankings in the centers, nor will there be any discrimination against the student, what will there be for the families is private information for these families and for the centers. We're talking about detecting weaknesses so that centers, through other programs and other plans, can improve these weaknesses, because we see this as an opportunity to improve the system. I ask them a question: what's wrong? I'd like you to say one day that there's a negative thing about families having more information about their children's learning needs so they can demand improvements and put in place plans to correct the weaknesses that we can detect. I'd like you to tell me there's a negative on that. What we have to be, ladies and gentlemen, is responsible. If we have to be responsible and each one must own his words. And we'll see how you can tell a family, especially those families that have children with special educational needs or that they have children who go wrong in the learning process, that they don't evaluate themselves or that they don't strengthen the continued evaluation. Because it's about those families and about those kids who are going to act primarily.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u261	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u262	And I want to finish, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u263	No, it's over. It's over, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u264	...making a call to responsibility, and, above all, to reflect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u265	It's over, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u266	...and they don't encourage campaigns against their children's education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u267	Counselor, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u269	And Mr. Ron... We suspended the session until tonight at 6:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u270	Let's resume the session with the next interpellation. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the results of the wind competition promoted in 2010 in relation to the construction of wind farms and industrial investments committed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u271	To formulate the petition you have the word don Abel Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u272	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. I am sorry that Mr Castineira is not here, because yesterday, in a parliamentary initiative on industrial soil, he was very concerned about whether the Vigo Members in this Parliament, the PSOE, were going to be in some fishing on a roundabout. It was for him to be transferred his companions who were not, we're not going to be on any fishing in any roundabout. And, of course, we've never been or going to be on any yacht with a drug dealer in the creek. I think it's important that they move it. Yes, yes, of course. [[Applause]] It's important for them to transfer it, because, as I'm trying here to not campaign the municipalities, because I like that they don't do it as well as candidates from the municipalities who seem to have some important domestic issues. George Orwell said in his 1984 work that often, when advertising and propaganda are overwhelming, seeing what we have in front of our nose requires a constant struggle. And that's exactly what happens in connection with this interpellation presented by the Socialist Group. Because, without any doubt, we are talking about a new – or not so new – because Mr. Feijóo has been ruling in this autonomous community for six years and peaking – of a new virtual reality. The truth is, seeing what happened in Castela-León, we already know quite well how the process of extension of renewable wind energies began in the autonomous community at the time of the rule of Mr. Fraga Iribarne: absolute discretion, absence of rules, favors, former general directors of the past industry... that was indeed a rotating door, but it was a rotating door not to the outside, but within the building of the Union. They went straight from the general direction to the wind business but without leaving the general direction. Anyway, what am I going to talk about, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you don't know? –for the media, I mean, God is free to insinuate anything else. Indeed, the Government chaired by Emilio Pérez Touriño in 2005 initiates a process that will soon organize this reassignment of productive factors. And indeed, there was a wind competition, in which I would not deny – I was already a Member at that time – that there were differences in the Government. It is also true that at no time did no advisor to the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño shut himself on a flat in Ourense to threaten President Touriño, as had happened to Mr. Fraga who seemed to have an absolute, absolutely cohesioned government. [[Applause]] So I hope the Counsellor and I hope, above all, that the voices of the People's Party will not come here to tell me what happened in the bipartisan government, because I lived it live live and I know it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah, that's not gonna be it, but I know exactly what happened since 2009. It happened that strictly ideologically... [[Murmurs.]] It's clear that you have to feel satisfied with human happiness in some case. I understand that permanent smile is part of the human condition, and it's okay, it's even emotional. He said that this ideological principle of allergy to public participation in economic performance led, without any convincing explanation and, by the way, no explanation given in the judicial judgments, to the annulment of that competition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Secrets are what they have, is what they have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u273	Mr. Garcia, I don't think you need Mr. Losada's help for anything. [[Murmurs.]] Do me a favor, I've stopped her time, and keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u274	I am grateful for the support of all Members, including those who have always smiled. He said there's a new competition, the wind plan, industry... I think we here in the previous legislation remember it, practically a "Pemex bis"; textually, "This is going to be the industrial plan of the future industry in Galicia" -- I quote it textually, at least, I don't have it here, but it was something like that." Of course, there were 6 billion euros and 14,000 jobs. That was an overwhelming propaganda. He told it by active, passive and absolutely circumflex, on every possible side. After that, before Mr. Rajoy had arrived at the Government of Spain, the socialists had already said that any delay would have a cost of opportunity. Because the conditions of funding in that economic crisis, which also the spokespersons of the People's Party say here that the two-party government did not recognize... I would like to remind you again that the first extraordinary measures to support funding are a January 2008 board. I still had to hear today, I think it was Mr. Fariñas, again that we were not aware of this crisis. I insist that it be possible to fix an idea that is very simple, alphanumeric: February 2008, exceptional financing measures in the face of the difficulties of financing Greek companies. I'm sure the Counsellor, who will know the history of the Igape, who is currently presiding, can ratify this statement that I'm saying here. We said that with these difficulties of financing any delay was a danger to the Welsh renewables. We were called almost "collectivists of East Germany", a sort of Walter Ulbright but passed on in this case by Vigo – we think by Alegondo –. Of course, these objective funding difficulties have resulted, which were there. But most of all, another fact happens. And the other thing is that when Mr. Rajoy arrives to the Government, he goes ahead with a political decision clearly put forward by the People's Party, which is directly blocking the development of renewables because the economic interests of the large Spanish energy companies go on the other hand, they go on to pay basically the production of those systems that are already amortized and therefore have an absolutely low cost. This is undoubtedly a political option, of which they say to rule for all. Of course they don't all rule. And today, without going further, Wednesday, May 6th – I still have the vice to read the papers and cut the pages; cutting the pages seems to be a vice recognized in this Parliament: "The big funds invest 5 billion in the energy sector." It's the big speculative funds, which are exactly buying the balance price of those photovoltaic and wind installations that undoubtedly, like any new technology, without public support, are not yet financially viable. And the big picture here is the stage, this is the way. Well, Counsellor, from here on you already enter the scene, you are appointed Counsellor in Mr. Feijóo's second government, and continuously, both in full and in commission, you tell us that 83% I think I remember, or 87%, of industrial plans and wind developments continue ahead. They also tell us a number of industrial investments. The truth is that they have a certain objective writing difficulty, because everything they tell us by oral tradition – which is very good, but, as you know, when only civilizations are based on oral tradition becomes much more vulnerable – we ask for it by article 9, in writing, and there is no way. I don't know if the other opposition groups are luckier, for some information exchanged. I don't think it is, either; I mean, it's not discrimination against the Socialist Group, which reassures me. So the only thing we want, Counselor, beyond telling us here, is that it gives us in writing, that it gives us in writing fundamentally – I insist on industrial plans, because the mills are obviously not. It's true that the entire administrative construction procedure is going very early, probably as long as the piers and the quotes are stored in some company – we don't know what it is either – soon to settle down. But the truth is, since Mr Feijóo ruled and presented the 2010 Wind Re-Jurde Plan, there has not been a single wind megawatt from this plan. What's the matter, Counselor? How sure you know. It happens that the scenario at European level changes very rapidly, and it happens that both the energy evacuation mechanisms, as well as the energy evacuation networks themselves, and the need to meet the targets of Europe 20-20-20, cause the Government of Spain to have to correct to some extent that furious and direct attack on renewable energies. And indeed, the 2015-2020 Power Transport Plan is presented and, oh, surprise!, at least one third of these...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u275	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u276	I'm going to finish, Madam President. At least in a third of those megawatts that are going to be installed almost 100% we have a problem, from 66% to 87%, i.e. 23% of the wind megawatts that I would love, Mr. Counsellor, that you told us here where to evacuate them, a rather simple question. Because –I insist on the 2015-2020 Power Transport Plan does not consider it. You don't think so, because Mr. Christmas and the Ministry themselves know perfectly well that they won't be done, even if you persist in the wrong with this matter. But there's still another question. There is an energy planning horizon 2020, which is the result of the pressure of the European Union, and if the pressure must be great that even Mr Cañete, a paradigm of ecologists, said it was necessary to boost a little of the renewables in Spain. Of course, after a real stopover, because obviously something had to be done in front of the Europeans. I'll take the fuck off if I need to, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u277	Mr. Losada, on second shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u278	All right. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u279	Thank you. The Economic Counsellor, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u280	Madam President. Mr Losada, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is, I come here this afternoon logically talking about the wind competition results, as proposed by the interpellation. And what I would first ask the spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mr Losada, is that we focus the debate. I think it doesn't contribute anything, Mr. Losada, to come here talking about insinuations, to talk about certain issues. I don't know if you're talking to your group, but I think we came here talking to the Greeks. And, therefore, I believe, Your Honor, that if you have anything to say, that it takes place with names and surnames. If you think you have political content, leave you in this House; and if you think you have criminal content, you have the judges to refer the issues you consider appropriate. [[Applause]] In any case, Your Honor, I'm going to try to focus on the debate, I'm going to try to focus on the content of the inquiry. I didn't mean to talk about the past, honestly. But if you invite me to talk about the past, I'm just going to clarify to you with all the cordiality, with all the tranquility, that your two-party government approved two illegal declared wind competitions, and a third that had to be cancelled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the reality. And I'll remember him. The resolution of the 2007 singular wind farms of 300 megawatts was annulled by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The 2006 wind competition by 2,325 megawatts was annulled, as you well know, by Law 8/2009, which was validated by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. And the 2006 competition for wind farms and business parks by 565 megawatts was a declaration against the right. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that your balance from the Bipartisan's point of view does not support your initial intervention. In any case, I think we should focus on the content of the inquiry. And I regret the lack of coherence, in this case, of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, there are two ways of doing politics: with gestures or facts. In both cases, the demagogy shown by the Socialist Party understands that it is maximum. Because, look, in the gesture policy you understood that giving light bulbs or removing the tie was enough to achieve energy efficiency. I'm not going into gesture policy. What seems to me to be the most serious thing is the Socialist Party's policy of fact in energy. Because you, Your Honor, have promoted a disorderly growth of energy, with a clear bet for the least efficient, which has left... [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u281	Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order, and please, you have no word. Please do it! Do the favor, you'll have to answer the counselor. [[Murmurs.]] Well, please... [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] I think it's very nice. Continue, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u282	I reiterate that the Socialist Party's policy of fact has been to promote a disorderly growth of energy, with a clear bet on the less efficient sources, which has left the situation of this country economically unsustainable. I don't know if you, the Socialist Party, are proud of the energy model that almost brings us to bankruptcy. I simply remind you – and I think it is quite significant – that if the Government of the People's Party in Madrid did not take action, every year, Your Honor, every year, we would have to assume a deficit of EUR 10.500 million. That's the reality. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the current energy policy logically responds... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u283	Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u284	...to that disorderly growth, which has promoted an accumulated rise of 70% in the bill of light and, as you know, has also reached an electric power ten times higher than the demand has increased. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, an energy policy that needed an answer and a reality. I'm simply, since he made little reference to the energy policy of this government, in which he did, I'm going to transfer to him the policy that we're developing. It's a very simple policy, Mr. Losada, based on realism. A realism to ensure that wind farms can be processed, a realism to allow wind farms that are not profitable to pass through to those who are, and a realism to also make available to our sector that has all the options possible so that we can effectively recover leadership in Galicia. Ultimately, our strength, Your Honor, is efficiency and progress in processing. And as you know, this government actually to boost the development of renewable energy, and particularly wind energy, promotes a auction to assign a specific remuneration to 500 megawatts, which is a way to revitalize the wind sector in Spain. And our parks will actually have an opportunity to demonstrate that, thanks to their efficiency, and thanks to the fact that it has actually been done and is advanced in its processing, they can actually have an opportunity to opt for that additional remuneration. They'll be the new, more efficient wind farms, and they'll be those that have the ability to refuel those who have that opportunity to opt for that pay. In short, Your Honor, we, from the People's Party, are developing an wind policy, indeed, to adapt to a reality, which is a reality that necessarily had to correct that disordered policy. I remind you: EUR 10.500 million was the deficit commitment that the People's Party inherited. That deficit had to be corrected. In 2014 we will close with a small surplus within what is the energy balance; so we corrected that deviation of 10,500 million euros a year, which was the commitment and inheritance that you left. And from there, as I told you, indeed, we have a commitment to make our parks available so that they can be built, which is actually the goal. And we're doing it in a very simple way. I would like to, Mr. Losada, to have told me which principles you are acting in this government you do not agree with. Look, we're working to equip our promoters with a stable legal framework – tell me if you don't agree – to simplify and reduce the costs of running parks, speed up administrative processing and stimulate technological improvement. I don't know if at any of these four principles you disagree. And I would also like to know if they're not in accordance with the application of the wind cannon, a wind cannon that, thanks to this government, is allowing the Greeks to benefit from an income of about 120 million euros from the payment of the wind cannon by the environmental impact of the wind farms. I would therefore like to know what these principles you do not agree with, except that you all wanted it to be that this country had to assume year after year these 10,500 million euros of energy deficit that you have left committed, Mr. Losada, committed. In any case, this government is acting, and we are acting with concrete measures: that Law 8/2009, which has actually allowed the development of this new competition; that we have introduced a series of improvements to reduce 92,5 % of the amount of heritage transmissions; that we are actually making it possible to renounce megawatts for the sake of profitability or economic viability; that we are developing a repo decree to actually facilitate all administrative processing of parks that want to repo; and, as you know, we also initiate the processing of the sectoral plan, which aims to streamline and update Galicia's best wind. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this government has authorized the installation of 44 wind farms, with a total power of 639.40 megawatts. This assumes that all these parks are already ready to have an advanced administrative process to opt for that specific auction salary that the Government makes available to revitalize the wind sector. So the objective of this government is very simple: adapting to reality, a reality marked by the demands, logically, of correcting the tariff deficit. And right now, thanks to the administrative processing we're pushing, and thanks to our most efficient parks, our sector has the option of opting for this 500 megawatt auction, which we hope will actually guarantee the launch of wind farms in Galicia, which is our only target derived from the wind sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u285	Thank you, Counselor. Intervention of the groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u286	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. I, after listening to the counsellor, and after reviewing the information that the Board gave in the summer of 2010 about what would assume the new wind competition, and knowing that we are in the face of a serious and solvent government, honest and efficient, which, like no one, has anticipated the effects of the crisis, can ensure that we are champions of wind energy, and we are collecting R & D+i investment receipts that our pre-clarant president Feijó knew how to impose on the adjudicatory companies of the contest. And the thing wasn't easy for Nuñez Feijóo. A year earlier, in August 2009, the beloved leader – and I mean not my mayor, Mr. Caballero, but the beloved leader of the People's Party, who cares for us and governs – had to cancel the gossip that the Bipartite had made to, according to the words of the Feijóo himself, prevent public participation in the wind farms. The whole audience is the main concern of our president, and public participation in wind farms, as we all know, is the greatest barbarity of the damned inheritance of the Bipartite. And transparency was total, on August 5, 2009, they had to go around the press and explain that the decision to revoke the invitation to tender was provisionally awarded 2,300 megawatts because, according to legal reports, the process had serious legal marks. That is why – the then economic and industry advisor pointed out – would be a serious irregularity to maintain the previous process, before which the Greek Government tries to grant legal security to the adjudication of megawatts. Thanks to the clarity, courage, rigor and efficiency of Núñez Feijóo and his government, in just one year, in August 2010, he was ready to make the wind competition the worst of Galicia's development and fix the future for us all. In view of the 2,000 jobs created by the Bipartite wind competition, the Feijóo Union was able to announce 12,000 jobs in wind, 5,635 in agriculture, livestock and fisheries, 5,383 in services, 4,180 in other industries, 2,475 in construction and 1,580 in R & D+i. In innovation, in the face of the bottlenecks of the Bipartite with Ortega, Gadis, Feiraco, singular parks..., the 2010 innovative proposals dominate energy-related initiatives, with 7,428 million investments – productions of air carriers, biogas plants, biofuels, electroliners, component factories... The plans associated with the 2010 wind plan promote industrial activities, such as recycling, industrial decontamination, manufacture of leds or improvements in engine processes, textiles and ICT. There are also associated plans related to services, improving media, building debuggers or expanding business parks. And even in the primary sector, developing rural and forestry; and even in construction, even obtaining official shelters in exchange for megawatts. All this we owe to Feijóo, who also released Galicia from disastrous public interventionism. And against the 14.5% participation of the Union in the wind farms, let the private initiative take place freely to allow markets to do what they know best to do, which is to guarantee prosperity and solve the problems of the common people. Clarividity, courage and rigour are the great virtues of Feijóo, which have made possible the miracle, without forgetting the honesty and cleanliness that demands anyone who wants to approach him, and the exemplaryness that radiates to the entire autonomous administration and to the whole of society. Thanks to the People's Party and the brave, capable, efficient and honored government, we are champions of wind energy and we are collecting R & D revenue. I'm afraid I'm betting that the electric battery that just introduced itself to the United States, TESLA Powerwal, which I think will allow you to cut the cables of the power supply and break with the oligopolie, is a consequence of the commitment and commitment of Núñez Feijóo to the R & D+I. It should be called the Feijóo Nuñez pillar, but I know that our president's proverbial modesty will keep it secret for a long time. Even though the evil of the Bipartite takes advantage of our modesty, our president and his government, I am sure that the Union will give the second turn answers to the insidious questions of the interpellation, without blackmailing him into the achievements of the 2010 Wind Plan. How beautiful it would be for things to be as they tell us the propaganda of the People's Party! It would be good for everything and not only for the [...], like, for example, Mr Tellado, who today gave us a true lesson of [...]. [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] But no, neither jobs nor legality nor R & D+i nor rags, propaganda, propaganda, propaganda and submission to Natural Gas. The serious bill of legality and the serious legal insecurity of the Bipartite wind competition were a lie. I'm not saying it, the courts said it. Faced with the commitments of complementary projects and secured by the adjudicators of wind competitions with leases, now we have justified investments made by Natural Gas in the way of certification of old transformers like new ones – they know what I'm talking about –. Against 14,5 % of Joina's participation in wind production, now all for private benefit. Faced with the division between a high number of promoters, including forms of social economy, such as cooperatives, now all for Natural Gas through Fenosa Wind All else is propaganda, propaganda and propaganda. The result is another very different from that promised to any bomb to hide the cacicide to cancel the Bipartite wind competition. The Greek wind sector occupied a position of privilege in the state, reference in generated energy and installed power. The Greek wind sector was the one that most contributed to the electricity system from 2006 to 2010, according to the data from the electricity grid. Only Castile-The Mancha, with more installed power, could then compete with the German wind. As time passed, the Greek wind sector stagnated while Castile-Leon and Andalusia experienced unprecedented growth. The government's friendly handkerchiefs in Madrid with the elimination of renewables in 2012 did nothing but increase the paralysis of the wind sector in Galicia. But despite Minister Soria and his reform to favor the scam of the tariff deficit, of what has already been discussed here, there is a huge difference between the evolution of the wind sector in Galicia and the other communities. The difference marks the paralysis of the wind competition set in motion by the government of Nuñez Feizóo nothing more to reach the Union. An wind competition, 2010 as well as the policies of the Spanish Government, is against the Greek entrepreneurs and is tailored to the interests of the electric oligopolie; in particular the interests of Natural-Fenosa Gas. The result was that the action of the Board, together with that of Mr. Soria's ministry, paralyzed the wind sector in Galicia. I hit the coup, since the Bipartite contest was cancelled, the suspension of premiums to renewables slowed down its development. It all responds to the same, to your way of doing what you call, illegitimately, political. Because politics is a very noble activity that has nothing to do with the business in which you convert it. I've told you more than once, you don't do politics, you do business, business for yourself, business to be able to use the turning doors, business for the People's Party, business for your friends' testimonials, business for oligopolies and business for big businesses, business for everyone less for the Greeks and for the Greeks, business that are never clean. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs Martínez, regardless of other issues, I have already told you that I would not tolerate offensive qualifications for any Member. There are, therefore, democratically elected Members and Members here. So I ask you to withdraw it, and you have a call in order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As long as it doesn't vary, it hasn't changed. By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u288	It can be said to support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u289	I haven't given him the floor yet, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u290	I didn't listen. Mr. Jorquera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u291	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, Members and Ladies and gentlemen, in many debates in this House we have denounced Galicia's energy policy, a concept, by the way, accompanied by Mr Moro, not suspected of belonging to the BNG. Galicia produces double the electricity it needs for its domestic consumption needs, the energy sector in Galicia has a strategic value, it represents around 8% of our gross domestic product, in addition to being an important factor in industrial production. It is also a sector with strong growth potential that there is a suitable framework for its development. But, historically, Galicia had to deal with the social and environmental costs of this production specialization, and only received revenue from the use of these resources when we were subject to a single regulatory and tariff framework for the Spanish State as a whole and to the decisions taken by electricity companies operating in oligopolie through their decision-making centres outside Galicia. And it turns out, Counselor, that in the renewable energy sector we had an opportunity to bridge this situation, to take advantage of Galicia's extraordinary potential in this world so that it would be a development engine in our country. But again, the irresponsibility and submission of his government went very far towards Galicia. Irresponsibility for Mr. Feijóo's decision, nothing more to be invested president, to cancel the Bipartite's wind competition, a sectarian and capricious decision. Mr. Feijóo's government justified that decision by the alleged illegality, the great sin of public participation in that model. Something denied – say what you say, Counselor – by the Supreme Court of Justice itself of Galicia, who has evaluated its legality. And the annulment of that contest brought with it a waste of time for the development of Galician wind power, and caused the new projects to be affected by the regulatory changes introduced by Rajoy's government. And this is linked to the second question, Counselor: the submission of his government, a submission which, as I said, is coming out to Galicia very much. Look, the regulatory changes introduced by the Rajoy Government – as well as the author group of this interpellation – have led to a model change in the interests of the big electricians. And the consequence was to decree the paron of renewables using the tariff deficit as a pretext, to which you devoted much of your intervention, as if you were the Minister of Industry and not the board of Industry of the Galician Union. Look, the tariff deficit is the theme of the century. See if he finds out, Counselor! Because the tariff deficit is an artificial deficit generated by government law in the Aznar electricity sector to fatten the big electricity, those same power companies that the former ministers soon make to incorporate them into their board of directors. If the electricity tariff does not cover production costs, this is the basis of the tariff deficit. Of course!, ignoring that these are calculated through a peculiar pricing system in the wholesale market, where the price is set from the last generation sources that enter the system, surely the most expensive!, generally gas and coal. A system that, for example, causes the so-called "descending benefits of the sky", because these prices also apply to nuclear energy, for hydroelectric energy, even though it is much cheaper since investments are still amortized. A system also, Mr. Counsellor, that ignores that, besides the electricians, which supposedly ceases to win on one side, win on the other. Because it turns out that generators and electricity distributors are in the same hands. In short, and as I said, the timo of the century, the swindler of the century, to fatten the big electric companies. And to combat this suspected and invented tariff deficit, it is decreed that renewables should be released, ignoring the fact that renewable energies contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, they contribute to reducing the dependence of fossil fuels, which generate high value added activities, which ultimately contribute to modifying the production model, by placing on a more sustainable model, not only in the environment, but also in the social sector, as they generate quality employment and activities that bring knowledge and value added to the production process. And your government, Counselor, was an accomplice to all of this. It has allowed regulatory changes to invade and derail our powers in practice. It allowed the condemnation of a sector where Galicia has extraordinary potential and could be a strategic sector for our country. It allowed even this despite the fact that it was penalizing itself and leaving in ridicule the wind cannon itself established by the Government of Feijóo, because the new regulation penalises the creation of autonomous taxes and contemplates the possibility of impacting them on the fare paid by consumers. And what is the consequence of all this, Counsellor – since you appeal to a policy of facts and not of gestures –? Let's talk about the facts: the fiasco of the renewables of your government, Counselor. See, in November 2010, his predecessor, Mr. Javier Guerra, referred to the wind competition of his government, the Government of Feijóo, as the largest industrial plan in the history of Galicia. He said that, according to him, by making a conservative calculation – something logical considering who comes from – investments would rise to EUR 5,953 million. That's what he said, it's written, Counselor. And that 13,200 jobs would be created – it is written, Counsellor – 8,000 of them would be indirect jobs, and 3,166 directly or linked to associated industrialization plans. Yes, you heard well, 3.166, real precision calculation! And what is the reality, since you appeal to the facts? That instead of 13,200 jobs, they created 1,800, 13% of the jobs announced. And that only 850 million euros were invested, a ridiculous 14% of the total announced. Done, Counselor. Look, the facts are that in 2008 Galicia was at the head of production, and it was the second community in installed power, behind Castile-A Mancha. Now Castela-La Mancha also knows us in production. Castile and Lion are also supplied with installed power. And in Andalusia, over the past few years, it has installed five times more power than in Galicia. And the facts say that, of the four most powerful communities installed, Galicia, which is different, has grown less since 2008. These are the facts, Counselor. But let me conclude by reading him a statement from the Galician Wind Association itself. I read textually: "Front to the gradual destruction of the Greek wind sector, the Galician Union was unable to effectively defend the interests of the sector. Other autonomous governments, including some of the People's Party, and others with much less installed wind power than ours, have brought appeals to the Constitutional Court. The Executive of Nuñez Feijóo preferred to avoid openly questioning the foundations of the reform and opting for the opening of negotiating tables with the Central Executive, who have so far not benefited at all." End of date, Counselor. Finally, and that's why the irresponsibility and submission of his government on this subject are going very far towards the country. These are the facts, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u292	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u293	Well, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. It's hard to say more things. I'd like that if you try to apply rigour to statements, because you tend to confuse people with interest. As for the wind competition, it is still to define the legality of the annulment of the Bipartite competition. That's always forgotten to tell you, it's still in the Supreme Court the last decision to decide whether there was a deviation of power in that annulment or not, the product of a contentious appeal by Aucosa Wind, against which the Board appealed, after a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that admitted in part but not in the fundamental part, which is that of a deviation of power. So when the Supreme Court ratifys, or not, the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, we will already speak, because, if that judgment is ratified in the paragraphs which it did not love the Council of Galicia, it is prepared for a cascade of property claims. And that's still pending. So we don't take the bells off the flight. On the other hand, there would also have to be a monograph on what the tariff deficit is, as Mr. Jorquera explained, –and he was reading on the computer Apointes for solving the tariff deficit, by Natalia Fabra–. And it would have to be explained why it's only loaded... I don't defend the management of the Socialist Party in the state government of energy policy, I don't defend it, no, but it's very similar to what you're doing. Because you're carrying only the guilt of the hypothetical tariff deficit on renewables, but you haven't done this either to solve the over-remuneration of nuclear and large hydraulics, as Mr. Jorquera has indicated, by fixing prices that Mrs. Natalia Fabra said it was to buy pigeons at the price of cod. Well, they didn't touch anything like that. Because they didn't touch the big hydraulics and the nuclear because they belong to certain companies. Well, on the other hand, you can't try to cut that supposed tariff deficit, which we deny, because it's not the same real costs as regulated costs. The costs regulated in many technologies are higher than the actual costs, and therefore the real costs of each technology must be adapted to the costs paid. So surely we have to pay more for renewable energy because we are interested as a country and we have to pay less for nuclear and large hydraulics, which are already amortized. That's for one part. I'd have to tell you if it's innocent that concentration of responsibilities on renewable energies, in a model that I've already said we don't share at all. As we don't share the model that you propose for the wind competition either. We propose a completely different and viable model, and not as you propose, which is putting on a real cap for the development of the sector in this country. You came here a year ago to pass a law amending the Law of Wind Use, you said to reactivate the wind competition. Counsellor, how many megawatts have settled in the People's Party's Wind Contest? Say it here. How many megawatts were installed in Galicia for wind production in 2014? You know how many? 27,48, Counsellor, 2014, 27,48, zero megawatts of the wind competition. And you said the other day here that, despite the fact that no megawatts had been installed, companies had invested in investment and job creation. We don't know the records of the Wind Competition Follow-up Commission, we'd like to know them to see if that data is true. But if that's the case, do you know what that means, Counselor? Which are investments that these companies would already do anyway, even if they didn't have to opt for the wind competition. As, for example, those included in the previous Multiannual Investment Plan Natural Gas. These are investments that already have to be incurred, distribution, by which they are already remunerated and which they put as "merits" in the wind competition, there is no other explanation. If these companies had investment commitments and job creation in exchange for installing megawatts, they don't install megawatts, and they're also making investments, that's what they're making investments that would either do or do. So they were valuing in the wind competition investments that they didn't have to value. But I told him he's not our model. You have a dead, halted, paralysed wind competition, they haven't installed any megawatts after so many years – well, a few years –. Well, but you didn't develop a policy framework either, for example, to enhance small production. On the contrary, you refused to produce wind power in the ordinary system. And it's in European justice, yes, sir. And you haven't developed a normative framework to enhance these kinds of productions, which can perfectly produce – as is done in other European countries, which is all invented – in small productions. They also did not pressure or develop any regulations to promote net self-consumption, self-consumption in the form of cooperatives, etc., which in this country, in these years we have been paralyzed, could have been a niche of employment and wealth creation, especially in rural areas. And we say it's all invented because they just have to implement the European Directive 72/2009, they have to make the actual separation of production, distribution and marketing activities, which you as a People's Party have not done. They have to recognize the benefits of distributed production, and not as you did with self-consumption, with that draft that scared people to make investments, and establish backup fees, which the Competition Commission itself has already given them a demolition report. Because you, like the German Government, are not defending the general interest of this country, which is very clear right now. It's to give a brochure to a contest that mostly benefited companies from outside, that didn't benefit the country. The profits of the wind competition go outside, 76% of the Galician wind production is from companies outside Galicia. And how do you explain to the citizen that this wind production is not in the hands of mountain communities, municipalities, cooperatives – as it is in Denmark, Germany, Catalonia? How do you explain to the citizenry that it is not possible to make wind production in the hands of the citizenship itself – of the municipalities, of the mountain communities...? Why not? Isn't that possible? If big companies have financial problems with large investments, don't you think that many people right now, if you hadn't adjusted with laws and drafts, in agricultural farms, in pigs, in Coren, wouldn't they be installing renewables? Or could there be no installation of renewables in the population nuclei? Yes, but you and the big companies don't care, because there'd be a huge flight of customers to big companies. That's what would happen. And it would happen like in other European countries, where more than 50% of energy production is in the hands of citizens. And here, in this state, 90% of electricity production is in the hands of four or five companies. That's the reality. And as those four or five companies were already overcrowding, and they were setting prices for Europe's most expensive ones, people were looking for alternatives. And the alternatives are the small production. And then, in the face of that massive consumer leak, you, the People's Party, have legislated not to end the tariff deficit. That, I say, we wait for the liquidation. The announcement that there will be a surplus has already been said last year by Mr. Soria and it has not been fulfilled. I'll wait for the liquidation, and then, if so, I'll recognize you. They didn't do it to end the tariff deficit, they did it to save the situation to those companies. And that's the reality, the reality of a government that has come to benefit the gas lobby in this country, and to go against renewables. Yes, sir! Because if you really did make a policy to fight the tariff deficit, you would take some of the measures I told you earlier, which is to reduce the costs recognized to nuclear and large hydraulics. They didn't. They bore all the responsibilities, all the costs, on a renewable sector, which is the future of this country, one of the important legs of this country's future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u294	For the Popular Group, Mr. Arias Veira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u295	Madam President. Mr. Count. Ladies and gentlemen, the question was, did it really count on Joina or the wind competition?, how is it? Well, this was the interpellation [...] Mr. Losada wanted to change the agenda of the debate and made a series of provocative pyrotechnic political games for us to talk about other things. Half the time he talked about it, but not about the evaluation, the situation and its alternative. Then, logically, he did a pre-election political imputation saying, "You're the transmission belts of big companies." Well, let's first talk about a concrete thing: are we the transmission belts of big companies? Well, look, the Socialist Party went up the energy prices during its mandate by 70%, i.e. the prices that companies sell, by 70%, between 2004 and 2011. Could anyone do a greater favor to big businesses? Mr. Sánchez forgets this point. He doesn't agree with the Socialist Party, but we're facing this whole problem. It should be imputed to the Socialist Party and said that all the benefits that they could derive extraordinary were due to the Socialist Party, which rose prices uncommonly. Secondly, you forget the issue of premiums. Well, I said that. But they point out that when the People's Party enters Galicia in 2009, it's dealing with this problem: with the increase in energy prices and tariff deficits. It seems that now it's an artificial construction the subject of tariff deficits. What do they consist of? Let's see, does anyone think there are no premiums for wind farms? Before the People's Party arrived in Galicia in this second term of 2009, the problem was: what about having an wind concession? That was a round business! It was a gift. Why? Because the costs of producing energy were overcompensated by a guarantee price that the State gave to each wind farm. And this, whatever you say: No, no, that you were benefiting from another type of such... i.e., no, no, for the existing technological level there was that premium, that difference between cost of production and price of sale, that you were doing a round business by concession. That's why we had to make a contest, etc. But until we arrived in 2009, we didn't make any sort of allocation related to industrial plans in a context where the elements of premiums were being sheltered. 'Cause they say, 'No, all this was invented by Aznar. When the tariff deficit is analysed, until 2004, at the end of the Aznar Government, there is EUR 200 million. From then on, almost 30,000. Okay, okay, if you like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, if you want, it doesn't matter, I'll grant it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because I'm tired of repeating evidence, I'm tired of repeating this evidence. So what's going on? What is the model on the left – at least as long as he ruled –? First of all, technically, it was: It's green, we're going to sell green and we're going to clientize the autonomous communities where we are or want to be massively, giving massive subsidies; not only to large companies – that too – but to a lot of small customers, etc., generally. We have the pretext: it's green, it's future. Technology wasn't for this, technology wasn't yet developed to compete efficiently. Therefore, the empowerment of an emerging industry – as it might be this type – should have a very aquilated pilot-type subsidy in certain places exclusively. But not this generalized waste, which well mentioned and remembered the minister, and Mr. Conde. And then talking to us about light bulbs, then talking to us about this kind of paraphernalia, which should be remembered. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada also disturbs intervention. I'm asking for a little silence too, if you'll excuse me. This is the axis. What was the political management in Galicia of the left ruling government? Well, he's been waiting. Elections are won in mid-2005. Did they make a quick wind competition? No, they waited electorally at the end of the legislation, to see who was aiming so hard. Because, of course, it was a bit of a point because the type of contest was practically a gift, a windfall – which is said in the argot –. It was a wonderful gift, who's going to point it out, would the Socialist Party or the Block point it out? Did you point Pachi Vázquez or will you point the Lord of the Block? And what did that political discussion mean? That Galicia has been paralysed almost all of a legislation – which now criticizes that only in a year will legality be restored. In one year, from 2009 to 2010, a competition was established with merit, industrial plans, etc., in an absolutely unfavorable context. When the People's Party comes to the government, what do you do? It attacks all energy holders, because this country is inadmissible, it is full of demands from all kinds of entities – small, large, medium –. And even it has to be said that the previous government has now been the subject of a demand – these that speak of which we govern for large companies – for which they claim 3,400 million because the government of Mr. Zapatero and the Minister of Economics has refused to pass to all energy companies the excess costs of transition to competition, 3,400 million. And they talk, and the same ones that gave amnesty to bankers. But it's the same, it's the same, it's not the truth, it's not the same. You always have to refer to certain kinds of falsifications and sneezing maneuvers, because this is the fundamental problem. Wind energy, as background, in Galicia has possibilities. But it's not competitive anywhere, in any park model, under any circumstances. The policy of industrialization of subsidies is over, and much more of grants to the finger. And what is this policy now being done? What does it consist of? First, to process all plans, to process those that are being processed, and there are expectations for regularization. Based primarily on what? In the possibility that, because Galicia is an area of enormous wind capacity, really without subsidies can work. And we have to keep in mind that during the Socialist Party there was an excess of ten times the demand. That's why there's a terrible cross of demands. Because some logically are unsustainable, certain types of companies and parks benefiting from these things – which are precisely not most of the Greeks –. And this is precisely the political-energy hierarchy that has left this government, but we are working. Of the industrial plans they say, no, now 983 million investments are nothing, they're ready, they're not worth that. In the crisis itself, 2,000 jobs. No, they'd be done anyway. Anyway, in another time, I would give these classes the non-evaluation of the existing one. The logic, the logic of the economy... that is, the agents who are at the front of these things, and even after this contest we won the elections by a stronger majority. The opinion is not valued. And it looks like it's about him now... We support the Government because, in addition, we are convinced, we dialogue, we dialogue on these issues. Now Mr. Conde explained the issue of the stability of the transport network they are trying, which in Spain is actually achieving a very difficult sanitation of the sector, a stabilization, of the Electric Network with the Government, which is trying to get all the parks that are processing and authorizing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u296	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u297	...have a connection to the network, which is one of the elements so that there are no bottlenecks – bottlenecks – that precisely prevent their sale. So, the 2015-2020 program can allow Galicia, for competitiveness and without subsidies, to win most of the five megawatts that will take out the central government. I do not share that idyllic account, in these specific circumstances, that there can be no self-consumption here. Well, of course, there's self-production, what happens is that it's very expensive. It's very close to self-production. But you're making it possible, and you're mutating other things. Logically, some people probably think that the ideal designs, which I think today, given the level of skepticism of the people and the experiences of failed promises that do not exist, are no longer worth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u298	Thank you very much, Mr Arias. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u299	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u300	Thank you. Replica roll. You have the floor, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u301	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, indeed, I will continue, Mr Arias, with the pyrotechnic games. Pyrotechnic games that are essentially 7 billion euros of profits each year to the three big Spanish electricians. That's the fundamental pyrotechnic game while the Government of Greece and the Government of Spain resisted themselves as an upward cat to establish help for families who have energy supply problems. That's really a pyrotechnic game. [[Applause]] Look, with all due respect, Counselor, the melodramatic approach is wrong, I think it doesn't fit very much with his personality. I'm not Stanislavski to talk about theatre, but what's true is that the Chief Energy Officer, the last of the Fraga Government, Ramón Ordás, was accused of granting his brother-in-law wind farms. By the way, accompanied by Antonio Fontenla, the one the Government Feijóo gave him 18 million euros to internationalize we don't know what. So, I'm talking about it, I don't know if I have to go to the courts, if I have to go to the Supreme Justice of Galicia to declare something secret, or where I have to go, but I'm talking about it, exactly that, Counselor. [[Applause]] And precisely the Bipartite's wind competition, with all its problems, wanted two things: to introduce the public element into that economic activity, which is a strategic activity, and a mechanism for the different economic agents to compete and therefore present their offers. I think it's pretty easy to understand. Look, Counselor, he said he didn't intend to talk about the past. Listen, I brought it all perfectly written. In order not to have thought of the past, since then he dissembled, we're at the theater of Maria Guerreo, because he dissembled... - I mean, mother-fucking-fucking-fucking-ass, but he did very well. You've done very well, yes. We're not going to talk, of course, about light bulbs and vests, about politics... no, we're not going to talk about it. You'll never see me here defending neither the light bulbs nor the claws. By the way, low-consumption bulbs are an energy efficiency mechanism like many others. I admit that it probably doesn't have to be the central element of an energy policy, but – I insist – I haven't spoken at any time of anecdotes, I think. No, I don't think so. I asked where the 14,000 jobs were and the 6 billion euros. If that seems to you like an anecdote, with 25% unemployment and a growth in GDP of 0.5%, while in Spain it grows 1.4%, there you and your president, or the president of the Government of Spain. Because I'm going to read, although I don't have much time, really, the interpellation, to see if you've answered something you put here, with melodrama or without melodrama, with pyrotechnics or without pyrotechnics. Did the Galician Board periodically evaluate the results of the wind competition it promoted? It'll be endogenous, exogenously not, that I know, maybe I'm underinformed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What are the results of this assessment? The secret of the pyramid. Have new wind farms been built in that contest? Let this humble vogue know, no. Perhaps, perhaps, in that virtual reality where Professor Arias lives, who, at last, we moved there, was going to say in the cave, but he referred to Plato, of course; at last. What construction phase are they in? That I know, in none, because construction is a physical act. I know you move in commodities, in industry 4.0 and in cyberspace, but construction means building. I don't think you need to be Chomsky, you don't need to be a renowned linguist. Building, counsellor, don't talk to me about administrative procedures, I'm talking to you about building wind farms. Mount towers with spires that move when there is wind, so simple. What is the planned opening calendar? I don't know. Industrial investments linked to that concession have been made? You say yes, tell it here. I just want them in writing, it doesn't seem like a daring.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u302	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u303	At what stage are these investments being carried out? I don't know either. What is the expected opening schedule of these? I don't know either. But look, Counsellor, in the debate of the state of autonomy of the year 2012, this government has committed itself to informing this Parliament every six months of the development of the Wind Plan. You owe us four reports already. Don't talk to me about claws, light bulbs, nothing like that, don't talk to me about pyrotechnic games, man! And, of course, with regard to citizens. Tell me Mr. Arias, "I respect citizens." What citizens don't respect is who tries to deceive them, that's what citizens don't respect. And look, Counselor, it was so gross everything, it was so obvious that they defended the interests of the big electricians, that the reports on which the cuts of the Rajoy government renewables were based were non-existent, and the Government was unable to deny it. They didn't make them independent economic agents or the government itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u305	We've been fixed by the big electricians, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u306	The Councilman of Economics and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u307	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you come without a tie, it's not to follow the energy policy of the Socialist Party, it's a fashion issue. In any case, indeed, we agree that we have not come here to talk about a policy of actions, but rather about a policy of facts. In any case – because there is a tendency on the part of the opposition, from all groups, by the way, to try to leave in this House that cliché that the Government is in line with the big electricity –, what I can move you firmly is that this government always acts, in all cases, with all companies in the same way. First of all, in order to enforce the regulations, that's the responsibility of the Government. And tell me in which cases this government does not assume its responsibility. And this government also requires electrical companies to comply with investments, guaranteed – that is the responsibility of the Government – the greatest economic and social impact for Galicia and logically also the compatibility with the environment. We are constantly accused of defending the electricians, even the Socialist Party does so, when it is the Government of Mr. Zapatero that is being investigated because they have forgiven – they have – they say – EUR 3.400 million to the electricians by not claiming the charge – as they well know – for the costs of transition to competition. In any case, I also remind you that, during the Bipartite, you, the power companies... listen to the data if they don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You opened up at the Bipartite nine sanctioning files to the electrics, nine. [[Murmurs.]] The amount of these sanctioning files was 97,000 euros in four years. In nine files, 97,000 euros. This government has, in particular, opened more than 1,097 electrical files with sanctioning files amounting to 11.3 million euros. That's the difference, Your Honor, that's the difference. [[Applause]] You're telling me this government doesn't care about the most vulnerable families. I am sorry to remind you that this government has indeed taken the initiative to establish an electric ticket amounting to EUR 1.5 million just to encourage the most vulnerable families. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the opposition was anchored in December 2011. I'm sorry. It seems that this disordered energy policy must not be taken into account when taking on new responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party in Madrid has left a tariff deficit of EUR 27 billion, 3% of gross domestic product. The Socialist Party has been committed annually, in payments of renewables premiums, EUR 10.500 million that we had to pay all Spaniards. And, logically, I'm sorry that you don't recognize that reality, and I'm even more sorry, for a minimum political responsibility, that you don't understand that you had to take action and you had to make decisions to correct that situation. And the People's Party government assumed that responsibility and, logically, it had to include corrective measures. Those corrective measures, logically – this government always recognized it – affected the wind competition, how would it not affect? What happens is that this government did what it did to accompany and consensualize, ladies and gentlemen, the sector measures so that, in fact, the wind competition and the different parks could follow its process. And today's reality is that we actually have 1,939 megawatts in processing, and we already have 11 licensed parks. And the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that these parks are doing the engaged investments, which are creating these jobs. And today there are investments for more than 850 million euros, 57% of the active investment, and 1,800 jobs, which is 55% of the committed employment of the megawatts too. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this government is assuming its commitment, it is working with the sector so that the sector, at the moment, can, thanks to the efficiency of the different parks and thanks to the advance of administrative processing, be able to opt for that auction of the remuneration of the 500 megawatts, and therefore the Greek wind sector can have a future and guarantee a viability. That is the commitment and, of course, this government will be with the sector so that the wind sector can continue to work towards the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u308	Thank you very much, Counselor. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 7 of questions to the Government. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the meaning of Mr. President's statements in relation to the future of Cence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u309	You have the floor to ask your question, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u310	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. What does the sentence of the President of the Board mean by saying that the German Government wants to talk about the future of Ence? Answer (a) "I am committed to unveiling before the end of 2008 what placement will move the pastry factory to get it out of the river in Pontevedra. Moving The Ring is a firm commitment from my government. I'll meet with the company in the next few days. We're not going to say one thing and do another. We're not the Bipartite. I've already transferred to the president of Ence my personal decision to move the plant from the Pontevedra River during a meeting I had with him in June 2009. I told you it's not possible to keep the Cence in the creek because it's a clear desire of the Greek Government that the company doesn't consolidate its future project there. I personally told him not to interfere. Galician interests are not the company's interests." Answer b) "We intend to open a debate with the rest of the political forces to see what their opinion is. We want to keep jobs and wealth, and maximum environmental guarantees. We're going to be stricter than the Bipartite in 2008. I'm saying the alternative to Ence is not the transfer, it's the closure. There's no alternative. Let's not fool ourselves. I keep my election program." All these statements – although they seem incredible – are from the President of the Board, but they are different, they are very different. We asked ourselves, from this socialist bench, whether there are two presidents, the president of the reply a) what comes to this Parliament, and the president of the answer b) what was sailing in yachts with Martial Dorada. Or perhaps it is the opposite: the President of the reply a) is what he was traveling on a yacht, and that of the answer b) is what he comes to answer to this Parliament. I repeat the question: what does the president of the board mean by saying that the German Government wants to talk about the future of Ence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u312	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Vilan, concrete question and concrete answer. What does the president mean when he says he wants to talk about the future, the future of Pontevedra – Pontevedra and the whole area, because it is not only Pontevedra, you, as he lives there, just like me, know perfectly that he is not only affected, that he is very directly affected Pontevedra, but rather a much wider area? You will also know that Pontevedra is the most unemployed city in Galicia. And even though you're there a little bit of tobacco in the government, with no relevance, in the end, you, Mr. Lores, are there... because you've kept it and, therefore, I suppose it will be or will feel corresponding to the figures and results of the municipal government. [[Murmurs.]] I already know that Mr. Lores says continuously – I know it because I live there – that a mayor doesn't have to say anything about unemployment, that it's not his competition, that there's more or less unemployed in a municipality has nothing to do with government or municipal competences, and therefore it's something he doesn't have to take a minute. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm glad, for example, that yesterday Mr. Black had said that his star measure is to create 10,000 jobs in the legislature, that all the candidates and the candidates of the People's Party take unemployment as their first measure, and while we do that, their allies are dedicated to doing them. [[Murmurs.]] That's the important difference in talking about unemployment. [[Applause]] Mrs Vilan, look, there is no future without employment, and therefore talking about closing companies is quite incompatible, in my opinion – and I suppose that in the opinion of the vast majority of people – to talk about lowering unemployment rates and talking about people having a perspective. And of that future we speak and of that future speaks the president of the Galician Union. We speak of 800 jobs, between direct and indirect – probably more –. We are talking about 13% of the GDP of Pontevedra municipality, 3% of the GDP of Galicia. We're talking about a forest industry that 3,000 companies are associated with. We're talking about 40,000 jobs in the forest sector, which are largely dependent on Ence. We're talking about a pretty near council of ourselves, the suburb of Navia, which is wishing some politicians to shut down some companies to accommodate them – and we've seen the example that was in Huelva. In the end, we speak of being absolutely scrupulous – that he had no doubt about the environmental demands. We're talking about a commitment that hasn't had the Ence company with Pontevedra so far and it'll have to. We're talking about all that, that's talking about the future. You guys, in the meantime, I don't know very well what they're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u313	Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u314	Thank you, President. Welcome, Vice President. I thought I was going to be the advisor, because it was the one who came in to answer my question, but exactly the same as you can answer it; that is, without answering it, he told me the same thing as the president of the board, the one who comes here to answer, I don't know if the other one. I also appreciate your elegance with that we're giving tobacco; you're really elegant. I, as I am a lady, as one friend of mine says, don't want to be as elegant as you are, but I would also want to tell you that at one time, instead of giving tobacco, there were some people who gave coffee to others, so that others who weren't of their ideology didn't have the chance to participate in that coffee. I, as elegant as I am, will not answer you like this; therefore, I do not enter into such an elegant debate. We don't have coffee. Some people, by the way, some of those who were sitting on their bench, gave coffee in their cribs to others, but right now, by the way, we're committed to giving tobacco. Look, President, we're talking about deception, because you've deceived the Greeks. President Feijóo voted in the previous legislation with his dedication, he personally voted, saying that a new situation would be sought from here for Ence, to move from the river before the end of 2018. They were wrong. His party in his 2012 election program – I have him here – was betting for Ence to abandon his current placement. You cheated in 2012. I'm talking, we're talking about deception. And we speak of deception when you now say that the final decision on extension corresponds to the central government, curiously the central government, which is that of the same political party as you, and when the central government began to change the law from behind, you didn't say anything. So we're talking about deception, we're talking about silence, and of course we're talking to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u315	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. [[Applause]] The vice president and chairlor have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u316	Mrs Vilan, first – we told you many times when you think you're going to answer a counselor or another – this government is a compact government – understanding that the difference in what happened before is important – and, well, I think we can all answer without any problem things that have to do with the competences that can touch us in some way or other. You don't understand that, you've never understood it, and you'll go on without understanding it: the united government that responds when it needs it. [[Applause]] Second. Look, if you don't like tobacco, I'll take it back, no problem. I say: irrelevant, irrelevant, absolutely irrelevant. As I live in Pontevedra, I can tell. You don't know very well what they're dedicated to, and, in view of the surveys and predictions there are, at last, you should take note of that as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't want... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The only problem here is not to talk about 800 jobs in Pontevedra, 13% of GDP or the future of a lot of people who can get out of work and go to another city who is wishing to take them in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. The important thing here is what the president said or didn't say. All the rest of it gives them exactly the same. If anyone who can get out of work in Pontevedra asks him, he says, "No, no, but to me what I care about is what the president said in Parliament; if you're out of work, what we're going to do to him, son! Is that what you're going to tell anyone who asks you to work at Ence right now? [[Murmurs.]] I suppose that's the argument. Look, if that's why, I'm not going to come in talking to you about debates – even talking about elegance – between being either responsible or being consistent, as Mr Barquero says. I think it has to be both responsible and consistent. You, as one thing is responsibility, and another is coherence, finally, that debate that was fashionable. [[Applause]] We're not going to get into that kind of debate that doesn't interest the citizens, especially in order, in the end, to stand out. Tell me about a change in posture because we were taking a number of things into the program. Look, there were ten laws that we took in the electoral programme that we presented in this Parliament and you voted against them. Now it turns out you care about the coherence of the Popular Party election program. When you vote against the things that we've been taking and there's nothing saying, it turns out that breaking the program is the thing that's missing. The situation has changed, Mrs Vilán. You, who lives in Pontevedra, I suppose you will. He continued to unemployment, we are the city – I insist – with more unemployment from Galicia and, therefore, I think we must have a responsible attitude. And now, which has also changed the Law of Back, the possibility of extension of concessions, at least one has to consider it – I told you – demanding a number of counter-recessions from the company. That's what you don't care about, what you can compromise, what jobs are going to keep, how many non-important damage, whether the president said one thing or not, whether he at first held a position and now, under responsibility and under coherence, that both things – I say – can go together, that gives you exactly the same thing. And he speaks of coherence, too. Look, in the 2005 program, you were taking the transfer from Ence. What did they do during the four years they ruled? You know what they did? [[Murmurs.]] The president of the board said that the other day. In 2008, give integrated environmental authorisation. How is that compatible? How do you marry the show you were wearing, Mrs. Vilán? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, in any case, just keep it that way. I'm telling you: I'm withdrawing tobacco, I'm telling you, I'm irrelevant, they're so irrelevant that they don't even come out on Mr. Lores' roof anymore, but they may need to be without constables to realize it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u317	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Joint, on the actions being carried out in Galicia in order to comply with the judgment relating to the polydeportune built in Melón Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u318	You have the word of Mrs. Churches to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u319	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. In October 2004, the mayor of Melón, Alberto Pardellas, signed the planning act of the work of building a sports club; he decided to build it the short distance from the monastery of Santa Maria de Melón, which has a declaration of good cultural interest. For this reason, the work did not have permission from the Territorial Policy Council, of which Alberto Núñez Feijóo was the headline. The Council issued reports contrary to its construction because it contravenes the regulations applied to the perimeters of the goods that have a BIC declaration. He didn't have the approval of Heritage either. After several requirements of the councils and the People's Valedor, the mayor ignored and continued the construction. The Board declared the construction of the polydeportune to be irreplaceable, for affecting a BIC in September 2005, agreeing to its demolition. The order was confirmed by a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in 2008, which had dismissed the appeal filed by the Council. In 2010 the High Court would condemn Pardellas for not executing the demolition, to eight and a half years of disability, by prevarication, in firm judgment. I also imposed a fine on the 120,000 Euro Town Hall. The pardon requested by the mayor was refused. Finally, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in a firm and unappealable judgment of February 19, 2015, obliges the Urban Legality Protection Agency to demolition of the sports police illegally built in the area of protection of the monastery of Santa Maria de Melón, which – I repeat – has the BIC declaration. The APLU has three months from the date of the judgment to bring it down permanently. The current mayor, Cristina Francisco Vílchez, married to the sentenced mayor, said, in recent statements, that the sportsman, located on the edge of the monastery, is not going to collapse, since we will finish the processing, as she was agreed with Heritage in writing the special plan. It points out that: It takes a long time to work in this process, since whenever there is a way of legalization, we will have to try it before it arrives – read in Spanish because they are textual words from the mayor – to the fall and I have reports that it is possible. What actions – so I ask you this question – are you carrying out the Galician Union to comply with the judgement of February 19, 2015? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u320	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mrs. Ethel Vázquez has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u321	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Board is carrying out all the necessary procedures to comply with the judgement of the High Court of Justice in relation to the demolition of the building to which you refer on your own initiative. As you mentioned, the process is long and complex, which has been delayed over time as a result of the changes introduced in the urban planning of Melón. Because, as you know, it was a modification to the 2008 Municipal General Plan that changed the soil classification, from rustic soil to urban soil, and the one that prevented in practice that the Urban Legality Protection Agency could execute the order of defeat of the sporty, due to lack of competence when passing from rustic soil to urban soil. Because that criterion of lack of competence was endorsed by justice, by the Court of Justice of the Comptrollership No. 2 of Ourense, in the judgment dated February 17, 2014. With this decision the appeal was brought before the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and, as you indicated, the high court of Galicia has just rendered a firm judgment. He did so, as you said on February 19, urging the Urban Legality Protection Agency to execute the order of demolition of this property, as soon as possible, within a period not exceeding three months since the notification of that judgment. And it was last April when he entered the judgement in the General Registry of the Galician Council, the communication of the firm judgment handed down in appeal to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. And, in the knowledge of this court ruling, the APLU, the Urban Legality Protection Agency, commissioned an inspection visit, valued the state in which the construction was found, valued the necessary actions to comply with the ordered demolition and began the processing of the drafting of the construction project for demolition. These are the steps we're taking and the steps we're going to take, because it's the hiring of the work for the drafting of the project, hiring the jobs to define the amount of the works, and once the drafting of the construction project is completed, we will proceed to hire the works of demolition. Therefore, the Union is moving forward, it will continue to advance in the administrative procedures legally provided for so that within the time limit set by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia the demolition work declared illegal will be completed. The duty of the German Government, of course, is to comply with the judicial resolutions, and with this we are committed, and we will do so: to comply with the judgement handed down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia on February 19th, which orders the material execution of the so-called demolition and also the restoration of its contour. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Replica from Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u323	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Vázquez, for she was concerned about the subject, since the mayor who was disabled for eight years already found that she had a criminal record, not computable for the effect of recidivism. The mayor of what we're talking about, Mrs. Cristina, has an application for opening an oral trial... I'm sorry, I thought it was a colloquial expression, I thought it wasn't offensive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. I'll take it back, I'll take it back. Sorry, I have no problem with withdrawing, no problem with removing the expression "bitter". [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Cristina, mayor of Melón, is convicted of falsifying a public document by falsifying the assistance of a convicted person for driving without an identity card, who had to do social work and she signed it and he wouldn't. And in addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office initiates an investigation into the works of a field benefiting from European funds in Melon. Then you will understand, Mrs Vázquez, that my question is important. And what if – I repeat – I appreciate the explanations, and I hope that before the summer this building is destroyed, because it is sentenced. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u324	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Here... Sorry, just like you said it was over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u325	No, it's just occurred to me that the rooms you're visiting at Melon's party in Melon, that there are no melons... where Mr Baltar is going... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u326	Iglesias, ma'am Iglesias...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u327	...saying the pregono of the parties, those funds can go here to tear down the building. Thank you very much. Now I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u328	Mrs Vázquez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u329	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as I said, it is the duty of the Government to comply with the judgments, and so on. But I have to say that the main lines of action of the Greek Government in the area of spatial planning and urbanism are to raise awareness and prevent works, installations or uses that contravene urban legislation. We are focusing our efforts on compliance and repositioning of legality, and this is an example, the concrete case of Melón's sports policy. And, on the other hand, performances geared to the best sort and also improving and protecting our landscape. In this task, the work of the Agency for the Protection of Urban Legality is essential, which in recent years is monitoring the rational use of the soil and therefore has a role to play in protecting and implementing urban legislation. As we must remember, the objective of the APLU is not to overthrow, not to sanction, not to collect, is to contribute to order and protect the Greek territory. And it also creates social awareness of compliance with the norms; that is, urban discipline and also respect for the natural environment and the care of the natural environment, because we know it's not all worth everything. Of course, we know that it's not everything, Your Honor, that's why we believe that awareness, education, and also the need to comply with and enforce standards, and for that we also need the active collaboration of the Greek municipalities. I think we're going the right way. It's shown by the APLU, the Urban Legality Protection Agency, which year by year is increasing its effectiveness. I'll give you a couple of examples. In the first trimester of 2015, 95 repossessions of legality began; 44 demolition orders, but only two were exercised by the APLU. In 2014, 129 demolitions, only one was executed by the APLU. Therefore, 98% of the demolitions are carried out voluntarily. This points out, therefore, that there is increasing social awareness about the repositioning of legality and the need to return the territory to its natural state. Your Honor, you know that when an urban infringement occurs and if the demolition of the property is determined, the APLU comes down from the construction that incurs illegality. This is the case of the demolition of the structure, for example, of the Pillar in Poio, and also of the Stone in Pattern, demolition which has recently occurred. Your Honor, as far as vigorating legislation so establishes it, Junta will take over and act accordingly, leading to the overthrow. That's how we'll do it, of course, in this case we're dealing with today. The Greek Government will fulfill and will continue to scrupulously, of course, to carry out judicial mandates. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u330	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to ensure the recovery of its savings by the people affected by the marketing of preferential shares and subordinate obligations, as well as the clearance of responsibilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u331	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u332	Good afternoon. I suppose Mr. Rueda will answer me. Good afternoon. One of the biggest scams in our country was that of the favorites, perpetrated by the savings boxes and agreed by those who had competence and power to control the actions of these boxes: the Banco de España or the Board of Galicia. Euro1,800 million was marketed in preference to more than 100,000 Greeks and Greeks. The strong and continuous pressure of the organized scams has taken him to react. They were either in one way or another, with their own or without their own, with trial or arbitration, recovering the money from the preferenceists. In the middle there were many obstacles, among them, the attempt to criminalize this movement, by discouraging people basically based on false sanctions and denunciations. The fines to preferenceists who defended their rights reached as much as 20,000 euros, but time proved to be false. From the trials of these complaints, the result was 26 apologies to one. Whoever defends rights is repressed by the People's Party. The big swindlers, on the other hand, don't. Nevertheless, there are still about 10,000 that have not yet been able to recover close to 100 million euros. The new owner of the bank, when he did with NewCajaGalice at the bargain price, committed to settling the pending payments to scams, but today he hasn't fulfilled his promise, despite having in the first year millionaire benefits. That's why today we ask what measures he's going to take, what he's going to take, what he's going to take, what he's going to take, how he's going to get back the money back to the last swindle. In addition, the National Securities Market Commission imposed a fine on the old NovaCaixaGalicia, which will be assumed by Abanca, of 2 million euros – of course, it is cheap to cheat – for trading these products irregularly between 2009 and 2011. What did the Galician Union do about marketing during these years? Did you exercise the powers that gave you the Galician Box Law? No, the Galician board looked elsewhere, they were probably giving tobacco, too, the boxes. They have not done anything to prevent it, and today they keep that box investigation commission paralyzed without any intention of clearing up the necessary political responsibilities. So, two questions: what actions will the Galician Union develop to ensure that all the savings of the cheated people are recovered? And what will you do to clear up the political responsibilities in this case? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u333	Thank you, Mr. García. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, good afternoon. First of all, it's funny that you tell me that you accused of inoperation a commission you didn't want to be in. They're there with observers when they could be active and do what they thought would be appropriate. But they don't want to be, and now it turns out the problem is that they don't act. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I fully agree, the favorites were a scam and they've got responsibility, but look at them at the Bank of Spain and who was at that time ruling in the central administration, which I suppose would appoint the governor, the Socialist Party, which you have very close to. But I agree it was a scam and a discharge of responsibility. I am also curious – and I have to tell you – that after so long without talking about the preferences, now, in the last plenary before the municipal elections, you remember this subject. Too bad we're waking up all the time! It's also a good sign that things, of course, were getting pretty much better. I suppose you'll agree with that too, seeing the platforms dissolve once they achieve their goals. But it's good that, after so long without asking, you do it at the last plenary. I suppose it will also be a coincidence that at the last plenary you will remember to ask this question which I gladly answer you. Look, by doing a little retrospective, we weren't on cross-arms, much less, in a problem we never created. I'll tell you who's responsible for this scam. We were – I suppose you know – the first autonomy that installed the arbitration system. We have to see what you said when we started with arbitration, what people were told, that they didn't get in there, that it was a mistake, that it was a way of having them distracted and that it wouldn't be of any use at all. Maybe you didn't say it, but your comrades, and many of those who are sitting there, no doubt. To make some history, look, we first put a lot of officials, 40 workers, informing people what to do to claim. Then the arbitration system was mounted at the Galician School of Public Administration. The first autonomy, by the way, that mounted it, then others who also had that problem. But at that moment it was supposed to be that they didn't want to see him and they didn't do anything. Then they all took up the Greek model, which led to a celebration of up to 520 daily audiences with the affected; 58,000 people praised recovered their money, which is two out of three people who went to the arbitral praise. I think it's a good figure, which you'll agree with. The problem is not solved, of course. Arbitration closed. Let us go to the following: Joint Committee with the High Court of Justice of Galicia, two specific judges. Then there were other autonomous communities who also did the same thing. People were also told at that time that this was a trick, just like the one about arbitration. Unfortunately, as they saw that they didn't tell them much of the truth, a lot of people have been complaining. But also if they were told that they couldn't be forced to complain, that it was a trick, that they wouldn't charge anything, that they were putting people in a series of charges that wouldn't have to put them in... look, the truth and the truth is that Galician board, 600,000 euros and 12 officials to run those judgments that still work today. Good comparison with the three officials – and Mr. Grignán was proud of this – to strengthen the judges of the ERE; 12 officials of the Galician Union to strengthen the judges of the preferences. Data, besides, from Abanca, 11,348 demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u335	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u336	...10,111 finished...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u337	Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. Mr. Sánchez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u338	Well, Mr. Rueda. When you say you look at the Banco de España, I read to you the recast text of the Galician Cash Act, article 5(b) To monitor compliance by the boxes of your economic-social function, according to an appropriate policy of administration and investment of private savings. Skills of the Business Council. Article 81: Within the framework of the basis approved by the State on the management of credit to the bank, in accordance with the guidelines of the Galician Board, the Economic and Business Council shall carry out the functions of inspecting the savings boxes domiciled in Galicia, without prejudice to the functions corresponding to it by the Banco de España. Article 83: The Galician Board, through the Business Council, shall monitor the compliance by the boxes with the set of legal rules applicable to them, both those of a basic nature and the complementary and developmental nature set out in this consolidated text. I never denied the responsibilities of the Banco de España. Confused as a rival, I think. But you didn't have any skills? What is it, Mr. Rueda? Is that what it is? This is the law of Welsh boxes. What did you guys do? Did they do any action while they were marketing these that you think are scams, the preferences and subordinates? What did they do? They didn't do anything. They looked the other way! Then you tell me about the Research Committee. We've already said that the intention of the People's Party is that it was a paripé, and time is giving us reason. Mr. Puy, you can pull whatever you want, no problem. Time is giving us reason, it's a paripé because it has no intention of clearing political responsibilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Twenty percent of the scam cases were resolved in arbitration. Of the amount of 1,800, it was 465 million euros. By the way, less than in Bankia and other savings boxes. It worked worse here, despite all those resources, than in other autonomous communities. Much worse! Finally, you did not object to me because the People's Party repressed with false complaints the activists who claimed, and came last week to demand that we continue with this issue in Parliament. We don't control electoral times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u339	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Sánchez, your time is up. Mr. Sánchez, it's not recorded. You have the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u340	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Puy wasn't nailing me, he's telling me a truth like a house, which is the responsibility of the Banco de España and the National Securities Market Commission. You can say anything. You can say that we authorize them, that we are responsible for the sale of preference and that we have done absolutely nothing to solve it. [[Murmurs.]] That's what you can say as often as you want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then he told me no, that those things never told them. Less bad than the people who collected... by the way, two out of three who went to the arbitration, charged. I don't know what data you have. Two out of three people who claimed through arbitration got a favorable award and, therefore, recovered the money. Others had to go to the courthouse. All right. I'll repeat the numbers again. Right now there are 530 pending resolutions in the specific courthouses of preference. A few more, and we've brought together the demands of all the judges of Galicia. But most of them are solved, and others, the judges will say. There's nothing else you can do. I am happy – and I am missing – for those affected in 97-98% of cases. And I hope they follow, because it is fair, will be that the judges are seeing what was there, and will agree – as I told you at first – that this was a scam. I really believe that things can always be done better, but I believe that the Board – and so it was recognized by many people and, of course, by the autonomous communities, who later copied the model – acted to solve a problem that he didn't believe in in a very diligent way, and solved, it's true, a problem to many people who didn't deserve to be defrauded by the money and that often needed that money to live. I'm glad you did. Look, I'm glad we didn't follow... and since you make textual appointments, I'll give you one. Mr. Beiras in 2013, do you know what his solution to all this problem was? He said, "If I'm in the place of the victims, I'll take a stake, put someone in the head, and then they'll put me in jail." Look, it's less bad that it wasn't our solution, less bad that it wasn't the solution of a lot of people, and less bad that today, as people are much smarter than you think, in the end, a lot got. The one who doesn't charge, and is now in Justice, may I charge you too! In any case, I'm telling you, it's very curious that one week... no, sorry, two days before the election starts -- you say it's because someone came to tell you that he had done it, and if you didn't wake up, someone asked him, if they remember again a problem that, fortunately for the people who needed it, is solved in their vast majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and five other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons for the termination of the manager of the organizational structure of integrated management, or EOXI of the health area of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u342	Mr. Losada has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u343	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, I want to start with the theoretical framework in which this question is going to be developed, reminding a little of the memories that are made in the contests of merits for the service heads arranged in Sergas, that some of them win their husband. Look, this has to do with Vigo's health situation anyway. As you well know – I'm sure you know, despite how much he smiles when he goes to the city of Vigo – Vigo's health situation is peculiar for many reasons: First, it has an important percentage –13,000 people – assigned to a hospital center of strictly private reference. Later, a public-private hospital was built. I don't care that you make a lot of press ads and a lot of posters on the university road saying it's public, that we all know it's going to cost 70 million euros a year for 20 years, when the initial construction project was 358 million euros. We also know that the Mexier Hospital literally falls to pieces, and you say it's going to be arranged, but one winter, another winter, there's moisture and, unfortunately, the situation, as you know, is arranged with an unusual slowness. I always say it's a pity that it's not the sanctuary of the Virgin of the Boat, that it was rebuilt in a record time. On the other hand, health centres, such as the center of Orillamar, are also closed, condemning the aging population of Vigo's old helmet to travel far further, to the center of Rosalía de Castro. The Bouzas health center is not built, when it went to its program and when the Town Hall made available the solar in which it had to be built. And finally, in the case of the lab, we're witnessing an absolutely unexpected situation, in which professionals themselves argue that the central laboratory of a hospital complex has to be in the center that receives the entrance of critics. I'm not a doctor, but this is almost common sense. It is also true that the clearly offensive statement by the German Government and yourself was that these lab professionals both in microbiology, hematology and clinical analysis protested because what they really wanted was a new office. This is the context, Counselor. If you've said so, the establishment, the ceasefire, finally, in that marabunta of smiles that characterized Vigo's health area for a month, about four months ago. And he was told that the theoretical framework, Counsellor, is the following – two recent headlines this same week – "It reinforces control over health spending, which absorbs 40% of the budget, and venture capital is launched by the health sector." Counsellor, here we have been saying that undoubtedly UTE, formed by Actiona and some other companies, is doing a great deal of business on behalf of citizens' taxes and health. I hope you don't come to me with socialists attacking professional efforts. This has nothing to do with the professional effort, it has to do with the government's political decisions Feijóo, referendums...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u344	Thank you, Mr. Losada. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u345	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. The truth is, when you asked the written question, I was wondering about the manager's departure. Now you see that you're no longer interested, which I'm very glad, that you're not interested, because you recognize that this is a normal change in public administration. Mix yourself, as always, what is the work of Vigo's new and public hospital; hospital that I once again invite you to visit, since you keep saying it's small, and of course I think it's there to see it, with which, there's no doubt that it's not small but that it's a big hospital and a hospital about everything that's going to be very useful for Vigo's citizenship. It's a hospital with a total surface area of 280,000 square meters, five times as much as the General Hospital has today. It has 1,465 hospital beds, it has 22 incoming surgical surgeries, it has an in vitro fertilization room, it has 12 delivery units, it has 2 emergency surgeries and 5 special rooms, it has 62 video diagnostic rooms, 150 multichannel consultation sites and a large multichannel consultation area, it has an emergency area that doubles the current one, plus those of the Mexoneiro and General, it has teaching and research areas – which you also said you didn't have it – it has parking area, daycare, etc. And, of course, he's going to have a lab, as it can't be otherwise, that's going to respond, without any doubt, to the needs of the southern area of Vigo. Of course, he's going to have a big lab that's going to answer all this. But besides, in the area of Vigo we've made many more investments all this time. At the General Hospital itself, 1.2 million euros were invested, 1.6 in equipment. At the new hospital we're going to invest more than 45 million euros in equipment. To say, of course, that the Vigo area is being discriminated against is to absolutely miss the truth, and you know, in addition, Mr. Losada, because you know it quite well. A health centre was built in San Paio de Navia, with an investment of 4.4 million euros, and an equipment of more than 220,000 euros. The facilities of the lavador health centre, of almost 364,000 euros, have also been improved, and are currently building in the integral management structure in the area of Vigo the health centers of Gondomar, Panxón-Nigran, Santa Maria de Oia and Tui, with a total investment of more than 11 million. And if you did the transfer from the center of Beiramar to the center of Rosalía, because two floors of the center of Rosalía were empty; a center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u346	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Losada's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u347	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, in fact, in six years they made a health center in a city of 300,000 inhabitants, congratulations! By the way, the health center that has already been built up, as you know, and if you don't say here that's not true. Look, I'm actually talking about the manager's replacement. I want to know if it's true what the new manager said, and if it ceases and resigns the previous one has to do with this, because Mr. Rubial has just said that he admits uncertainties on the start dates of surgery and that the waiting lists will be increased in the transfer, and even today it is said that Fairy cancels the EUR 20 million contest to equip the laboratory. So, I'd like to know not only where you're going to be, but what you're going to do with these analyses, it's not like we're finally hiring a private company to do the analyses that you're not going to be able to do that lab, that you've just been out of the competition, because it's either a lie about when you're going to start the hospital after that kind of pilgrimage... I appreciate your invitation to see you. Luckily, I live in Coia, I go to the Cuvi and I see him every day. What I see is also where you put it: UTE, Actoa-Puentes S.A. I see everything, it's the advantage. I'm short-sighted, but with the glasses I see the two things, and I see the huge poster in which you spent a lot of money all over Vigo putting "Vigo Public Hospital." Look, when you have to repeat it so much, it's for something. Then I want you to tell me something, Counsellor, I want you to tell me what it means, if it's so public: "the new concessionary society Vigo Hospital S.A", the new, operating society New Vigo Hospital, S.A."... Don't many anonymous societies seem to you? And, by the way, fifteen months of delay. With what penalty, Counselor? With zero penalty, as you well know, a small gift, it's almost nothing! What balance sheet does that hospital appear as immobilized in this society or in Sergas? I'm not a doctor. I'm an economist. Ask them that, if you don't know, their technicians, because it appears in the account balance as immobilized material of the New Vigo Hospital Concessionary Society. It doesn't contain any milongs to get there and say the hospital is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u349	Mr. Losada, for us it's public, we received it the other day. Not to be public, we're going to sign the reception act... not to be public, Mr. Losada, we're going to invest a lot of money to make the investment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not to be public, you yourself recognize, Mr. Losada, that we've got a competition for the lab; that is, there's going to be a lab, and we've got a contest. Not to be public, Mr. Losada, the truth is that you give a lot of data that the hospital is the Galego Health Service, that the professionals are the Galego Health Service, that the manager who will make the transfer has named it the Galego Health Service and, of course, I think it's the best decision we've made. Evidently Dr. Mario González left for personal reasons. Dr. Mario González has been replaced by what we think is the best bet to do right now in Vigo: move the entire hospital... Mrs. Acuña, he's going to transfer the hospital in time and form. During this summer all the professionals of the Galego Health Service will go to the new hospital, and Vigo patients will be cared for by the professionals of the Galego Health Service at the public hospital in Vigo. The Mexoeiro hospital. Mr. Losada, by the way, this winter didn't rain, and you didn't recognize me that it didn't rain in the Mexoneiro hospital; that is, something we did so it wouldn't rain... we fixed the hospital... [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u350	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u351	What I mean is that the hospital was settled like I said it was going to be fixed. So, if this year's not rained, it's that he settled the hospital, I say, because he just doesn't fix himself; that's to say, he arranged the hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u352	Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u353	Look, Dr. Rubial, as I say, is the best bet the Galego Health Service could do for Vigo's health; he's a magnificent professional, perfectly recognized inside and familiar with health care as no one within the Galego Health Service, both for his professional trajectory and for his training and information. [[Murmurs.]] And a very important fact: he took part in a very relevant role in the last two transfers, both from the hospital of Santiago and the hospital of Lugo; that is, he has a perfect training and preparation to do what needs to be done, which is immediately the transfer and put into operation the new public hospital of Vigo. And, of course, we can say that this year 2015 Vigo's health area will have a public hospital for the most modern in Europe, located in the technological vanguard, which will assist professionals in the Galician Health Service and offer it in the best conditions, and led by a great manager, Dr. Ruibal, has no doubt, Mr. Losada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u354	Thank you very much. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the start-up of the recruitment programme of persons who perceive Galician social integration income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u355	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez to ask the question. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Gallego, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Labour and Welfare Counsellor, the Government of Greece, convinced as we are, that employment is the best tool for combating exclusion, betting on linking social inclusion policies with labour policies, betting on an active inclusion; therefore, in 2004, it first approved a specific order for the recruitment of people who perceive the risk through the councils. The aim of this order was to promote a mechanism to facilitate access to a job for people at risk of exclusion. This order was allocated in 2014 a total of 5 million euros, and in the 2015 budgets you announced that it will increase by 100% that budget and that it will reach up to 10 million euros. That's why we consider today that, after the end of 2014 and that investment of 5 million euros – and now this new year 10 million euros – we would like you to give us an assessment of the implementation of this program, the councils that participated and the results of it. For now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u357	Thank you. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato Otero, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u358	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the truth is that for the Galician Union it is an absolute priority to include, and above all to put all our efforts to help those people who need it most in these difficult times of crisis. That was our commitment throughout the legislation and also from the past legislation, but we did it as we understood that we should do so, not only paying attention to the basic needs, but also fighting about the active inclusion, that is, direct linkage, with a help that somehow allows the insertion into the labour market of these people, because we are convinced that it is the best guarantee to get them to abandon that situation, and above all and most importantly, that there is no chronicity of that situation. So, in fact, we have taken several steps firmly towards this active inclusion, that is to say, to link inclusion to employment policies, but, if it is true, the one that mentions you from an order that was pioneering in 2014, which was the order of recruiting people of social integration income; an order that would not be possible to develop if it was not enough to be for collaboration and the help of the municipalities, and that actually gave them opportunity since last year, from the year 2014 until now 2015, to which about 620 people would benefit from social integration income worked, in addition, subject to a labor agreement, the Convention of the Council itself, in various functions that the Council gave them. And in this case those 620 people were distributed in 120 municipalities, with an investment, as you said, of 5 million euros. The truth is that the evaluation from the Government of Galicia's Board of Governors was made through the report that brought all the mayors and all the concierge who work with social inclusion on the benefit that I assumed not only the work done by these people but for these people themselves their own dignity and their recovery from the illusion by having the opportunity to work for seven months. And so our evaluation has been positive, so we're moving all the municipalities, and so we're getting committed to this year 2015. And the commitment, as it couldn't be otherwise, was to double our efforts, and so we've reached a 100 percent increase until we have even EUR 10 million now in a summons in which 205 municipalities are presenting themselves. They are 205 municipalities, i.e., more than there were in last call – therefore, it was a positive order – which will give 1,000 people a chance that 1,000 people of social integration income will have for seven months a labor opportunity strictly subject to the working agreement that is in force in the Council at its moment. It is a pleasure for me to say that with this investment and with the requests that have been submitted –205 municipalities that will cover 1,00 beneficiaries – we will respond to all the municipalities that have requested help; that is, all the municipalities that have applied for this contract.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u359	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u360	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u361	Mrs. Rodríguez Arias' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u362	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Sixty-sixty people working, 120 municipalities working together, together with the Galician Union, so these people who get the Risk can have a job contract, this year 2014. And you're telling us that now 100 percent of the budget is increased by 10 million euros, in which more than 205 municipalities will participate, and 1,000 people who perceive the risk will be able to have a job contract. The truth, from our point of view, is to bet on people and above all bet on people who need it most, people who are at risk of social exclusion and people who are receiving a Risk of Unity from Galicia. Of course, I think we need to keep moving in that area and the German Government is doing it. We think it is essential to increase budgets for social inclusion, as has just been done by your advice; it is essential to collaborate with the municipalities, because they are the first entry door for these people; it is essential to wager – as you say – an active inclusion linked to employment, because there is no better tool to fight social exclusion than employment; and also to facilitate access to a job for these people at risk of social exclusion. Of course, we will ask you again in this Parliament about the results of this programme in 2015 and hopefully at least double the beneficiaries and duplicate the municipalities that worked during 2014. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u363	The work and well-being advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u364	Thank you very much, President. I think it's significant that if in 2014 the call for 120 municipalities were presented, 205 were now the municipalities. I mean, it's more people who believe in this tool, it's more people who know the reality of their county, it's more people who know the situation in which different people from their county are found; and, therefore, they themselves, those 205 municipalities, of all political colors, have asked to be able to collaborate with this active inclusion tool to help chronicize and that the situation of many people is not chronicled, which – as I said – will now be about 1,000 in this call. It is important for me to emphasize that this is an action that, in fact, was a pioneer in the state; it is the first time that a tool like this is put in Galicia and even in the state. But it's not an isolated action, it doesn't obey an option thought at a given time, but it obeys a strategy that's perfectly defined from this board since minute one, which is to believe that there's no better social policy than employment. This belief leads us to the fact that, with the agreement of social agents, with the agreement of trade unions and employers, we can bring forward a new law of social inclusion which seeks not only to meet the basic needs but also to direct all these people towards the labour market through the various measures we have. That new law was also a law of the first in our country, and of course it goes to what we believe is the main social policy that exists, that is employment. And, as I said, it's not an isolated action, nor the order by which you are not even interested in the law itself, because we are defining right now and approving with the consensus of all entities working with social exclusion the new strategy of social inclusion in Galicia for the coming years, until 2020, which is our road map, through an active inclusion. And, above all, it also fights against exclusion – sometimes not only because of poverty but also because of territorial exclusion – which consists of 300 measures and consists of 521 million euros committed to the assumptions of the Greeks and the Greeks precisely for something that we consider to be priority, which is to care for the people who are worst going through it, but as we understand that we must do it, which is through employment. This commitment, of course, was ratified year after year through the Galician Board in its budget, where even in 2015 we were able to increase by 17.7 % the comprehensive budget for all inclusion, reaching 70 million euros, to respond to the income of social integration, to emergency aid, to the aid to the entities that work and know the social reality of many people who are going through it, and above all to be able to develop in the area of employment this program of what you were talking about. We made a positive assessment. I'm convinced that the valuation we're going to make, also in 2015, will be positive. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u365	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia in relation to the judicial rulings concerning the prohibition of the development of the Pescanova project for the construction of an aquaculture plant in Cape Turin, in the municipality of Muxía
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u366	You have the word, Mr. Balsairo, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u367	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, the Supreme Court's Dispute-Administrative Chamber has just confirmed the decision of the High Court of Justice that obliges the Autonomic Administration to grant compensation to the Insuña company, S.L., which exceeds EUR million; compensation for prohibiting the development of an aquaculture plant in the Tourignan cable, in Muxia. The Popular Parliamentary Group, Counsellor – and you know it well – has always been very critical of the decision of the two-party Government to cancel this placement which, in practice, subject to the loss of the investment planned for the construction of which was projected as one of the largest aquaculture facilities in Galicia, and which ended up leaving the neighbouring country of Portugal, losing that investment and losing employment opportunities for this coupled industry. Fortunately, today the Greeks put their democratic vote on that Bipartite in its place, in the opposition, and waged by a government responsible for the People's Party, which, in times of economic difficulty, has an absolutely different aquatic strategy, which is committed to legal security, to the sustainability and environmental balance, to employment opportunities and also to wealth, and which will fight to maintain the leadership that we have lost, Counsellor, aquaculture in our country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's not possible to go back, because there are things that are irrevocable. But the Greeks have to continue to bear the consequences of a bad bipartisan government – I would say – to Galicia. So the question that this honourable Member is asking you is: Counsellor, what assessment does the German Government make of these judicial pronouncements? [[Murmurs.]] It's true that I already know you're upset with this; I know that you've been so upset that you've been able to expel the investments from our country and send them to the neighbouring country. How come you won't bother them? And now there's a sentence that tells them that, in addition, all Greeks have to pay for their mistakes and their bad policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u368	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Let's see, I suppose this side and these Members also have the right to speak. So, listen, please, with respect to everyone. They respect the use and speaking shifts. You have the word of the Counselor of the Middle Rural and Sea to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u369	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, as you well say, the decision to leave without effect the possibility of carrying forward the installation of the Touriñan aquaculture plant brought not only the loss of investment and employment but also a compensation of nearly 1.1 million euros. Moreover, some of these decisions should also be attributed to the same consequences in relation to the project that was to be carried out in Rinlo, Ribadeo, and that in exchange for employment and production it leaves us more than 700,000 euros of compensation. Thus, both Supreme Court judgements bring the consequences of a sequence of two decisions taken in the years 2006 and 2008. So, with the June 22, 2006, Agreement, it was ordered to initiate the review and modification procedures of that vigil Sectoral Plan of Aquaculture. At that time, it is decided to suspend the efficiency of processing of projects which, within the framework of this project, should be installed in spaces integrated into the Natura 2000 Network, as was the case with Tourinñan in Rinlo. And this decision ended on August 28, 2008 with the approval of the Greek Aquaculture Plan. Since then, by virtue of these two decisions, the sectoral plan and the project of supra-municipal impact that had been authorized for Tourinñan, and it has been substantially modified or approved for Rinlo. In other words, the inability of the execution of the Insuña and Acuinor projects, as a result of the subsequent actions of the Union, gives compensation rights to these companies which translate mainly into the costs incurred for obtaining and approving these sectoral projects. In this sense, I believe it is necessary to clarify two questions relating to the imputation to this government of responsibility for these judgments on the basis of the lack of the Declaration of Environmental Impact and its alleged absence of appeal by the current Government. In this regard, I would like to make it clear two things: the first, the Supreme Court itself admits in its judgment the third and fourth legal bases: that the Declaration of Environmental Impact must be carried out. But he points out that the said procedure could be healed or at least they could survive the projects already approved in order to carry them out later. Second, the Board came before the High Court of Justice of Galicia and the Supreme Court defending its position. And to believe this, we just have to read the court's own judgement and see that of the 17.5 million compensation claims we've reached 1.9 million euros. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u370	Thank you. Mr. Balsairo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u371	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your clarifications, for the clarifications provided, and also for acting with responsibility, not as previous governments. But there is a question here, Counselor, and I say, was there no one to warn the Bipartisan Government of this dangerous behavior for Galician interests? Yes, Mrs. Peace, it was you, too, and I often warned you there in the gallery of Parliament and you didn't listen. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] And now we have a sentence that tells us that the jokes of that two-party government will cost all the Greeks and all the Greeks about two million euros. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u372	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u373	Have a little respect not for what we're here anymore, but for what you have to pay those 2 million euros, who are out of here, man! Have some respect. [[Murmurs.]] Have a little respect... and you know how to listen, at least, man! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because of the wrong policies, because of the terrible aquaculture policy that this Member has denounced and which has denounced this parliamentary group many times the only thing they have done is to expel companies to Portugal... [[Applause]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u374	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u375	...to create jobs in Portugal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u376	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u377	...to create wealth in Portugal, and now... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u378	Second call, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u379	...the Greeks and the Greeks have to pay 2 million euros for that policy. You must be proud not to let talk... so they put them where they have to put them. [[Interruptions.]] You follow them, they're gonna put them... you know where they're gonna put them? They're gonna put us out of here now. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u380	Replica from the councilor of the Middle Rural and the Sea, if they let her speak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u381	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know why you get so nervous about the bench I've got behind, because... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u382	Quiet, please! [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Acuña, do you have any? Please do it! You don't have the word, because I don't remember giving it to you. Therefore, you have the word of counsel. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u383	The truth is, it's funny that now this whole revolution... and some of the other Members left the sentence said that it should be the Feijó himself who bore the money of this sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u384	Mr. Gallego! He's got two calls to order. If you want the third... And Mrs. Acuña, too, please shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u385	No, the scandal is to know that there was a previous report from the Juridical Counsel for the Board that said that "even if it is not the subject of this report, it must be contemplated that the exercise of the power concerned can lead to situations that give rise to certain compensations, if we understand that the agreement in question is not the right place to establish compensation mechanisms on specific situations, and when they occur, the time to claim them." I mean, when the decision to paralyze these projects was made, it was known that compensation was necessarily going to be produced and, nevertheless, it was shot forward when you could quietly let you develop the projects, because they were perfectly viable projects, which were within the scope of the action of the aquaculture plan that there was at that time and that was a way of understanding Galicia's need, like... well, because we're playing with the money of all the Greeks, it doesn't matter, we don't like this plan, we're going to make another plan, we're rejecting investments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Balsairo, for your tranquillity, you know that we continue to seek legal security so that aquaculture projects can be developed in Galicia. In view of this compensation that was claimed from EUR 17.5 million, we managed to reduce it to EUR 1.9, and in addition, we have now, in the near future, installed in the industrial estate of Cervo, an aquaculture plant that will generate 25 direct jobs, 50 indirect jobs and an investment of EUR 24 million. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u386	Thank you very much. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the evaluation of the Galician Board of Data published by the INE in relation to the ageing of the agrarian population
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u387	You have the floor, Mr. Sánchez, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u388	Only in compensation between the counties of Mine and Sanxenxo do multiply by 20 euros. Governored by the PP. [[Applause]] The news is it doesn't rain on the Mexeiro, the news is it's news it doesn't rain on the Mexeiroiro, that's indeed a third-partyist. [[Laughter]] Congratulations. The data published by the National Institute of Statistics at the end of 2014, Counsellor, corresponding to the year 2013, on the structure of the Greek agricultural holdings, show a worrying aging of the agricultural population. The data previously published are from 2007 and between these two years have passed the following: the number of agricultural holdings has fallen from 88,000 to 79,000, almost 9,000 farms, at an annual rate of 1.65%. There is also an ageing phenomenon, since the number of landowners under 40 years of age was in 2007 of 7,261 people and 6 years later is 3,640. Young people under 40 years of age represented 8.5% of the agricultural population in 2007 and 4.68% in 2013. On the other hand, those aged 60 and those aged 60 are now 51% to 59%. Almost 60% of landowners are over 60 years old, Counsellor. The useful agrarian surface has also dropped nearly 100,000 hectares, and for the first time in many years, it also lowers the useful agrarian surface by exploitation. This is an unpublished fact in many years. Well, these data talk about the effects of the People's Party's policies on agriculture; rather, or their absence, the lack of will or the lack of ability to change this reality. The fact is that the results are there, they are causing the destruction of agriculture and rural areas through a kind of covert conversion. They show that there are a lot of people in agrarian activity who are simply waiting to retire and that young people either don't get involved, even though they're in times of crisis and looking for work solutions, or they don't get involved or fail in their attempt. We asked you what will happen in five or six years, Counsellor, with this data, what will happen if you are not aware of the gravity of the situation and radically change policies? How do you value this data, Counselor? What will you do to change this reality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u389	Thank you. The Middle Rural and Sea Councilwoman, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u390	Mr. Sánchez, I am grateful for your question as to how much you have this initiative of concern about a problem this executive has been dealing with since he arrived at the responsibility of carrying the government task forward. I say this because your concern is repeated, since less than 15 days ago I was asking the same question within Commission 7th, without the fact that – you will understand correctly – little can change the answer that I can give you with respect to the one already offered at that time. Since last April 24th, the director-general himself was making it fincapé data that testify that this aging process is common to all of Europe and North America, and that it is one of the key demographic phenomena in our society's future evolution. In particular, and reaching the competence of this council and the consequences of this demographic change on the agricultural sector, I have to reiterate the issues raised in this committee. It has to be said that the agricultural sector is not alien to the general situation: the decline in the birth rate linked to the fact that the smallest number of young people in existence preferred other professions and work areas have made the general level of incorporation into agriculture, maintained for decades, if it has diminished. In this way, and despite all the incentives offered by the administrations, there has not been a generational relief that was previously traditional, having to see this issue in relation to two key elements for us, such as the productive capacity of our agriculture and the provision of incentives to settle in the rural hands of agricultural activity. In this sense, we see how the fundamental issues of our agricultural activity have not only not lost capacity but have even been won by it, serve as an example of the dairy sector, where the fall in farms has not been obliging for an increase in production. Since then, we are and we are following that line of sustaining productive capacity and encouraging the settlement of young people and girls in rural areas, correcting possible cases that they had the help and encouraging other measures that support these lines. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u391	Thank you. Mr. Sánchez García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u392	Counsellor, the worst thing about not solving the problems is not taking them and not being honest in the analysis. I also told the director general of agricultural production that when compared to the general demographic crisis, it's missing the truth, it's distorting the data. Look, the demographic crisis in this country is very serious: the inhabitants of this country have fallen to 17,000 in the last year, it was the worst record year of the last 20 years; 17,000. In spite of this, that means a decrease of 0.6%. The 6-year decline in the agricultural population was 10%, 1.65%, and doubled – almost triple – the demographic rate of this country. So it's not just a mechanical translation of what's going on with demography in this country, which is already very serious, and it's already a fault of the lack of expectations in this country as well. And the other lie is that it's not comparable to other countries in Europe and North America, Counselor. Not true, I've already given the data to the CEO of Agricultural Production. It's not true, it's no match, Counselor. There has been a 50% decline in the population of landowners under 40 years of age. 50% in six years, Counselor! We have 60% of the agricultural population over the age of 60 and in five years we are expected to retire many of these 60%, which means nearly 50,000 farm owners, Counsellor. This isn't a joke, Counselor, it's not a joke. If he doesn't admit the problem, it's impossible to solve it. How will the demographic evolution of Galicia compare to the evolution of the agrarian population? There's no comparison! 50% of farmers under 40 have disappeared in six years, Counsellor, and you don't admit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u393	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u394	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, I'm not saying that he doesn't admit the problem, quite the contrary, but what I don't want is that he's calling us to be the cause of that problem. Look, we've been trying to improve all the lines of help for incorporating young people into these activities, we, in the new rural development program in the EAFRD, propose more money for incorporating young people, which can be paid twice the help, which can be taken to the aid of the first and second piar. But, look, what you can't be constantly moving negative messages about the rural sector and then pretending that people will want to work in rural areas. I keep the positive part and I can tell you with real data, without hiding reality, without understanding... Mr. Sánchez, understanding that it is necessary for us to continue promoting that people go to work in rural areas, not only to live but to work in rural areas. And for that I'm telling you, look, it increased the average agricultural area used by exploitation, it increased from 3.6 to 8.15 hectares. [[Murmurs.]] In the dairy sector it is true that farms have decreased, but the average production per holding has increased by 213% and the number of cows per holding has increased by 55%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the wine sector, wine exports have increased by 18.7% since 2008. The wine production increased by 20.4%. In the forest sector, the joint billing of the first transformation has increased by 12.7 % since 2013. Ecological agriculture has tripled its billing since 2008. The autochthonous races increased. The increase in income per person employed... in case the graph does not look right. [[Murmurs.]] Income improvement per person in the field has also increased. These are the data that we have to highlight, Mr. Sánchez, if we really want our youth to understand that viable and sustainable projects can be developed in the rural world. If what we want to say is we bet on the countryside, but what we really want is to discourage people from going to the countryside, they go on that line. We will follow the other, saying that there are possibilities in rural areas, that projects can be developed and that each of these projects, of course, is bearing fruit. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u395	Thank you very much. Question by D. Daniel Rodas Chapela and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions carried out by the Government of Greece to request the amendment of the fishing agreement with Portugal which allows the fishing fleet of that country to re-fish on the weekend
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u396	You have the word, Mr. Rhodes, to ask your question. [[Shut up.]] Give Mr. Rhodes a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u397	Good afternoon, Counselor. After a decade, February 16, 2013 signed the fishing agreement with Portugal, collecting the historical demand of the sector, this was equal fishing conditions that the Portuguese fleet, the same as they did not fish at the weekend. This agreement was applauded by the sector, the People's Party itself raised a question to this House where Mr. Balsairo had the opportunity to brush it conveniently for such magnificent management. The bad thing was that three months later, behind the back of the sector, Arias Cañete and his Portuguese counterpart modified the agreement, returning the light fleet to be able to fish with advantage in our own waters. The situation that was denounced by the BNG, which you voted against, and which forced the sector to appear in this House to make them stand firm, in order to be able to look them in the face and thus get them to support a non-law proposition in which we all demand equal treatment. Since then we know nothing about what you've done. Yes, we have repeatedly heard the Secretary-General of the Sea recognizing the situation of discrimination and moving his commitment to the sector, that, indeed, this time they would do something, that they were in it. But year and a half later the situation is what it is: it is that it is allowed in our own waters other ships to fish on the weekend when we rest, that the quotas of our fleet are absolutely ridiculous compared to the Portuguese ones, that with these quotas we waste our fleet on a delitiva activity, with controls where the fleet feels tanked, feeling like thieves while we go fishing. They, they saturate our markets, they can use forbidden arts. They send us the most qualified crews because they get better wages and they don't feel persecuted. The situation of the trawl fleet exemplifies the tragedy of fishing in our country: our own fishing fleet in conditions far below the fleet of another country. Because, Counselor, this means better competitive advantages, higher incomes and a better future for others, while our fleet has reserved Brussels, with its convolence and its government, is the abandonment of activity and is the waste. I suppose just as I did the management of the fishing agreement, today you will assume the responsibility of explaining in this House what management has done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u398	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. [[Mr. Rodas Chapel pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Middle Rural and Sea Councilwoman, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u399	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rhodes, as you should know, the agreement signed at the end of 2013 has a two-year vigil, with which at the end of 2015 it will expire and then its content may vary, since the complexity of elements that regulate and the diversity of fleets and interests did not make its variation affordable in the short term, as there are also positive aspects for other Greek fleets. In this regard, we have been working with the industry for more than a year now to bring to bear the role of the proposal which you pointed out and which Parliament has brought to us, which can be summed up in the provision of an equal framework for the conditions of activity of all the fleets included in this agreement, including several Galicians. To that end, he is working, as he said, alongside the sector and, thanks to the work of the Galician Federation of Brotherhoods and the associations of the sector, the consideration of this need has already been achieved by the National Federation of Brotherhoods and by the Andalusian Federation. In addition, the General Secretariat for Fisheries is aware of this need and with this objective also works on the preparation of a new agreement, already in July 2014, within the Luso-Spanish Committee for Fisheries. In addition, these work continued with the approach to the position and demands of the sector at meetings held in Madrid and Lisbon in March and April of this year, in which representatives of the German sector participated, among which were also those of the trawlers of the coast. At these meetings, the range of elements that intervene in the agreement and the so-called diversity of fleets make it difficult to advance, as Galicia not only targets this stop of the trawl fleet at the end of the week, but other issues such as the removal – which you well know – of so-called poachers in the area of the cross-border agreement or the improvement of the authorizations for the siege. In the same way, other arguments and measures are also being found in the internal market that could allow themselves to reach that equal framework, such as the establishment of daily discharge and marketing quotas or the opening of censuses for access or drag on water from Portugal. In any case, working on this route was neither oblivious to adopting those measures that would allow for the possible strengthening of a control which tended to be equal between the fleets of the trawler, among which the Portuguese fleet's impossibility of unloading in Spain on weekends, unless the fish was destined for sale or processing outside Spain. This equal matching of landing times or an approval of controls during garden campaigns are steps along that path, but we know that the final step can be reached in the new agreement. In that line we work and we're going to do it together with the sector, because it's about moving forward in the negative without losing what positive it has for other galley fleets. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u400	Thank you, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. Rodas Chapela's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u401	Before the justification was that the agreement was ten years long, now that it is two years long. The reality is they've been losing years and a half with promises, but they've been allowing us to have discriminatory conditions for more than six years. A boat, he said earlier, [...] if it's German has a 100-tonn yard quota, while if it's luscious it has a 40-tonn quota per week. But we could see discrimination with respect to other quotas of other species as they could be the cock, rap or metha. The reality is that the quotas we have are totally inexhaustible. We, Counselor, scarce quotas, them greater fishing possibilities. They can fish at the weekend and we don't, and what for us is a measure that improves the living conditions of the sailors and obliges the fleets to huddle near the base port and rest the locker, for them not. They can faenenar wherever they want along the entire coast, we are subjected to the base port by weekly rest. As we go fishing, they're the first to get to the sale. They can even use the cake train, forbidden in our legislation. So it's no wonder we're without crews, we're running out of sailors for low incomes, the best patterns for the best conditions in the Portuguese fleet, and we're late for sale, and we're getting the worst prices. They turned our fishing activity into an illegal, criminal activity. We don't have quota, we can't fish, we have to steal pending inspections and controls, while other fleets on the contrary, they can faen with total quiet, they download wherever they want and the controls become routines. But, on the other hand, if we're champions, it's in sanctions. We have the biggest sanctions of 15,000 and 16,000 euros on a ship of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. [[Applause]] Replica from the Counselor of the Middle Rural and the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u403	President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rhodes, the truth is that it hurts me to hear from you certain qualifications that you use for the sector. To say he moved, to make the sector a delitive sector, that seems to me to think twice about it and ask the president to withdraw those words from the Journal of Sessions. [[Applause]] To say that we're pursuing the sector, that we're running through inspections the sector... you, who come from the coast guard service, I think it's something that already causes any way of thinking and saying that everything is good in this sector, and the truth is, it's not. You must recognize that TACs and quotas have nothing to do with the agreement with Portugal, that the TACs and quotas of the Portuguese fleet have to do with the distribution that is made in the month of Christmas in Brussels. In agreements of 28 countries, depending on the fleet each country has and on the fishing distribution at that time at the Council of Ministers in Brussels, the country in question is touched by TACs and quotas for fleets and others are touched by us. To say that now we're going to pretend that our fleet is back on weekends is that you, of course, are no longer in reality in the sector. Tell the sector they want to make it back to the weekend. Not anymore, Mr. Rhodes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That was a war of the 1990s, that's over. Here the activity as we have to carry it is as it is taking: with an increase year after year of billing, with an increase year after year of discharges, trying to get all the fleets to work in the same way, that there is no unfair competition between countries that we are all members of the European Union. To say that we're penalizing the sector, it seems to me that you're out of place, of course, saying such an aberration. To also say that we've been years and a half of promises is to miss the truth. We made an agreement that once lasted ten years, and that once signed was unmovable for ten years, to a two-year agreement that allows you to change possible corrections that can be made. And the deal doesn't just have to do with the drag, the deal covers a lot of fleets, and there are many who have come to favor this deal with Portugal. So we have to appreciate how positive this agreement has, and we have to work on improving those difficulties between the Portuguese drag and the Greek drag. This is being done and done this year and a half – that you say only false promises – of work together with the sector here in Galicia and then in Portugal, always accompanied by the sector, knowing what the needs of the sector are and defending the drag exactly like any other way of fishing, not how certain people in the Galician Nationalist Block, who on the one hand criticize the drag and then come to Parliament. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-06-DSPG109.u404	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Out of order on the day session wakes up. Thank you very much and good night.
