ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u1	I would like to inform you that Members and Members of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group have requested, by register number 38190, to amend and approve agenda item 1 of the election of candidates for the coverage of three vacancies of members of the Galician Council of Auditors. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote this proposal to amend the agenda. We vote. Vote for the amendment of the agenda and the approval of point 1 of the election of candidates for the coverage of three vacancies of members of the Galician Board of Auditors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes in favour, 6; abstentions,17. The voting is positive. This request for amendment of the agenda is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u2	We continue the development of the session with the next of the points, which is the legislative text. Debates and votes on the opinion drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law on Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u3	The amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and those of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative are kept for the plenary. The President of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, Marta Rodríguez Arias, has the floor for the Commission's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u4	Thank you, Madam President. The Proposal for a Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminal Sick Persons, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 23 June 2014 and qualified in the same Bureau by the Galician Parliament. Following its consideration at its plenary meeting on 2 December 2014, the Bureau, at its meeting on 9 December 2014, heard the Speakers' Meeting, agreed to its proceedings by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulated, which ended on 16 February 2015, with the formulation of a total of 110 amendments: 15 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, 21 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 40 of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left, 6 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 28 of the People's Parliamentary Group. For its part, the Presidency was designated at the Commission meeting on 5th and 4th March, and is composed of the following keynote speakers: Mr. Santalices Viera, Mrs. Acuña do Campo, Mrs. Solla Fernández, Mrs. Prado Cores and Ms. Martínez García, and it was constituted on 8 April. After six more meetings, the report was finished on 2 June. Subsequently, the Commission 5th, at its meeting on 11 June, approved the dictatorship, whose articulated text consists of the exposition of motives and of 30 articles grouped into 5 titles in relation to the general provision: "Rights of persons before the death process", "Debts and rights of health professionals and health professionals", "Guarantees of health centres and institutions" and "Infringements and sanctions". And its final part is incorporated into an additional provision on the dissemination and promotion of the law and three final provisions on regulatory development, the new functions of ethics committees and the entry into force of this law, if so, which will be effective the month following its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. It is therefore now necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote on the amendments that have been maintained and with the opinion of the committee I have just tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u5	Thank you very much. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship, and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Ponence of this Law of guarantees for terminally ill people was, by my experience since I am in this Parliament, the most constructive debate, where there was a real willingness to come to agreements and to shape a law that had served us for all and for all, something that really reflects, is that the only thing that really makes us equal is death. To die, we will all die, sickness and pain are common to all, and that is why the sensitivity shown by the People's Party, which does not normally show in any other area. We have just seen it with the tremendous spectacle that has just been given in this House, a show of co-chemistry of two political parties that ends up determining the work of this House, nullifying a full unilaterally. It's a shame, but, well, it's not strange to me, after reading also the Bill to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House, where the Socialist Party endeavours to follow this engagement tense with the People's Party and thus maintain the status of two single parties ruling and nullifying the possibilities and voices of the rest of the people. A real democratic scandal that we've been accustomed to by both parties of the regime. But despite the good work of the Phoenician Parliament, I have kept some of the amendments because I consider it important to reflect on them. The first amendment, Amendment No 1, I keep it because it aims to record as the object of the law the obligations of the personnel serving the people in terminal situations and the guarantees that institutions must provide in the death process. The amendment was rejected by the People's Party, but the People's Party itself, in its amendment 2, says textually: "This law will apply to personnel involved in health care, both in public and private centres." Therefore, if the medical staff who treats terminally ill persons apply this law to them, the law must collect that it is intended to lay down the obligations of the staff, as well as the guarantees that the institutions must provide. We also maintain Amendment 5, which seeks to establish the guarantees that when a terminally ill person rejects palliative treatments, this decision was not adopted under undue pressure to respond to interests outside the terminally ill person. The people we've been working on in the field of health know that many times... I personally have experienced experiences of, "to see if you hold it alive until the notary comes," for example. Or even families who are simply unable to accept the death of a relative who try to convince him to refuse palliative treatment. It is therefore important for us to see whether the decision to refuse or affect palliative treatment has been taken freely. We also maintain point 3 of Amendment 11, a partial amendment which seeks to establish the criterion that medical personnel should follow when they have to decide between two opposite decisions: on the one hand, the decision of a minor emancipated, aged 16 years old, who decides that he is in the terminal phase of his life and makes a decision concerning palliative treatment, and that of his progenitors, who can make the opposite decision. In this sense, the text of the Pénencia says that persons under or under 16 will give their consent personally, but that the parents will be informed and that their opinion will be taken into account when making a decision. What's not said is what opinion prevails. How far should the opinion of the parents be taken into account? Because the boy's opinion counts, too. It's said that the minor is the one who makes the decision. If the minor makes the decision, but you have to take into account the opinion of the parents, in case these two opinions are contrary, what should the staff do optionally? I think it's something that the law should give to the optional staff, and which, therefore, should always override the minor's decision, since, moreover, we have to understand that it's very difficult for the parents to decide that their son is finished and that he should end somehow by deciding that it's over. So you just move into the law a very difficult decision for the health personnel. Amendment No. 12 we've also kept it. It aims to ensure that everyone in the terminal phase of his life can know his rights and make use of them. The People's Party rejected this amendment by arguing that the technological measures that will be made available to citizens will already make it possible for everyone to leave their decision established in the declaration of advance wishes. But the People's Party does not seem to take into account that this evolution that everyone has made the declaration of anticipated wills will be given in a time, that it will not do everyone in the first month, that we live in a very aged country, with a larger population that will not cover the little paper of last wills, or of anticipated wills, and also in an area where the Internet connection does not reach much of the territory. So we think that if you're making an obstacle so that people, especially older people, can decide freely how they want to end their life. We also maintain Amendment No 15, because I understand that death is a taboo in our culture, and this law must also try to educate for death. No one can escape it, but we're only prepared for life, and evil. So death always catchs us by surprise. It is essential to accept it as a natural fact, which inevitably goes together with life. That's why I think it's necessary to educate people to live, but also to educate them to die; therefore the amendment says that health professionals plan, together with the sick person, from the early stages of the disease, the decisions to be made on the basis of possible future situations. To finish, I just want to announce my support for this bill, regardless of whether my amendments are granted or not, since I think it's a necessary law for health personnel, although, as I said, it leaves them a difficult, very difficult pencil, and that's perhaps the amendments we should think about most. It is not possible to transfer to medical staff to decide what they will do in case of an opinion against a child in the terminal phase and his or her progenitors. It's a decision that can't fit the medical staff. But it's also important for families to know that they can make that decision, and for caregivers, because the law also attracts attention to caregivers, and for all Greeks and Greeks as future users of this right that in the bill itself it is collected that it must be equal and be close and easy to reach the whole territory, for all Greeks and Greeks. Nothing else. I think it's a law that advances. I hope that at least the amendment to remove that brownie to health care personnel will be taken into account, which the People's Party thinks about, and avoid political responsibilities by turning them into personal responsibilities of the health care staff. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u8	Good day to all and all. This law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people who are now subject here in this plenary session to final approval regulates the right of the Greeks and the Greeks, terminally ill, to decide on their process, on the process of the end of their lives. BNG is glad we're going to pass this law today. Having said that, I must also regret that the House itself comes to the rhythm that the People's Party determines, because a law, as has just been said, that was taken into consideration in December 2012, has been wintering for several months in a drawer until the People's Party decides to give it forward, or not. And I say it because it's not by receipt that we're attending here, in parliament, to the unilateral rulings of the People's Party. Having said this, he said that this law we believe is positive, that it is progress. It's not the law of maximums that the Galician Nationalist Block would want. We believe that further progress must be made in legislative measures that cease to penalize people who have no other acceptable way of living the suffering that ceases to live. We believe that we must continue to deepen on this line, that we must achieve the amendment of the Criminal Code – basically as far as Article 143 is concerned – so that people can freely decide about their lives and also freely about their death. Because the struggle for a worthy death is part of the struggle for a worthy life and in the BNG we defend the need to have legal instruments to achieve these goals that allow people to move forward in control of their lives throughout their extension. Acquiring the legal recognition of the control of life itself and of death itself is of relevance to the advancement of people's rights; a premise contrary to the one they come to maintain high powers and instances such as the Catholic Church, where the sacredness of life is gained, thus denying that it belongs to the person and not to a divine being. We are, therefore, in the presence of a law – I insist – which is an advance, a law in which all the groups present in this House have done an exercise of self-contention – so to speak – aware of the limitations of the legal framework, to go further, as we would like to the Nationalist Block Galego. We are therefore faced with a regulation that regulates that right to a worthy and precise death because – as I have already said at the time of taking into consideration the law – the Health Insurance Act was a missed opportunity because the People's Party was more interested in the aspect which meant that this Law of Guarantees could deliver, under the umbrella of the law, public health to private health, and in the same case this right to a worthy death was not regulated, beyond what was the record of previous instructions – which was an advance – and the right of persons to determine their vital will, to register it, to decide how they want their death and to lay their end, but it does not regulate how to effect that right. And a right that then does not establish mechanisms of how to carry it out ends up being wet paper; therefore the necessity of this law to move forward in that direction. The regulation of a worthy death was being demanded by many professionals who were doing a good medical practice, but that prax was not covered by any legal regulations. We believe that volunteerism should not go on and that it should be regulated, and also a regulation that guarantees proper attention during the final process of life, to prevent or alleviate the pain of people, suffering and, at the same time, respect the dignity and free decision of each of those people who are in the final process of their lives. This Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons establishes that right of persons, whatever the terminal illness they suffer, whatever the place of Galicia where they live, whatever their age, belief or morals, whatever the health or social welfare center or where the process takes place. A terminally ill person has the right to choose, and that choice cannot mean less rights. It is a law that does not contemplate the possibility of accepting the objection of conscience by professionals. And this was a question in which we express total consensus on the political groups present in this Parliament. It is not up to any professional to accept any type of conscientious objection when reporting on the diagnosis to the affected persons, when applying a treatment or when performing any intervention. We believe that this is a fundamental aspect, one of the aspects that means greater advance of those contemplated in this law, because we believe that the right to die dignifiedly and that treatment has been applied to ensure that this death is done without pain and that it respects the opinion and the desire of the person seems to us to be fundamental. And it also regulates the rights of these people and the obligations of the professionals who care for them. The BNG, after the bill was accepted, presented 21 amendments, of course, with the objective of improving the text, of introducing aspects that did not include the original text. And I have to say here today that we have had an intense work in the Phoenicia, a debate in which we were prepared to agree and in what we have reached agreements in many respects. It is a law that presents fruity points of wide transactions and a debate with which we have been deeply in the content of the law and in which – I insist, in the way of the Nationalist Block Galego – a text with which we all feel, with more or less intensity, but reflected. Amendments submitted by the BNG. The first one is for the correction of sexist language, which is still a question where in a very important part of the laws that arrive in this House, we must always make that gender correction. We believe that we should all make an effort so that this is not the case in the presentation of texts, so that there will not be after you proceed to your sexist language. In addition to regulating the quality of life and dignity of terminally ill people, it was recognized in its object that the obligations of the health care staff that these people have to attend to, as well as the guarantee that health and socio-health institutions should provide in that process, are also regulated. We believe that we are clearly regulating the rights of sick people, terminal people, but also the obligations and rights of professionals, and also the guarantees that health and socio-health centres in which this process takes place. So we thought it should be included in the object in a clear way. They're amended to recognize the reality of relationships that go beyond the family. We are in a society where relations and decision-making are not confined exclusively to the family. And that's why we tabled amendments so that the newcomers who are part of that environment too were recognized when they were able to make decisions. You amend so that the right to clinical information title corresponds solely to this person or to whom you delegate; so that it would be clear to you that it is the person who has that right. Amendments to preserve the privacy and protection of data relating to the entire process of the end of life. And you also amend to add, to the scope of this law, socio-sanitary centers, because in these centers there are many people who end their lives. We believe that, in addition to the health centres – and, of course, the home – it was good that these health centres were introduced. You also amend to recognize the right to receive clinical, true and comprehensible information about the diagnosis in order to help you make decisions. And amendments to include the right of emancipated minors or minors under the age of 16 to which the decision corresponds solely and exclusively to these persons. Inform the parents yes, but the right of final decision-making must be unique and exclusively of these people. We also present amendments to establish mechanisms for assessing and monitoring compliance with the law. We believe it is important that, after passing a law, we establish mechanisms to see if it is going to be implemented; we amend that within a year a study on the level of compliance of the law has been carried out and also that the dissemination between professionals and the population is carried out, because a right that is unknown, a law that is not known to the people it is directed to, remains in wet paper. That's why we also consider all that dissemination work important. And you also amend that Galicia's public health system implements all the quantities and supplies of palliative care units and equipment to provide this assistance, to ensure that, in addition to approving the law, there are the resources necessary to carry it out. Also to ensure equity in access to all Welsh and Welsh people, regardless of the place of Galicia in which they live. The result of the work on tabloids, six of the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block have been accepted, six more have been negotiated. Of these six, we keep four of them alive, because we believe that with their approval it would further improve the final text, which is the goal of the Galician Nationalist Block. That is why we keep alive Amendment No 2, so that it is introduced that, in addition to regulating the quality of life and dignity of terminally ill people, the obligations of the health personnel to attend to these persons, as well as the guarantees to be provided by the institutions, paragraph 13, relating to the recognition of the right to take decisions of disabled children over the age of 16 years; number 19, referring to the assessment of the level of compliance with the law; and number 21, where the provision of palliative care units is requested so that this law can be implemented with all guarantees and to ensure that the Government of Greece can ensure the equitable application of this law in any part of Galicia where people are in the final process of their lives. We hope that these amendments that we have kept for this plenary may still be approved. And also, even if they are not approved, we shall vote in favour of this legislative text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u9	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Her word is Eva Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u10	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank you for the work done during the Phoenicia. It's true, as it was said here today, that it was the result of a broad debate, especially probably because it was a bill with more ethical issues or more personal or subjective criteria in some respects. It is true that it is to be thanked and that we must thank the work of the Presidency because it does not happen in all the speeches and debates of all the initiatives in this House; and we therefore understand that it is worth highlighting. As for the agreements reached during the work of the Phoenician Parliament, it seems to us that, above all, it has to do with the adequacy of the adoption of this law – we also announce that we will vote favourably, regardless of the maintenance of our amendments – which was not a great probably therapeutic novelty or in the field of health, but rather legal certainty in practices that are already being carried out, such as therapeutic sedation or non-extension artificially, with extraordinary methods, of the life of people who are in terminal condition for an illness, an accident – as has already been discussed during the Phoenician Conference – or a determined process in which their situation will not improve, is irreversible and will not have any sort of benefit with an extraordinary therapeutic measure. So we understood that what was given was that legal certainty of something that had already happened. And probably one of the points where the agreement has been reached, which we understand to be the most important, is precisely the matter of conscientious objection, in which this amendment of the Gaga de Left Alternative that called for the removal of that point was adopted, because we understand that it is an obligation of the professionals working in health to comply with the applicable legislation on the rights of patients and patients. If this is approved as a person's right, it is not up to health professionals to interpret it and must therefore be applied at all times. Unfortunately, it's a situation that, although it's not very common, now if you're living. And we understand that observance of the application of this legislation, whenever it enters into force, must be strict to ensure its compliance and that the rights of persons in terminal situations are respected. Beyond other agreements that have already been discussed here, it seems to us quite important, especially in relation to the situation of cuts that are suffering from our public health, that agreement related to individual beds for people in terminal situations. During the debate in the Péncia we recalled that in palliative care units we tend to respect this, but not always, there are situations in which it is not possible, or they consider it not possible. But this law opens the door for this to have to be respected for all people in a terminal situation, and the fact that at some point this can not be respected and has to be placed, this sick person, with another room sharing, that's the exceptionality and not the norm. I say this because, as the health adviser here is present and if you have defended in this House that the occupation of public beds within the Galician Health Service – something that we suspect is not so – is 77%, we understand that from now on there will be no problem in meeting absolutely with each patient in a terminal situation, because this rule requires, except in exceptionality, that which has to be justified and that these people contain with a single room. Therefore, the door to which families are requesting and claiming their rights is opened once this law comes into force. As for the amendments that we keep alive, they are essentially all corresponding to the subject of gender correction, to the feminization of the text, besides some amendment, as could be number 1, which expands the object of the law corresponding to article 1 and has not been accepted, but the bulk of the amendments that we keep alive correspond to that correction of gender. In this case it is a bill brought by the Socialist Party, but usually in the bills that correspond to the Government there is no kind of feminization of texts, they continue to come all in singular male. And, really, we do not understand how, at this point, when it is widely defended – always said – by the Secretariat of Equality and in all appearances that the matter of equality is a cross-cutting matter, we continue to debate, project after bill or proposal after bill, proposals that do not cover both genres and that are merely written in masculine. It's true that some of the amendments have been accepted, also in relation to the gender correction that other groups have proposed, but to me they call attention like some if they were accepted in that correction and others are not. For example, we keep alive some of the amendments, such as 4 or 5, which intend to pass from what they put during the text, from referring to doctors, to "medical staff", or from the patient to "sick person." There's a lot of them going this way. We understand that it is quite easy to use the neutral in these cases and we do not understand why we should continue to use the male formulation. Even if it's not the central theme of the debate of this law, it seems to us a very important issue, because we always talk about transversality and then, in the end, it turns out that when we have to approve legal texts we follow them without gender correction. So it's not a ballad theme. I'm going to finish, because it's true that most of the debate has already been resolved in the Phoenicia itself, from the agreements and the debate, but I want to remember a reflection I've already made in the debate taking into account this initiative, and it's true that its approval provides that legal certainty to which I was referring, well it's true that it does not cover the central issue that we should be debating, which is the subject of euthanasia. I said that day – and in the Phoenicia itself – that there is indeed an inability to approve a legal amendment of such a calibre in this House, unfortunately because it implies the amendment of the Criminal Code and, therefore, it has to be the subject of debate in the Congress of Members and Members, but it must also be recalled in this House that, in addition to my group would agree to this point, the group to which my colleagues and colleagues belong in the Congress of Deputies and Members, of the Left Plural, has been presenting legislation after legislation proposed to include this debate on the right to have their own life, and that, unfortunately, the majority groups traditionally come to vote against it. I would demand, despite the fact that it cannot be approved within this legal text, a reflection to the Members and Members of this House, because, apart from the sedation itself, they know that there are situations that are incompatible with an improvement in the quality of life, in which the person does not have a reversibility in his or her situation and that they are not resolved with a palliative sedation. I would therefore ask that, too, when you have to make this reflection and this debate, you should be a little more generous, because unfortunately only the minority groups of the House in Congress of Members and Members come traditionally to support this proposal. I'll be positioned, I understand that on the other hand, on the remaining amendments. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u11	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. For at last the Law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people will be a reality in our Autonomous Community. I want to take advantage of this final debate to remind you of how their elaboration and processing was and to thank all the people who took part in that process for their work and their contributions. Throughout history, socialists and socialists have always struggled to extend rights and freedoms; rights and freedoms to live and rights and freedoms – as on this occasion – also to die. We are very clear that politics has to ensure that people live with dignity, that this dignity does not depend on the economic capacity of anyone and that during illness one cannot lose that dignity and, of course, not at the time of death, because, ladies and gentlemen, dignity is neither traded nor can it be intermittent. For all this, on his day, the health sector of the PSdEG-PSOE – to whom I congratulate again for his work – has been designed to draft a bill that contemplated the rights, guarantees and dignity of people at the time of death; a bill developed with the collaboration of great thinkers in that matter, but also listening to many of the people and associations who work daily in that field, such as the Association of the Dignous Death, whom I thank again for all their collaboration. And when the German sector has completed the project, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has decided to present it in this House. That is why, in last December, we also discussed here in this plenary the consideration of a project so that in Galicia, by law, the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the people in a terminal situation by the hands of the Socialist Parliamentary Group were defined; a proposal which I have to say was very well welcomed by the other groups, who unanimously voted in favour of it. Although I also have to say, in honor of the truth, that it was received with certain nervousness by the Popular Parliamentary Group, that, as you certainly remember, in that initial debate, he stressed – with great insistence that we be very clear – that for them there were some red lines that would never happen. So I suppose that in order to have enough time to establish and delimit those red lines, at first, the Popular Parliamentary Group did not show much interest or enthusiasm for this text, so until April they did not allow the work of the Phoenician Parliament to begin. By the way, that delay has made it in Galicia, though it will be one of the first communities to have a law of these characteristics, because we are not going to be such pioneers. At last in April they started their work, and we sat around a table the speakers of the various parliamentary groups – speaking in women, because we were all women, except the spokesperson of the Popular Parliamentary Group – and the lawyer, also a woman, whom I want to take advantage of to also thank their collaboration, without any doubt essential. Once again I want to emphasize the good that was worked in that P.O. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in time, with interest, with dedication and, above all, with great generosity; generosity shown not only by the resignation and sacrifice by all groups of many of the initial proposals or contributions, but also by the generosity with which the debates took place. All the groups, ladies and gentlemen, we analyzed and assumed as our own the proposals of all the others, they had come from where they came from. And from these intense and generous debates came this text that we are submitting today, which is going to be put to the vote in this House; a text already of all and of all and a text, undoubtedly, much more plural than that originally presented by our group, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a very necessary law. Yes, indeed necessary, as has already been said here, for the professionals and health professionals; these professionals and those professionals who help us die every day, but who do it from underground, exposed to a complaint putting them in an uncomfortable situation because of the existing legal vacuum – we will remember, surely, that sense of Madrid's urgency, from a Madrid hospital – but also necessary for citizenship, for all of us, because, indeed, there is a record of previous instructions, nothing to be guaranteed until now. I wasn't defined who, how and how they would be or what those previous instructions would have to be applied when the time came. It would be necessary because it is a law that collects the right of all of us to die without pain, to die without anguish, to die with peace, and we die for the cause that we die, to be where we are and to be as old as we are. So from now on we can have the assurance that the most suitable palliative care will be applied to us at any point in Galicia where we decide to die and that, if death occurs in a health center, we will be housed in a decent and suitable space for that trance and not thrown into a corridor or a emergency ward, and accompanied by our family or our friends, if that is our desire. And besides, we want with this law, the guarantee that they will be supported and stuffed in that painful farewell. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is made up of twenty-six articles in which the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block is crumbled into one of the amendments it has brought to the text and which have been incorporated. One which stated as basic principles of law: protecting dignity, defending freedom, autonomy and the will of people at the time of death, ensuring equality and non-discrimination. And besides, and thanks to a contribution made by the Mixed Group and also incorporated into the text, the right of persons to be provided with palliative care most suited to their circumstances, both personal, family or social. A law in which, as has already been said, the objection of conscience was eliminated, as both the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the People's Parliamentary Group demanded; I have to say that for quite different reasons. Objection of conscience that we socialists considered in the initial text, but sacrificed for the sake of consensus. It is clear that the People's Party with that suppression placed its red line. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, he placed his red line, for he limited the law to the field of palliative care, to which no doubt there was no objection, but he closed the door to the whole other generation applied outside that frame. In this law, ladies and gentlemen – I thank you for making a last effort to reach consensus – you also talk about minors and minors. And we have to understand ourselves because if death is hard and difficult for all people, when it comes to children and children, it's even more so. Ladies and gentlemen, this text has put the debate on death before all of us. We know that today, in fact, we are not going to vote for a maximum law, as they undoubtedly preferred some sectors of society and many of those people and those associations that have already pondered a lot about life and death. But I ask them for patience, I ask them for understanding, for it is a difficult path, it is a painful path and it is a path that we must all do together, all and all little by little. And no doubt today, ladies and gentlemen, with this law we are taking the first step. In our group we'll always be willing to work to get people to define how and when they die. Exactly what – as I said in the first debate – Seneca wished: "Just as I will choose the ship to sail and the house to live in, so also death to come out of life." But we celebrate, ladies and gentlemen, and much, that today we are taking this first and, no doubt, indispensable step. The Socialist Parliamentary Group would like us and we would like to welcome the fact that all groups have joined this Act on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the people in a terminal situation, because it already has a few of us all. I hope it will be approved with the unanimous support of the House, because if we can choose between a painful death and another simple and calm, why not, ladies and gentlemen, choose the latter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u13	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor, for being in this debate today. Good morning, too, to all the guests who are in Parliament's rostrum, where we are going to discuss the Bill of Rights and Guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people. I must begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the lawyer. It's true as it was said here that it was an interesting, productive work, a work in which there was no rush, a job paused, very thoughtful; all contributions were submitted to an evaluation trying to reach a definitive consensus, and I think that it was conquered. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a good example for this House. May we walk in a line similar to this, where benefits that can be brought to society, which is what we demand from those who have been elected by it, always lead the course of consensus! This would certainly be satisfactory for us. When the People's Parliamentary Group, a majority group of this House, agreed to take into account the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons, it made clear what were the matters of which we could dialogue and even consensual some of these matters. We assume at that time, ladies and gentlemen, that citizenship demands quality in death, and we have to respond to this demand through an ethical consensus and also a legal consensus. In our institutional heritage is nature in the process of death, seeking peace at the end of life. I read yesterday – I can't need who – but I read an article – I don't remember at this time – that quoted a very sharp phrase that said: "Death is a painful process if you deny it, but it's something beautiful if you accept it as something natural." Our professionals must have information and tools to assume their role safely and reduce conflict in a painful situation. The autonomy of people and the desire to make decisions about what affects them was for us primarily in the debate of this law. We have also taken into account in the debate of this law the medical-patient relationship, informed consent, a whole host of procedures that are changing and that are related to the death process. All of this has to be taken into account and I think it's been taken into account by law. When we accepted consideration we were also willing to talk about the correct use of terms and we wanted to speak of a common language, which is assigned to words a precise meaning. A lot of terms are handled around death. Many terms that sometimes cause confusion at the end of life. For example: totanasia, dysthanasia, therapeutic obstination, limitations of therapeutic effort. All this, ladies and gentlemen, it was good to clear it up, and it was good that we talked about it, and that's what we were talking about. We were also clear about what we weren't going to talk about, and that's not what we were talking about. We made it clear we weren't going to talk about euthanasia. We understood euthanasia how to deliberately end up with the life of a patient with terminal or irreversible disease at the express, voluntary and repeated request of the patient. This must be made clear, because the Criminal Code does not use this term, but regulates the situation exposed as aid and induction to suicide. The concept of euthanasia doesn't fit for us, it didn't have it in the bill, and so it was in the Phoenician sense, it didn't fly over the Phoenician term euthanasia. We took as reference, ladies and gentlemen, and it had to be so, the collection of palliative care in the Greek Plan and also the recommendations made by the Galician Bioethics Commission. We've taken many of the contributions that have been made, and they're reasonable. It's true that not only if he dies in a hospital, he dies in a socio-sanitary residence, he dies in his home. It's more than proven, and this is very much studied, that a significant percentage of people prefer to die at home. So these concepts and these definitions we had to refer to in the law. The Galician Commission on Bioethics and Palliative Care made some recommendations that we took and frame as amendments. And among them we made the following contributions, which in some ways significantly improved the text presented here: We must not shorten the life forecast time to six months; that's why we amend it. For life time, it seems to us that it's much more appropriate to use the term "limited life prognosis," but we don't put six months or put four, because it can be nine or ten. This wasn't supposed to help him. And so we did. It was also done and it was considered necessary to include in the decision-making process family representatives because they were left out. And this, of course, is a matter that we should regulate, so we amend it. And there was a legal process – which even the rapporteurs would remember – where I myself expressed a personal situation in which I could see myself being subjected because if this was not perfectly collected, and I thank the rapporteurs who let me include that proposal because the subject they know directly touched me. We also clarified the sedation. We correctly define palliative sedation and sedation in agony. We did it in the P.O. because it has to be said that the text was a little confusing. I think the definition that eventually makes PONENCE is interesting, because, among other things, we define palliative sedation and define sedation in agony. When we talk about palliative sedation it is the deliberate administration of drugs at doses and combinations required to reduce the consciousness of a patient with terminal or advanced disease, as necessary to adequately relieve one or more refractory symptoms – refractory symptoms is the one that cannot be properly controlled. We made it clear. And then we talked about that a special type of palliative sedation was sedation in agony, which applies when death is expected very close or death will be an inexorable consequence of the evolution of the sick or their complications, but not of sedation. This makes it clear. And this seems very important to me; this was to clarify the background of what we were discussing. And I personally believe that sedation is legally and it's lawful to gather three fundamental causes: one, if it arises before the presence of one or more refractory symptoms that we cannot control; the second, the intention of sedation must be to relieve suffering, not shorten the patient's life; and the third, we have to obtain informed consent. If we have these three variables, absolutely legal. In these terms it has been shaped; therefore, in that term I think we have made an effort to clarify the sense of this law. We couldn't share, Mrs Acuña, the terms of selecting patients by a multidisciplinary team, because it was basically referring to the hospital. And we felt important if we appreciated that if we could die in the hospital, in a senior residence or in the home, the family doctors could not be excluded; and that's why we decided that they should be included in that way. The law also provides very important things. We establish the right not to receive information if the patient so desires; if the patient does not want to receive information from his process, he has every right not to receive it. And I think we were right to decide not to get involved in the subject of previous instructions, because I think there are enough documentation already: Law 41/2002, which is the Patient Self-Government Act, the Galician informed consent and the clinical history Act and the Health Insurance Act. And besides, we remember something Galicia can be proud of. It's from the few communities that IANUS has implemented, so it's very easy to access all of the information on will record and all of the information on prior instructions and clinical history of patients, because there already exists an icon where the optional or personal that serves can perfectly value that. So that's what we picked up like this. Although the law required that this icon be created, I understand that it was an error in processing this request. We also talk about comfort, which was a very debated subject, and we generate the right to comfort – as explained here – and to the patient's assistance, safeguarding situations of exceptionality that may occur. And a very important issue, we're giving consistency to the issue of equity, it couldn't be any other way. Equality must be present in everything that has to do with health care, but especially in access to palliative care. They were also very interesting about the contributions they made. For example, a terminally ill patient may choose where he or she wants to be provided with palliative care. We set the example of a displaced patient in a particular city who, as a result of being alone and so on, wants to be given that assistance in another city, and so we collected it and it is shaped by the law. We also introduced through an amendment the subject of continuing professional training, especially in clinical training in palliative care. Even though we're aware that there's no such thing as palliative care, we've made an effort to somehow consider this matter. And, of course, we – and this is a personal opinion – consider that "dignified death" is a poorly recommended term today. The Galician Bioethics Commission recommends that we use this term the least, because it is an ambiguous term that addresses a wide range of issues and only makes it possible for an intuitive and imprecise agreement. In our law, in the law that is to be passed today, we had to correct the reference to certain articles of the Constitution for understanding that it was a mistake. It's not an article in the Constitution, something that has to do with the legislative capacity of the chambers or with the rights to property, so we corrected it. And we also clearly clarify the obligation of informed consent. Consent informed because the original text refers to the Nuremberg Code or the Helsinki Declaration, but these are about the investigation. It must be an informed consent of the patient about the investigation, not the informed consent of the patient about the decision of the final process of life. We valued Law 41/2002, of patient autonomy – I think so – and our self-regulation. It couldn't be any other way; if we're talking about Galicia it must be a law that takes as reference the one drawn up in the Autonomous Community. And so we value Law 3/2001, of informed consent, and Law 3/2005, which is the law that amends it. When it comes to children, we respect their needs. There was an interesting transaction proposal, which was made. And, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, the right to information is always, and the right to decision in cases of conflict as it collects the patient's autonomy law, in case there may be doubt, applying the law in force in this case, you can always resort to the judicial issue. But I think that the transaction we've put in clearly leaves this matter to be settled. A law worked, with discussion, with interesting proposals that come in a first step the right and the guarantees of terminally ills. A law that gives support to good clinical practice and the development of professionals in our health system. A law that takes into account and respects the specificities of our community, as it refers to our regulations. I, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the work done in Phoenicia. It wasn't an easy law, this wasn't an easy law, it was a law that had its complications. I really appreciate the consensus, it was nice to be able to work on such a complex matter as this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u15	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u16	...and that's why I thank all the speakers and the lawyer today. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u17	Thank you very much. Round of the groups to be defined on the amendments kept by the others. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u18	Well, the amendments that keep the other groups will count on our support. We have, of course, already said so in committee and in tabling. But I wanted to talk here about terms that don't fit into the law like the term euthanasia. I'm not going to pronounce myself in favor of or against, but I do believe that the law must respond to social demands. Just as I think we're not educated for death, obviously euthanasia I think it's not a claim either, we're not educated, we weigh a lot of things, from religious beliefs, cultural influences... so, I think this law is going forward, to a death I think it's a worthy death, in the sense that people can die in conditions of lack of pain, family support and tranquility, which guarantee that step in a much lighter way. But it's also important to point out that in the law, even though it's called "terrestrial sick people," yes we also agree that there would be accidents, people who are injured, who are actually not sick people but who are often in a terminal situation. Therefore, the fan is much wider than the title itself could have come to understand. As for previous instructions, I keep insisting that we have a very old population without access to the Internet. So I think it's essential that you pick up how that information is going to be given and that possibility of making the final declaration of will to all people who have problems accessing the Internet or covering forms that are sometimes complicated for people of advanced age. So I think you should be accompanied by at least instructions on primary care to ask patients if they have that statement of will or if they are guided in the same primary care services where they can be covered by these papers, and therefore they can ensure that everyone will have made their statements. And it's also important to advertise this right for all and all of the Greeks through information in hospitals, health centers, etc. Because, although we have many laws, I really ask how many Greeks and Greeks know the Law of guarantees or read the laws. If we really want to advertise them, we can't let them be advertised, there's a law, but the specific rights of that law, without the small letter, the concrete one, the important one must be advertised. Intimacy in death, too. I think it's important to walk that way, we know that current health services cannot guarantee 100 percent. But if it's important that in the law it doesn't look like something weird, something unusual that a family can't have that intimacy in an individual room to pass that trance of death, since at that time the feelings are very much the flower of skin, and not only for their own family and the patient in terminal condition, but more and more for the family and the patient who is sharing that situation that makes their stay much harder in the hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u19	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u20	I'm going to finish. And as for the subject of children, I regret that this subject remains here. Now Mr. Santalices was saying that the judicial decision remains. The judicial decision is not the solution that must have a law, it should be settled there. Because I ask: if the doctor chooses to take into consideration the opinion of the parents, what will go, the terminally ill minor, to trial? Of course, the sick minor has lost his right. I therefore deeply regret that the People's Party does not take this issue into account and does not support the decision of the minors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u22	Well, very briefly, we're also going to support the amendments that remain alive from other groups, because they affect aspects similar to the amendments that the Galician Nationalist Block presented and that would further improve the law. In particular, I regret that the question is not accepted that minors who are emancipated and under 16 have the right to decide solely on the process that will lead them to the end of their lives. And you have left here the People's Party Member, Mr Santalices, of course there is a conflict, of course. And what the BNG intended was that in the face of this conflict, if there was a conflict between the opinion of those minors under 16 or emancipated and the opinion of the parents or legal guardians, who prevailed the will of the minor. We're talking about 16-year-olds, which we think should be the will of those people I told you about. He has thus opened up that this can be settled in judicial headquarters, we believe that it is not the best way and that it would be good if he had accepted, that they would still be accepted – that we are still going to vote – the amendments, because it does not seem that the judicial route is the best way to solve this question that we are going to say. This legislative initiative must be accompanied by multidisciplinary strategies that promote the change of clinical practices and the real application of the measures and procedures that are laid down in the law, because the law takes on the role of rights and duties, but they must be converted into practice, they must be converted into reality. The reality must be converted into a practice so that the quality of death does not depend on galimity of will, belief, supposed decisions in opposition or conflict. So the amendments that were also not accepted by the BNG were in this direction, in the direction of going on a follow-up, an assessment of how this law is being implemented and setting deadlines for that assessment that within a year if you do a study of how it is being applied and then periodically, at least every two years, it is also going to be done. We think it is essential because it is very good to approve laws that respond to needs, but of course, if it's not going to be evaluated, if the level of response to them is going to be effective, because it's not the best of scenarios. Just like the theme of the broadcast. We believe that it is essential that, once this law is passed, an exhaustive dissemination of it among professionals, between terminally ill people and between society in general, because – I said before – a right that is unknown is a right that does not exist. So all the agents involved in this issue need to know that there is this law and that they must ask for it to be implemented. Let's hope, I hope, in the name of the Galego Nationalist Block, that even if our proposal is not accepted in this sense, it will be done anyway. And I want to think that the non-acceptance of amendments doesn't mean that this follow-up, that evaluation, that information process is not going to be done. If training of professionals is taken in palliative care. I also hope that resources will be implemented to make this real, because if there are no professionals trained in this matter, even though there is no specialty, it will not be possible to give the people involved good attention. As far as the situation in which it occurs or has to result in death...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u23	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u24	...it remained in the text that "Health centres and institutions will guarantee the patient in terminal situation that must be attended in specialization regime, the best conditions of the patient regarding comfort, smell and intimacy, including the socio-health and the right to stay in an individual room, unless exceptional circumstances justify it." And I hope that this will be fulfilled, that cuts in personnel, in means, in resources, in which exceptional circumstances become standard. I really hope that this question that is collected as a right, except justification that it cannot be so, is actually met. So I'm waiting until the end of the vote on the amendments that are voted in favour, but I think that we are nevertheless in the face of progress with the adoption of this law, and I insist that the Nationalist Block of Wales will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u26	Thank you, President. Very soon, too. First of all, we are going to vote in favour of the rest of the amendments to the opposition, including the issue of minors, because if we were to reflect that we understood that the transaction that was taken should also be adopted by consensus. And concerning the points that Mr. Santalices handled here, it is not that euthanasia – you said – did not plan on the debate, I said in my intervention that there is no place; the problem is that we would need a change of the penal code. I wish we could debate it here in the Galician Parliament, but we could not debate it only by including it in this bill. So it's not that there's no debate, it's that we couldn't unfortunately introduce it by the law we refer to. And as for sedation, you referred to what was meant to alleviate suffering. And, of course, it is, but let's not cheat either. I mean, we all know, you know, and if you shouldn't, that on many occasions, when a sedation is applied, the process or the situation of life of that person is usually short, not because sedation induces death, but because, by the therapeutic application itself, by the elimination of pain and by other mechanisms and medical processes, usually the person is more relaxed, and it's possible that death comes a little earlier. It doesn't accelerate in an extraordinary way, but we understand that that's at least the reference I was making in my intervention with regard to the sedation itself. And as for the term "dignified death," which I know has been very insistent during the debate in Phoenicia, I do believe that the term "dignified death" must be used because, unfortunately, there are people who die indignantly also in our health system. It's not the most common thing, but denying a problem doesn't make it disappear. First, because unfortunately there are still professionals who tend to therapeutic incarnation. I understand that from this law will apply the legislation that will be passed. It's common for us to have professionals with ethical divergences, who shouldn't be sheltered within a public system. Then there is the case of preposition in some cases, which is not the majority but still exists, of personal values that are not compatible with work in a public system, such as those related to moral, religious values, etc., that could effectively collide with that problem of the consciousness association that we have already eliminated in this legal text. I simply demand that the rules that are to be adopted today be applied. And obviously, there's a point that is perhaps despised, but that on many occasions people die badly, they die in an unworthy way, because it's not enough time in health care, and that also has to do with the state of public health in our country. Some people come in for an emergency service and die before a palliative sedation or any other measure is applied. So that's not a ballad theme, nor is it a subject that you don't have to consider. I would ask that the amendments to the Left Galician Alternative be valued. I reiterate the importance of gender considerations in every text, in every initiative approved in this House; it seems to us that we cannot continue to pass legal texts without gender correction, without feminization, without the introduction of female gender into texts. If we consider equality to be an important issue and that it is not a minor issue that we bring up the women contained or within a neutral formation in legal texts. And already to finish and with reference to what I said in the previous intervention on beds, but also to the number of health professionals in public health, who allow strict application of the rights contained in this legal text, I reiterate that we will be attentive to compliance with this law, because we understand that with the cuts being applied in some cases it will be difficult to apply. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very brief way, only once again to thank the collaboration of all the groups and to celebrate the announcement that has been made from this stage, that this text will be adopted unanimously. After the experience of this presentation, it is clear that these are neither pacts, nor agreements, ladies and gentlemen, but rather dialogue, serious debates, rigorous debates, serene debates, because people understand each other. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, that you hold the majority of this House, and on you it depends that this collaboration shown to talk about death is also used to talk about life, although after the preamble we had this morning I think this will be a mirrorism. But I'm not going to talk about what happened this morning in this House, something intolerable at all, because the presidential whims cannot hinder this debate. The work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group began by considering this debate about death, yes, Mr. Santalies, about worthy death or death with dignity. And it also consisted of introducing a bill that regulates the rights and guarantees of that dignity. But our work is not over here, but since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are going to be very vigilant so that the law is now respected. We have a challenge, a new challenge, and it is that before the end of the year this law is known by all professionals and health professionals, but also by all citizenship, so that, and from now on, they can be applied and you can receive palliative care with equality and great dignity throughout the Greek territory. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Group, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u30	Thank you, Madam President. This is a law of Parliament, because it is a fruit of the contribution of all groups. I recognize, and I give credit to the one who put the debate on the table, who was the Socialist Parliamentary Group. But I also give credit to those who accepted it, who were the majority group of this House, the People's Parliamentary Group. I also give credit to the rapporteurs, to the rapporteurs; well, I will not give credit to myself, but I give credit to the rapporteurs and the lawyer. And it wasn't so much delay, Mrs. Prado, because this wasn't discussed in 2012, it was debated on December 2, 2014. So I think the thing was like this. I would like to thank my group for the autonomy and responsibility they gave me in the process of this law, and I want to personalize it – although it is not – in your spokesman and in all my colleagues. I know it was a task in which I had a great responsibility, but I had absolute freedom to do so, and that's what I want to thank you for. I also want to thank those who advised me – I couldn't do this alone – and I really appreciate the work of a person who is among the audience, who is Dr. Rosendo Bugarín, an expert on this matter, to whom I thank very much for his work. I appreciate that work, I think it's a decent job. Furthermore, someone in the Commission said that there was a lot of consensus in this law, because it is difficult for some of us not to go through this situation. Well, of course, that sensitizes a lot, and I think that's why consensus has been reached. I also recognize that I have made many amendments, and that I have even changed all the exposition of motives and all the articulate. It's not done for wrong, Mrs. Acuña, it's done to enrich the text, because it was also allowed to add the contributions that were also made by the other groups, and there was a lot of transaction. So it was not wrong for us to make these kind of transactions. Obviously, we had to remove the objection of conscience, in this matter there was no objection of conscience. This, ladies and gentlemen, is lex arts, good clinical practice. We're talking about patient care, and this can't under any concept be subjected to an objection of consciousness. And I celebrate unanimity on this issue. And we also had to value our laws, because, of course, Mrs. Acuña, you refer to me in your text – I suppose it would be a mistake – which will be applicable in our community to Law 5/2003; that is the Andalusian Law of advance wishes. I can't give credit to that, in Galicia it will be of application to our law. So I summarizing this would say: here entered a Andalusian law and a Greek law comes out. And we must be proud, because a perfectly acceptable law comes out. We couldn't leave the training out, and then I think we made an effort. And I am grateful to the member of the Joint Group who, thanks to counseling from the lawyer, could hang up that amendment of mine that set up; something that if she had refused had left us out of this issue. Possibly this law will be changed, it will say the turn of time. What I know for sure is that both in Phoenicia and plenary today we have taken an important step, what happens in the future will be another question. Therefore, I, ladies and gentlemen, end with three conclusions: looking for a good death, in which pain and suffering are reduced by proper palliative care, must be required for professionals; secondly, the end of life puts us in the face of evidence that medicine has limits, and that there are processes that are not susceptible to healing that require care; society and the system must pay particular interest to offer people full attention with greater quality. I think this is the last end that led us to this presentation, I think the effort on the adoption of amendments is made, I regret not being able to accept the amendments that keep alive, but in any case if we all express the satisfaction of having taken an important step with the adoption of this law. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u31	Thank you very much. Debate and take into account the G.P. Bill. of the Galician Nationalist Block, reform of Law 13/2013, of 23 December, of Galician Hunting, for the prohibition of the use of ammunition containing lead throughout the territory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u32	For the presentation of the bill has the floor, by the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. I would also like to be able to greet the guests of the Galician Nationalist Block today. However, by absolutely arbitrary decisions and repression of this Parliament, our parliamentary group cannot have invitations here today. We, of course, regret that the position which the People's Parliament Group is holding, through its majority in this Parliament and in the Presidency, is increasingly alienating us, as an institution, from the people, and, instead of being a democratic, transparent institution, where anyone can attend the plenary, what we have are censures that we believe they are going on the line to continue with the discredit of politics and to alienate this Parliament from the Greek people. We regret this, in addition, especially on this initiative, because this initiative is born of collaboration with the Free Animal Association, which has done a very important job in shaping and driving this legal amendment, and which, unfortunately, cannot attend this debate today. In any case, we understand that it is important to defend this bill, with which it is intended to reform an article of the Hunting Act and introduce an additional provision that the only thing it pursues is to prohibit the use of lead ammunition throughout the Greek territory and replace this ammunition, contaminant and dangerous to birds, by another type of ammunition with materials with a much smaller impact on our environment. This bill is part of a shared concern about BNG and I understand that other groups, because they place environmental protection policies at the heart of politics, because it is obvious that the situation in our environment... is that there is a lot of background noise and I believe that Members and Members who want to talk can do it... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u34	Mrs. Pontón, please continue with your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u35	Of course, what I would ask you, President, is that, when there's a lot of background murmuring, because you too, in your functions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u36	I'll take care of it when I see that there's serious murmuring. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u37	But I simply warned you, with all courtesy, President, that it was impossible for me to continue my story. I'm sorry that this bothered you, but it seems to me that I'm also on my right to be able to express myself freely and draw attention to a fact which, in truth, was quite upset, even if it hadn't seemed to you. As you said, Madam President, this law is a matter of concern to the Galician Nationalist Block for placing environmental protection policies also at the heart of political debate, because we believe that today one of the major crises has to do with not only the crisis of democracy, the crisis of this model, but also with an environmental crisis that is jeopardizing the future of the planet itself. And we understand, therefore, that it is important to go and take steps to change some things. We know that this is a debate that has long been taking place not only in the European Union as a whole, but in the field of conventions that speak about environmental protection; that there are countries that have been applying it for decades; that at this time there is a fact that brings it back to the present and that could put us in the vanguard of compliance with some of the conventions. In particular, the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals – a convention known as the Bonn Convention – which the Spanish State ratified in 1985. This convention, on November 9, 2014, approved, among its guidelines, the elimination of the use of lead ammunition in all environments, giving a three-year deadline for its application. We understand, therefore, that there is also a reinforcement, and they will not want their lordships here today against this convention, which I believe is also part of the Spanish State. We therefore do not understand that, having the powers in the environment, Galicia's decision must be subordinated to the steps taken in the State, but we have full powers to be able to apply it from now on in our territory. We believe and share that this is an important step forward to eliminate problems that are threatening wild fauna and that are threatening our natural environment, in a direction where some steps have already been taken. Specifically, in 2001, a ban on the use of lead munitions in wetlands and other spaces of Natura 2000 -- a ban that scientists say has had a positive effect. In fact, it is said that we have managed to reduce contaminated birds by 50%; hence, the elimination of lead munitions is seen as having a positive effect. I haven't found any detailed studies on the impact this could have on our country, but we know that we are an area where a lot of migratory species happen, and the data in the European Union what they estimate is that lead poisoning in Europe, in all aquatic birds, affects 1 million animals in a population of 11 million birds of 17 species. I mean, there's a very important impact, almost 1 out of 10; so we're talking about a measure that could have a much bigger and much more important impact. We believe, in addition, that we are talking about not only an environmental conservation problem, but also another derivative that has to do with food safety problems arising from meat contamination for human consumption. In that sense, I have here a report from the Scientific Committee on the Food Security and Nutrition Agency of the Spanish State. This Agency, in 2012, published a report in which it literally says in its conclusions – it has read two of them, translated from Spanish to Greek –: "The largest and least wildlife hunting pieces analyzed in Spain show a medium content of lead above the maximum limits set in the European Union for meat and offal in general. The so-called lead content is similar to that found in other countries and in the whole of Europe, according to the latest estimate by ESFA, which was from 2010. And he concludes in his conclusions by saying: "In the view of this committee, in view of the situation in Spain, the most appropriate measure in relation to the consumption of lead-contaminated wild meat, as a result of the use of lead ammunition, would be to make specific recommendations for the consumption and preparation of foods directed to the population groups that consume this type of meat." And it concludes: "To minimize the risk of toxic effects, as well as to promote substitution and/or prohibition of lead ammunition in favour of other existing alternatives." So we're seeing that from the scientific point of view there are two very clear things. From the point of view of conservation of the environment, and in particular an important part of wildlife, it is important to replace lead. When it's done, it's already had a positive effect, so its extension would result in we don't continue to affect species that have very reduced their habitats, and we would be minimizing their environmental impact. But there are also reports that, from the point of view of food safety, they're saying there's a problem with lead contamination, and the way they recommend it is to replace lead ammunition with another type of ammunition, which exists and which is therefore viable. We understand, therefore, that this is a measure that only has positive results; that it is a step forward in the fulfilment of that convention on the protection of migratory birds; that it is a convention of which the Spanish State is and which would allow us to be placed in the vanguard of the protection of our environment. We hope that today the German Parliament will exercise its position in that direction and that we will be able to adopt unanimously in the light of this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u39	The ban on this lead ammunition, poison, only accounts for the refusal of hunters, because in some cases it requires them to renew their weapons; this is the only problem that exists. So former Minister Manuel Arias Cañete assured them two years ago that he would not veto these perigones, despite reports that alert them to the toxicity they cause, both for humans who consume hunting and for wild animals. Thus, the Government banned the use of these ammunition in protected wetlands in 2001. It is scientifically demonstrated that lead is a toxic heavy metal that accumulates in the environment and in the human body and is harmful to the central nervous system. Children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of lead, since their nervous system is still developing, and even in extremely small amounts – according to studies in the United States – can affect the ability to learn and understand children. It can also reduce fertility, it can be cancerous and toxic to organisms that inhabit water and land. I repeat, lead is a heavy contaminant metal harmful to living organisms. For these reasons, the European Union, through Directive 98/70, prohibited the sale of lead petrol from 1 January 2000. Since lead accumulates in the environment, from a long-term perspective, it would be ideal to limit as far as possible the amount of lead in circulation in our society. The European Union has chosen to prohibit or restrict the use of lead in many contexts, precisely because of its danger. So the use of lead in gasoline, paints, edibles, toys, electronic equipment, cosmetics, etc. is already prohibited, making European and scientific awareness of the problem manifest, and it seems reasonable to extend this restriction and make it a total ban on areas where alternatives exist. According to the legislation of the European Parliament 2002/95, the use of old lead seals is strictly prohibited because it has a high contaminant and harmful power for health and the environment. The Order of 9 April 1986 approving the Regulation on the prevention of risks and protection of workers' health, the presence of metal lead and ion compounds in the workplace. The legal criteria set out to guide the activity of the Government determine that exposure to certain agents during work may have a negative impact on the health and integrity of workers and should therefore, by means of the relevant standard, set minimum and basic measures to be adapted in the field of labour relations for the proper protection of workers. So there's also a specific legislation on the protection of workers and workers against lead, because of this very high toxicity and their permanence in living organisms. The presence of metallic lead and its ion components in the field of work poses a danger to the health of workers and workers, who are involved in specific professional pathologies, many of them of gravity; affecting the renal and hepatic function, as well as the central and peripheral nervous system and hematopoietic tissues. The present rule, in which technical experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Health and Consumer Safety participated, establishes a set of necessary legal measures on evaluation, correction, control and prevention of occupational exposure risks arising from lead and ion compounds. As well as the PPEs that must use the workers who are in contact with lead. Therefore, because of the terrible consequences that lead has for the environment, for the ecosystem, for the quality of water, for the quality of land and for human beings themselves, I support the consideration of this law. And by the way, without having to deal with a law... the only interest that there may be in not accepting this bill is to keep the interest of an exclusive collective, which is that of the hunters, in order not to change their weapons. And I believe that public health, the health of everyone, has to be above the interests of any collective, which is not prevented by the practice of hunting, but only by the prohibition of using ammunition that is dangerous to the health of the population. I'm done, adding to the criticism of censorship and repression that is expressed in denial of the right to have been invited by the groups. The group is not punished, it is not denied the right to the group, but the one who is denied a fundamental right is the Greek people, to attend the debates that interest them. So I'm sorry he punishes the Greek people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u41	Good morning. Good morning to all of you. We support the consideration of this amendment of the Hunting Law. I'm not going to stretch out, I'm not going to waste my time, so that the debate doesn't end up getting too heavy, it rains too much. It rains, doesn't it, or plummet? Chumbizo, all right, all right. It has already been said here that lead is a dangerous substance, harmful to human health, which causes damage to wildlife, birds, and on that side of the balance is clear, it has already been withdrawn from many other sectors such as paintings, gasoline, industrial activities, for example, in the activities of ceramics in this country, which there were serious problems with the personnel who were exposed to lead, and so on. That's more than clear. On the other side of the scale, perhaps, you can argue that the size of ammunition used for nature hunting is considered to be greater or less. It could be bigger or smaller, evidently smaller, than when used in paintings, pipes, etc. That's a quantitative question, you can say. It can even be argued that hunters would have an economic disadvantage, because it can be. So what we should value is what we put forward, if people's health, if biodiversity conservation and, therefore, bird damage, or if we put on the balance and give more weight to the interests of a particular collective. We have it clear, we have it clear that you can't go back, you have to go forward, and much more in an activity that is an activity of leisure, sport, in which it doesn't make sense to cause this damage when there are alternatives to lead ammunition that have already been put into practice in some country without any problem. I don't know what the People's Group's position is going to be about, whether it's going to interfere with this proposal or not, I don't know. But it is also true that the Hunting Law itself – and so we express it during the debate – has a clear thing that favors the hunters no longer, but a kind of hunters; for also within the hunters there are voices discriminating with the Hunting Law. There are hunters who are saying that the mountain has to be everyone's, that it has to be shared, that no one can be excluded from the mountain. So we think we need to amend the Hunting Law at this point. And we also urge you to change, in order to take up the recommendations of the People's Valedor in something that we have already manifested in our amendments, which is that the Hunting Law, the new Hunting Law, does indeed walk backwards, and allows hunting in paved tracks whenever they are not marked. The People's Valedor recommends that relevant policy changes be made to eliminate asphalt areas, asphalt pathways, and include as security areas. This also shows that the law was made with a clear negation of favoring the criterion of a collective, that of hunters, against other collectives, who also enjoy the mountain and also have the right to enjoy the mountain and share it with these other collectives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u42	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning. The first thing I want to say is that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Proposal for a law that has a small, reduced text, perhaps with an excessively short holiday, which we consider, in any case, at its own time, that might be superior. And we are aware that this is an issue that is not open to discussion. It's true that the Hunting Law is recent, it's December 2013, so this same legislation, but it's right to be this bill to our understanding. And I'll explain why. All groups have just reported that the lead of the perdigons that many hunters continue to use in their beats is one of the most poisonous and contaminant agents of nature. Hundreds of perdigons are abandoned year by year, and this causes toxicity, both for wild animals and for people who eat these wild animals from the hunt. It affects many organs, it's a heavy metal, and it originates neurological dysfunctions, as was previously counted as well. What happens is that birds eat it because they are unable to distinguish what is food and what is not, it's obvious. And either they eat it without more, or they confuse it with the stones they usually use – including the birds themselves – to process their food. And when they ingest it, they stop eating and then die in a few days. The birds themselves that eat prey or wagons that have been shot can also suffer problems and therefore die as a result of lead ingest, because they say experts that there are even deaths of birds in danger of extinction – such as the breakers – for this reason, because they eat other birds that have eaten, in turn, lead. According to the Institute of Research in Cinematic Resources, several thousand birds die in Spain each year, and one million – more or less – throughout Europe, for this reason. If lead is already banned in paintings or fuels, the mandatory question is why it is not going to be banned in any kind of ammunition, for all kinds, therefore, of environment. We cannot deny that lead exists, that in Galicia there is lead contamination, and in fact almost two years ago, in an article published in a specialized scientific journal, researchers from the CSIC, the University of Vigo and the Institute of Marine Research from the CSIC, said that there is very severe lead contamination in the sediments of the Arousa River, specifically in the southern margin. This damage is not free of charge, and it is affecting the main greenhouse area of Galician aquatic birds, which is the intermaral complex Umia-O Grove-Carreirón, a wet area of international importance, according to the Ramsar Convention. That means not only birds are affected, but therefore the environment, but also the marine resources of the area. Therefore, knowing the district of Arousa and its circumstances, the economic resources of all the people who live from the seafood banks in the district of Arousa; of many families who live from these resources. More than two years ago, the Galician Natural History Society quoted three texts, our 2007 Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act, the Birds Directive, and a very long text, which has a very long title, which is called "A Instrument for Ratification of the Agreement on the Conservation of Afro-Euro-Asian Migratory Birds", which was signed in The Hague in 1996. The Galician Natural History Society quoted these three texts, quote them expressly to the Ombudsman, and the defender of the people replied – more than two years ago – that in all the Welsh wetlands it is forbidden not only the use of lead perdigons, but also any type of ammunition containing lead, including posts and bullets. The Directorate-General for Conservation of Nature of the Galician Union, which at that time – more than two years ago – was the People's Party, did not feel the same as the people's defender; therefore, he made another decision. Last November, in Quito, specialists and ecological organizations and conservationists agreed on the prohibition of any type of lead ammunition; a ban which was approved by more than a hundred countries participating in this convention, of which the drafter of this bill spoke. It was not easy because this decision involved replacing lead munitions with non-toxic alternatives, for example, by steel dumplings, and it was the initial rejection of the European Union. During the negotiations in the final text, as has already been said here, even the former Minister for the Environment of the People's Party – who was showered in cold water – claimed that it would not be approved because they weighed more – for him – the interests of the companies that manufacture ammunition in some countries of the European Union, including Spain. In the end, however, the dialogue and the defence of the environment succeeded in convincing the representatives of the European Union, who voted in favour. Finally, within three years of November 2014, by this resolution which was adopted in Quito, it will be mandatory to replace ammunition with lead in all environments. And that is precisely why we first said that for us, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is right to be this bill, because the Hunting Law was December 2013 and this convention was later in time. Go ahead, we socialists are not against hunting. Go ahead, we know about the rebounds that produce lead-leaded ammunition projects in rifles; that we also know that it's going to be very difficult – so experts tell us, by overpressure in camera – to use leadless bullets in shotguns, but we think this is just a matter of improving the technique. That is possible, just as it was possible – and probably more expensive – in the fields of paintings – as we said before – but it is not impossible, it is simply a matter of technical improvement. We understand that this is the moment when the hunting world must demonstrate, as it is true, that it is in favour of the conservation of the environment, of the active conservation of the environment, and this precisely deals with this initiative. This bill, which we would then debate, we understand that it is one more step in this commitment, one more step than we would like this House to – and therefore Galicia – exactly like Denmark, there is nothing more and nothing less than 35 years ago. To finish, I wanted to talk about a book that was presented in this House the other day and comes to the case. It's a book by Fina Casalderrey entitled Icia wants to change the world. And precisely Fine Casalderrey writes a letter to the Members of this House, because this book takes place in this House, and it talks about the environment and the use this House has to make of the words. Write him a letter that she thinks should be a popular legislative initiative, and tell us: we know well that you make laws and that from Parliament, with the force of words, you can change things that are wrong for all citizens to live better. In this letter he writes, as 10,000 firms need because it's a popular legislative initiative, and he doesn't have them, he says, "Grand Félix has an increasingly small eye, it's worth picking them up because he's not able to bring together 10,000 signatures of people who want to save Penaval, not even so many between neighbors and neighbors. That's why we send them the tracks of many different birds." She talks about birds, but actually it's wrong and then it's about birds: "If they tell them well, they're more than 10,000 safe firms, but as we had no more than 167 postcards to start in four parts, and some broke unintentionally, in many cases the footprints of several small birds at once, but it's already noticed that they're caught differently. They also carry the names of birds – sorry, birds – in a white sticker. If there's a crazy girl who can appreciate the importance of the environment and ask for it here, claim it here, in this House and, therefore, in this house, we understand that we too should give her a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. And thanks for the publicity of a beautiful book by Parliament of Galicia. People's Group. Mr. Freire Abeijón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u45	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. He was asking a direct question in his speech, Mr. Sánchez, asking what the position of the People's Party would be when discussing this bill. I want to reassure Mr Sánchez and tell him that we are going to admit consideration of this bill, like the rest of the lords, but nudging a number of aspects. The autonomous regulations on hunting are basically represented by Law 13/2013, of 23 December, of Galician Hunting, and by Decree 284/2001 of 11 October, so the Galician Hunting Regulation is approved. In addition, the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act provides for the prohibition of the tenancy and use of ammunition containing lead during the pursuit of hunting and sporting shooting, when these activities are carried out in wetlands included in the list of the international wetlands convention, in the Natura 2000 Network itself and in protected natural spaces. considering his possession and use an administrative offence. The Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council itself and the People's Group of this Parliament are aware that the use of lead perdigons for hunting in wetlands is of fundamental concern throughout the European Community, largely because of the pollution that can cause in the waters and also the risk that it poses to some species of aquatic birds by ingests. However, in order to enforce the provisions of Article 62.3(j) the Resolution of 10 October 2008 establishing a list of Galician wetlands prohibited from the use and use of ammunition containing lead perdigones during the hunt is published. The annex to this resolution contains all Galician wetlands which prohibit the use of ammunition hunting containing lead perignons. In addition, wetlands that integrate into a humid complex are expressly indicated by presenting a common spatial linkage. In this resolution, however, each wet zone is identified and the surface of the areas in which the tendon and use of lead munitions is prohibited for hunting is also marked. Conscious of the importance of the gradual establishment of the prohibition, in the last amendment of the Galician Hunting Act, in its article 85.7, the classification was established as a serious infringement of the use of ammunition containing lead, contravention of Law 42/2007, of December 13, of the natural heritage and of biodiversity. The conclusions and recommendations of the international conferences mention, among other things, the elimination of the use of lead munition, and consider the substitution of non-toxic toxic munitions as the only long-term solution to significantly reduce the mortality of wild birds by lead poisoning related to ammunition. However, to carry out this transition to non-toxic ammunition, it highlights the need to address a number of social issues to help in this process. The very perceptions of hunters on the subject of chumb poisoning, and restrictions on their use, are different. In particular, there are differences between countries and cultures, also affecting issues relating to the rights to have weapons; there is the belief that lead ammunition is unlikely to actually be poison to wildlife; that lead poisoning is an insufficient problem to justify restrictions, and various perceptions of the effectiveness, availability and price of non-toxic alternatives. So from now on, it follows that, before establishing a ban on the use of lead munitions, a number of initiatives are needed to raise awareness and promote the use of non-toxic alternatives for the different stakeholders, which would contribute to the gradual elimination and complete substitution of lead munitions. To this end, it is useful, in the transition to legislative changes and non-toxic alternatives, that hunting organizations, wildlife managers and conservation organizations themselves promote the gradual elimination of lead in ammunition. The Conference of the Signatory Parties to the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals – in its 11th edition – of the Bonn Convention, held in Quito, adopted a resolution in defense of biodiversity establishing a series of recommendations, including the gradual elimination of the use of lead munitions in all habitats, both wet and land, and replacing with non-toxic alternatives in the next three years, as an approximate deadline, in order to carry out and develop these policies. They must inform the Conference of the Parties, COP12, in 2017, working with stakeholders in implementation, promoting the leadership of ammunition users in safe alternatives, and recovering contaminated contours with lead ammunition when appropriate. The Greek Government will deepen its efforts to address this need, if it deems it necessary, prior to any regulatory change, to raise awareness of lead poisoning by using non-toxic alternatives and better cinematic practices, prioritising awareness-raising initiatives in the search for better results. In any event, any regulatory review should go in the same direction as the guidelines set out in the XI Conference of the Parties to the UN Conservation on the Conservation of Migratory Species and Wild Animals. Since there is currently a regulation prohibiting the tenacious use and use of ammunition containing lead perigones during the pursuit of hunting in the various wetlands of Galicia, it is considered appropriate to establish as a strategy, to facilitate social acceptance and the effectiveness of prohibition towards the future, gradually eliminate lead ammunition from non-toxic alternatives, within an approximate three-year period, in all habitats, including land habitats; a period which is consistent with the recommendations for the gradual elimination of the use of ammunition established at the XI Conference of the Parties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to admit consideration of this bill, making it clear that in the debate of this bill, and through the various amendments, we will have to look deeply, with technical criteria, at which are the appropriate deadlines for the entry into force of this holiday law. Nothing else. Good morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u46	Thank you very much. Replica round of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. From the scene, Mrs. Pontón. From the scan, because it's three minutes and the three-minute interventions are done from the scan. Mrs. Pontón, from the scene. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] In everything. This is a proposition... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Oh, no! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u47	It's okay, President. It's good for mankind to be wrong. I think there's no problem. Very briefly. Simply saying that we're going to keep the positive part that today takes into consideration a legal change that you want to make in respect of our environment. In that sense, this is what must stay here. We are in a position to talk about the deadlines, and that will also condition our final position, but having very clear what the horizon is, and that, indeed, we have to go towards an eradication of this munition which is polluting, which is dangerous to the environment and which is causing a serious environmental conservation problem. I also want to say that I don't think it's very appropriate to mix up the problem that there can be noise pollution with a debate about hunting, because I believe that, in any case, the scientific reports that there is better what they are pointing out is the problems arising from companies, other kinds of practices that have also been mentioned here, and it wouldn't be fair that there would be a bit of this in the environment, which I think is not positive. What I understand is that today, at least, we take a small step, with consideration forward, in terms of having, as far as cinematic management is concerned, practices that are more respectful and ecological. We'll see if we can make the same assessment at the end of the process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Let us turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We begin with the vote on the amendments and the dictatorship, drawn up by Commission 5a, of the Bill of Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons. First of all, we are voting on amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group contained in document No 37989. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Combined with the dictatorship, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of the Proposal for a Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 37; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u49	We voted for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, contained in document No. 37958. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, the Proposal for a Law on Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 37; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u50	We then vote on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, document No 37977. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left to the dictatorship, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of the Proposal for a Law on Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminal Sick Persons. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 37; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u51	Finally, we voted on the Ditame of the committee. We vote. Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. It is therefore unanimously approved by the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u52	We then vote on the proposed legislation of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, reform of Law 13/2013, of 23 December, of Galician hunting. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, reform of the Law 13/2013, of the 23 December, of the Galician Hunting. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This consideration is therefore unanimously approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u53	Thank you very much. We continue with the development of the agenda with point 3, which is that of full appearances. Opinion of the Economic and Industrial Councillor, on his own request, to take account of the balance sheet for RIS3
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u54	You have the floor, in your first speech, Mr. Francisco José Conde López's economic and industrial adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, innovation is an inherent aspect of our productive model and our model of competitiveness, and therefore a priority action by the German Government to support companies in the creation of value. Because I have said in this House, ladies and gentlemen – and it is appropriate to repeat it – that the Council of Galicia works to strengthen the virtuous triangle of competitiveness, innovation and internationalization with which the business history of this land has been written. This is the model for our companies to regain the vision of the future and build a new differential growth, a growth that acts as the engine of quality employment. So, as a first step, we set up three plans for and for Galicia. First it was the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, the RIS3, at the end of 2013; then the Strategy of Internationalization of the Galician Company in 2014, and lastly, a month ago, the Galicia-Industry Competitiveness Agenda 4.0. They are all ambitious instruments, of course, but instruments that count on the support of the Greek economic and social agents and that form the strategy of the Galician Union in its economic policy and industrial policy. So now is the time to start the balance of the first results, and we start in this appearance by RIS3, the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization. A balance which we bring, first, to this House to be evaluated by its lords, and which logically we will also share with all the agents of the R & D+i system. The goal is only to see the degree of achievement of the objectives set out in the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization and to introduce all those improvements that allow you to configure the most appropriate framework to favor and promote innovation in Galicia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government plans, and the Greek Government plans and defines its strategy on consensus with economic and social agents. And we will therefore, in all cases, continue to follow up on these objectives and introduce all those improvements where the measures do not work, and we will logically adopt new measures that allow us to meet the specific needs of donor production. Finally, open planning, public control planning, social dialogue planning and planning that tries to provide new solutions to economic and social agents. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization is not the strategy of the Galician Union. The Strategy of Intelligent Specialization is the Strategy of Galicia. Administration has to be a facilitator of innovation, of course, but who discovers, who generates value, who innovates, are companies, they're universities, and they're centers of knowledge. That's why RIS3 has been, from the very first moment, a shared vision with more than 240 agents of the Greek innovation system and with the whole of citizenship. Because it's not enough to be excellent here, in Galicia, you have to be excellent in global markets. So you have to bet on an R & D stuck to the ground, hit on the assets and capabilities and potential of our land. And we must logically link research and innovation to the economy -- a link that aims to achieve more impact of inputs and, of course, a link that allows us to be more efficient. This is something we are doing in Galicia, along with the 177 regions of the European Union that have also made their priorities of specialization in relation to the international context. And our vision of intelligent specialization, as you know, synthesizes itself and three challenges: the use of our natural and cultural resources; the competitiveness of our industry and the development of technologies towards healthy aging. The transcendence of these three challenges reaches the whole of the Greek economy in terms of the future, and therefore they are bound to depend on our competitiveness and growth. In this context, RIS3 is already approving its effectiveness in transforming the innovative reality of our companies. It is 220 million euros mobilised in its first year of execution, 220 million euros of public and private investment, which account for nearly 14% of the 1,600 million euros that we plan to invest by 2020. An investment, ladies and gentlemen, accompanying a total of 626 initiatives that are having practical effects. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, of 626 realities with specific projects; projects that are allowing, for example, Galicia to be the sixth autonomy in startup numbers, or that 18 large companies have set up their lines of research and innovation with new knowledge centres here in Galicia. This figure will soon be increased with the activation of the new Feder 2014-2020 budget framework, with the call of 45 million euros, to deploy in Lugo, in Rozas, an industrial and technological pole of unmanned aircraft, and with the participation, thirdly, of Galicia in the current edition of the Feder Interconnecta programme, already convened and equipped with 110 million euros. But, as you know, we're talking about this appearance of the concrete results of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization; a strategy that is being executed on the basis of four axes: support for pemes, attraction of capital, the stimulus of research through the transfer of results and, of course, the support of talent and innovative enterprise. Let me briefly explain the specific projects developed in each of these four axes. Since it can't be otherwise, our small and medium-sized enterprises are the protagonists of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization. That's why pemmes have access to the three-quarters of the instruments of strategy, and that's why pemmes are, at the moment, the recipients of 94% of all aid granted to the productive tissue. Small and medium-sized enterprises support programmes focus mainly on boosting business innovation and supporting funding to improve their technological capacity. Thus, the Connecta Peme Program is the instrument that strengthens the competitiveness of our productive tissue through collaboration. Our companies, as you well know, are small, from the perspective of their size, because innovation alone is a high risk. That's why we're promoting the collaboration of small and medium-sized companies with knowledge centres, because they can assimilate their results and bring them to the market. But above all, we are also promoting collaboration between small and medium-sized enterprises to add ideas, to add capacities and, in particular, to add more economic muscle. Finally, we are promoting collaboration in innovation as a way to make our pemes stronger, and the results show that the Welsh pemes, ladies and gentlemen, accept this model of collaboration. After two calls, the Connecta Peme program, allowed to develop in Galicia 60 innovation projects involving 245 companies and 31 technological and research centres. It's almost 46 million euros of investment that are allowing to create, or maintain, more than 700 jobs. These projects are advancing progress in strategic areas for Galicia, such as, for example, the development of new wine products, in which the shops Pazo de Valdomino, Marqués de Vizhoja, Don Bernardino or Ponte Boga participate; the design of a new prototype for biomass roasting, with the involvement of Undotech engineers, Galega of technical aids and transport Gabeiras; or the bet on more sustainable cities, involving technology companies such as Serviguide, Bahia Software, Plexus or Intelsis. For all this, but especially for the responses of small and medium-sized enterprises to this model, we are already working on a new call from Connecta Peme for 2015, a new call that will, in addition, introduce new simplification and flexibility measures that will facilitate their processing by small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, in a complementary way, pemmes continue to have our support for their innovative investments; a support which in recent times has allowed to invest about EUR 12.4 million in 77 business projects. Projects, ladies and gentlemen, that make it easier for our pemes to grow intelligently, because they facilitate the incorporation of specific machines and equipment to develop innovation projects; they allow the provision of R & D units, which consolidate their innovation capacity, with a clearly strategic vision, and they facilitate the acquisition of licenses to apply to new technologies. The second focus of the action of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization focuses on the attraction of new capital devoted to innovation, an ambition that is possible thanks to numerous and various areas, in which we highlight the research and innovation capabilities of our R & D+i agents. To this end, programmes such as joint research units, the Galician venture capital funds and cooperation within the Horizon 2020 European Programme are responding. Ladies and gentlemen, with the second call we've just solved a few weeks ago, there are 19 joint research units powered by the Galician Union in less than one year; 19 joint units that allow us to be proud of this innovative and ambitious initiative, which is generating an investment of 70 million euros in Galicia, which is creating 270 jobs and is operating in the main strategic sectors of our economy, such as energy, health, food, automotive, naval or ICT. We're talking about joint units created between Galician companies and knowledge centres that allow developing high-impact projects, and intensive knowledge, that bring to the market the advances and results of the lines of Greek R & D+i, but also – and very especially – that are serving as a tractor element for small and medium-sized Greek companies, which, in this way, will have more opportunities to add up. So, ladies and gentlemen, it was understood by the leading companies in different sectors. I am speaking in the energy sector of Natural Gas or Repsol; in the automotive sector of PSA-Citroën, Borgwarner, the Copo Group, GKN or Viza Automotion; in the naval sector of Navantia or Vulcano and Wärtsilä Iberica; in the pharmaceutical and health sector of Roche Farm and Laboratories Esteve; in the agri-food sector of Jealsa-Rianxeira, Calvo, Coren. And also ICT, I'm talking about Everis, IT TCR and Viaqua. I am talking, in short, of 18 companies, ladies and gentlemen, that before they were developing innovation projects in Galicia and that, thanks to this call from the joint units, they are developing new innovation projects, tractors for our economy, which are allowing a new ex-innovation investment of 70 million euros. The injection of venture capital and seed capital through the i2C and Xes-Innova funds is another example of our commitment to mobilise private capital and, above all, to collaborate with entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, in one year we've generated an investment of 8 and a half million euros in 22 innovation projects that confirm the bet on valuing knowledge in the market. The beneficiaries are small and medium-sized companies of technological or innovative base in Galicia, such as, for example, Health in Code, specialized in genetic diagnosis of diseases; Netex, a leading company in solutions for online training; Latitude, which works in a new model of sustainable management for textile workshops; or Cat Salvage, which is developing video games from Galicia. All of them, ladies and gentlemen, are putting their ideas into practice, are developing their projects, and to a large extent thanks to the support of funding through the venture capital funds of the Galician Union. The policy and fund-raising is of particular relevance to our participation in the EU Horizon 2020 programme. As you know, it is a European Commission programme with more than 78,000 million euros, which should allow Galicia to multiply its initial investments in innovation and, therefore, that Galicia can expand its opportunities to generate greater growth from innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we really need to be proud of the results achieved by our companies and the results achieved by our technology centres in the first year of operation of this European Horizon 2020 programme. In particular, 27 knowledge centres and companies in Greece were able to capture about 15 million euros, in 2014, linked to 33 projects, a result of which increases by more than three of the 4.7 million euros achieved during 2007, which – as you know – was the first year of the seventh framework programme, which is the direct history of this Horizon 2020 programme. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all of this data is a reliable indicator of the excellence of research and competitiveness of the Greek knowledge centres, which collected a total of EUR 10 million in the first year of Horizon 2020, and also of the growing international role and position of our companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, because they were able to quadrupulate the funds achieved. precisely, as an example of the progress of our productive fabric, I would like to mention that the newest company in Europe in receiving funding from the specific instrument for Horizon 2020 pesetas is Galician. [[Applause]] This is the spin off Torus, a company created at the Faculty of Computer Science at the University of Coruña, which seeks ultra-fast communication software solutions for the fields of finance, telecommunications and energy. And for merit, ladies and gentlemen, Torus is not an isolated case. There are three other Greek pemmes: Hidronav Technologies, Nanoimmunotech and Bridge Mediatech, which have been funded thanks to Horizon 2020's pem instrument. A path, therefore, in which we will continue to work and collaborate from the bottom of Galicia so that innovation can be installed in the DNA of our companies, and especially in the DNA of small and medium-sized enterprises. The third axis of the Smart Specialization Strategy is aggluting instruments to stimulate the transfer of results and research to the market. A transfer from the German knowledge generation agents to their value in our economic reality. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about innovation, we need to necessarily talk about transfer of knowledge. If there is no transfer of knowledge, there is, in no case, innovation. That's why we're focusing our support on knowledge centers and putting in place concrete instruments such as innovative public procurement. Support for knowledge centres, such as technological centres, universities or hospital foundations, is reflected in the reinforcement of program contracts, which facilitate the recruitment of staff and the functioning of the centres. In particular, in this case, I want to refer to technological centres and hospital foundations. We are talking about that since 2011, these hospitals and hospital foundations have received more than 11 million euros from the Galician Union, which enables them to provide stability to their policy; and also support that complements the signing of agreements and aid for the consolidation of competitive units in these technological centres that have recently reached a total of 26.3 million euros. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen, of 38 million euros devoted to our technological and knowledge centres; funds that are at the service of the research talent and innovative talent of Greek. In this sense, we have specific examples like the CTAG, which is creating an interface that allows drivers to relate to their car; better and safer, less polluting warehouses or cars. Or we also talk about AIMEN, who is investigating new forms of shipbuilding to compete with European and Asian shipyards. Innovative public procurement is another of the pillars of the knowledge transfer policy to the market, as I have just reflected. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has been a pioneer, and has national and international recognition for being a vanguard in the development of innovative public procurement projects. They know that there are initiatives, such as Hospital 2050 and the Innova Saúde program, which marked a turning point in the concept of innovative public procurement in Spain. By reaping the success of these initiatives, we have channelled support for new projects. We are talking about the Time program of the University of Coruña, so that the galego naval can face the challenge of increasing its competitiveness through innovation; the LaserPET program of the University of Santiago, so that we can move forward in new laser techniques such as the application in diagnostic radiopharmacy and biomedicine; or Tactics, of the University of Vigo, to stimulate the generation and transfer of ICT knowledge created in Galicia in the eid of telecommunications. And we will follow – in addition to these three programmes that I have just implemented – by supporting innovative public procurement in the immediate future. As you know, the development of the industrial pole and the technological and innovation pole of Rozas, in Lugo, includes, within this investment of 45 million euros, 20 million euros that will be specifically dedicated to innovative public procurement projects. Therefore, within the Euronautics sector we will continue to support our productive fabric not only for industrial development, but particularly for innovative public procurement innovation projects. Of the EUR 45 million investment in Rozas, EUR 25 million for the development of industrial pole and EUR 20 million concrete for the development of innovative public procurement projects [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth axis focuses on innovative entrepreneurship; an innovative enterprise that aims to enhance specific opportunities for the talent of Greek in intensive areas, knowledge or technologies. An entrepreneurial policy that puts emphasis on precisely the heart of innovation, which is nothing other than the Greek talent. For this reason, the German Government is making an important bet for the take-off of innovation accelerators; innovation accelerators that we are developing with exceptional partners, such as Vigo Free Zone, Tecnopole, CETAL, CEL Foundation, Galicia Biotechnology Cluster, or even Telephonic. I'm talking about examples like the accelerator Via Vigo, which, together with the Vigo Free Zone and the Galician Union, we've been able to put 20 projects in the two editions already celebrated, to which 15 new companies will be added in the third edition, which is now open. And I'm talking about the accelerator Agrobiotech, which focuses on sectors such as biotechnology, agriculture or biomass, with which we're supporting 11 vanguard initiatives, which is also combined with the Galicia Open Future programme in Santiago, in the iodine of ICT, to complement precisely the Greek map of innovation accelerators. In total, we are allocating 3 million euros to these spaces that already benefit 100 entrepreneurs from the four provinces of Greece, with the objective, precisely, that they can boost their businesses and create jobs. But in addition to supporting the talent that is decided to undertake your business, we also have the commitment that the Greek talent remains at home and that it can expand that star of scientific referents that it has and has this land. Finally, we want Galicia to have more researchers exploring the borders of science, so we've created the Opportunius program; a program that we activate with the Galician chart of the best young particle physicist in Europe, Diego Martínez. Now, with the support of the Galician Union, this scientist from Foz does his research at the University of Santiago de Compostela and forms a highly qualified team of his own, contributing to attracting more talent and thus contributing to the creation of a virtuous circle of science in Galicia [[Applause]] In this case of success, there will be others, of course, since the objective that we mark with the Opportunius programme is that there are 24 high-level scientists who are coming to develop here, Galicia, their research career thanks to the Oportunius program; a program, ladies and gentlemen, which, in addition to offering these contracts, is supporting our researchers in training and counselling programs so that our researchers are in a position to obtain a scholarship from the ERC and so they can access this type of contract. There are currently 29 trained researchers and 38 advised researchers within this program Opportunius. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Strategy of Intelligent Specialization 2014-2020, the RIS3, is supported by three major axes, among which the 220 million euros of public and private investment mobilized for just over their first year of operation are distributed. The innovation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and talent through specific instruments, reached 80 million euros, 36%. The momentum to the transfer of R & D+i and technology results from the centres mobilized 62 million euros, 28%. And the raising of funding to innovate in Galicia, with which we managed to mobilise EUR 78 million because of the panic effect on large companies is generating innovation. Large companies that allow them to be mobilised by these large companies EUR 5 per euro invested by the Galician Union. [[Applause]] As for the challenges, the challenges of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, to point out that the one related to the modernization of the Welsh industry has concentrated 60% of the investment developed by RIS3 this past year. A clear reinforcement to the German industrial sector, a clear reinforcement to the Galicia-Industria 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, which is also putting emphasis on investment and innovation within the industrial sector. Meanwhile, the innovative management of Galician natural and cultural resources, the Rete 1, has reached 27% of the funds mobilized, and the remaining 13% corresponded to the Rete 3, the development of a new healthy life model based on active aging and feeding. Therefore – and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen – RIS3 is facilitating a new quantitative leap in Galician business innovation after a very difficult time. Especially is it facilitating a qualitative leap that affects our production model, and I am convinced that among all, between the Administration, companies, technology centers, and above all thanks to our talent, we will be making the habit of innovating a piar of our values, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer going back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u56	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u57	Good morning, Counselor. It comes today to inform us about RIS3, but the concept of intelligent specialization, as it was collected at RIS3, refers to the need to concentrate the resources available for the generation and exploitation of knowledge to serve a specific number of priorities, linked to the competitive strengths and advantages, in order to give direction to the productive tissue. None of this became clear to me about what you have stated; neither what are those specific priorities nor what is the orientation of the productive tissue that is being given. At RIS3 it is recognised, among other challenges of the Greek innovation system, the small size of companies, since more than 95% of the companies in Greece are micropemes, which conditions their ability to absorb knowledge and transfer to the innovation market. And I'd like you to warn us that progress has been made in reducing this business world by micropemes, because, for example, in Vigo – the most industrial city – 93.5% of companies are micropemes, they don't reach 6 workers, which makes it difficult to develop knowledge and transfer innovation to society from there. There was also a challenge to the low traction capacity by the private sector in the development of innovation; a sectoral structure characterized by a relative specialization of sectors with very low technological intensity. I don't know if there are sectors where you're working, too, and that's what I meant when I was talking about the definition of the orientation of the productive tissue. I have the feeling that Junta has no orientation, she's waiting for others to orient her, and she's jumping, and she's giving help depends on who, without any planning from the Government of that industrial development. The lack of correlation between the most competitive and innovative activities at the international level and the Galician productive structure. There is no correlation; it seems that Galicia goes on one side as the world walks on the other. And then you were talking about the great success of bringing a scientist to Galicia, one!, and he's talking about the goal being 24; I don't know if the rest are up to him. I believe that Junta is rather short, and that this brain drain will continue in our country, of course, because there are no results in that ear. Among the strengths, we spoke of the central role of universities as Welsh agents in R & D+i support programs for companies and technology centres; and the specialization of knowledge-generating agents, such as in the health, fishing and marine crops sectors. But it does not seem that Junta was able to take advantage of the fortresses either, since the Civíco Empresarial de Compostela Forum – integrated by professional schools, entrepreneurs, social groups and I believe that the University of Santiago – is publicly demanding more funding for the Greek universities in the 2016-2020 Economic Plan, which allows them to develop research and innovation, since universities continue to complain about the cuts that prevent them, precisely, from creating that talent, feeding that talent, innovating and investigating. Entrepreneurs and social agents maintain that the government's budget reduction policy is unacceptable, and they ensure that they are paralyzing the development of university tasks in the face of the continuing deficit that remains due to their scarce, inappropriate funding from a European country. Also Bioga, which is the cluster of 47 companies and entities dedicated to biotechnology, which in 2014 accounted for 235 million euros and employs very high qualifications to 1,400 people in the state, even though Galicia occupies the sixth position of the state in this sector, according to Bioga has the potential to benefit from research being done at universities, but it misses a strategic plan, such as the one approved in the Basque Country; more industrial sole to install itself, with adequate services, and less bureaucratic jobs. Within the sector are firms such as Zeltia, Hifas da Terra – specialized in arrow innovation –, Galchimia – a leading laboratory in synthetic organic chemistry – or Amslab – which is a laboratory specialized in physical and chemical testing. Biotechnology is a emerging sector in Galicia, a community in which there is no pharmaceutical industry as yet, but biotechnology already makes 245 million a year and employs 1,400 professionals. Galicia has the characteristics to become one of the sectors of the future and drives a new economic model that escapes from the brick, which is what is creating jobs in our country. It's an industry that's part of knowledge, and here universities with professional research teams are important. The sector lacks bank funding in Galicia and site to do R+D+i. Bioga alerts about lack of industrial soil with proper services and problems to obtain licenses. In Catalonia, which is a leader in the sector – they say as an example – the pharmaceutical industry in Barcelona is found in seven industrial polygons linked to one another, which they don't have in Galicia. But also sectors as important in our country as wood, which produces more than 4% of the German gross domestic product, call for the support of the Union to be unsuccessful. It's an underexploited sector, it has 80% of wood production, but the first transformation takes place outside of Galicia. Only 5.61 % of the furniture factories are in Greek territory. It consists of an area with great potential for growth the chain of the Greek wood. The degree of specialization and automation is very low in Galicia and 90% of companies have artisanal dimensions and limited productive capacity. The 20% of the furniture produced in Galicia sells itself inside Galicia, and only 20% are exported to Portugal, the rest is consumed within the state. They demand measures that go from what kind of trees are being planted, and stop planting eucalyptus and plant quality woods for the furniture. They also demand support to innovate, to compete, to internationalisation; they do not receive support to export furniture. So it's an important sector that you didn't even appoint, and it doesn't seem like it's going to appoint either. Another sector that is demanding support from the Union to innovate and to create industry in the future is the forest sector and the agricultural sector. And the milk sector is totally abandoned by the Union. The industry located in our community in this environment specializes in products of low added value and very limited profitability. In particular, in the case of milk, we produced 40% of state milk, but the dairy industry is less than 10%, and also in products – as I said – of low added value. Therefore, it is necessary to consolidate Galicia as the main source of packaged milk; to produce products of higher value added and with different quality brands; and to open new markets to emerging products, for example, from milk to powder or butter. Each year, however, there is money available to spend on institutional advertising linked to innovation and enterprise to raise awareness – according to – the population about the values of Galicia as a solvent land for the development of projects and investments that will lead to growth to the generation of jobs. But the truth is, not a generation of jobs or innovation. And above all what you just told us, I'd like you to say how much employment has been created, and what is the quality of that job that has been created, because what we don't see is that this is going to get the Galician society out of poverty or create an industry that really creates quality jobs. But we also talk about millionaire innovation campaigns, such as the 2 million-and-a-half campaign with announcements and spots on innovation and competitiveness in the Galician industry towards the factory of the future – which is this year – which will take place in eight weeks – it will end in 2015 and 2016. In 2014 Feijóo assisted an almost identical campaign for 1.4 million euros. In 2013, almost triple for a Galician campaign. In 2012, also EUR 1 million for Galicia competitive. I mean, we're talking about more than 5 million euros dedicated solely to making propaganda that Galicia wants to innovate. You'll tell me what it's worth, Mr. Counsellor, and the one who's dedicated to counseling, really, money. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u59	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. You come to this House again and this time you tell us to balance the RIS3. From the BNG Parliamentary Group we believe that it should first take stock of what it means to cancel the bid of the bipartisan. You should come here and talk about the wind sector; a sector that is, by the way, totally absent... Don't laugh, it's not funny, after what we've known. Besides, tomorrow we're waiting for President Feijóo's answer. You should talk a little bit about the wind and energy strategies of Galicia within the RIS3. I should have, at least, quoted him. Because, look, you quoted the aeronautical four times, four times – at least I had pointed out, they might have been more and if I had forgotten some – and didn't even talk about energy once. And I bring here, because it was also summer in 2009, everything that said the same team that is in your board, Mr. Tahoces, who in that summer was talking about, for example, creating 600 million euros with the compensation fund for windmills. That same gentleman who follows on his team – just like the whole government – in that summer was talking about the need to cancel a contest that leads us to an absolute paralysis and defeat of the wind sector. And finally, the last known judgement of the Supreme Court. Well, I think today they had to say a word, at least a sentence, a line or an allusion to Galician wind sector, considering that RIS3 is part of a supposedly intelligent strategy for Galician development, and identifying the opportunities for development and growth of a region from its specialization in the specific fields of science, technology and knowledge. An allusion, a phrase, or saying something about what was absolutely a fiasco promoted by the People's Party, and which also scalded the way to make politics of Mr. Feijóo, which is to build all his politics from the falsities; I will even say: from the lies. In fact, they had such a bad conscience that within DAFO's own elaboration of RIS3 there is not a single word about energy neither in weaknesses nor in threats nor in fortitudes nor opportunities. Surely, the company that ordered him to design those power points, told him very clearly that he didn't even talk about the sectors that he didn't want later to be evaluated. So today you come here to talk about swinging. There were always, in fact, subsidy orders; there were always programs in governments and there were always companies that, in the light of these programs, were asking for those subsidies. But is this really an assessment or a balance sheet of a year and a few months in motion of the RIS3? I'd ask him to be a little more specific in his next intervention. Since the opposition groups do not provide us with any previous information that we then see is supposedly a balance, we ask them to be a little more concrete and tell us that these real ones have an economic, industrial and knowledge strategy for Galicia. We know that not in the wind, and even we get a little bad when we hear about wind competition and judgments. For example, since the first axis is the model of management of natural resources based on innovation, what are those natural resources and how you are, for example, working in the field of fishing or in the field of milk. And what kind of innovation is done, linked – you quote them – to the canteens, which really has an impact on the country. It can be a little more concrete. The second paragraph refers to the industrial model underpinned by competitiveness and knowledge. You have made reference – which you have explained to us here on different occasions – about Industry 4.0. Look, tell me, if you have a moment, the last data out. I've already collected the newspaper's own data, i.e. billing. This is from June 18, 2015, that is, a few days ago. The billing of the Welsh industry is back to negative ground in April. Just after a small rebound in March, it has again negative data far above the state average, which places Galicia in one of the communities that accumulates the greatest decline throughout the year; 1.6% according to this data. Tell us, with regard to that industrial model based on competitiveness and knowledge, that you referred – this metaphor if I believe it – to the virtuous triangle of what I was talking about, Industry 4.0, internationalization and innovation, as explained by the industry's data and behavior. This is a concrete question. And the third one, which is the model of healthy life linked to the active aging of the population. Here you were simply referring to what are the programs – more widely criticized from the field of health – of the recruitment of innovation by Sergas, and did not talk about what are the cuts in dependency and in the whole area of social services, given that we also have recent judgments that talk about the incorrectness of these cuts. So I also wanted to ask you a specific question: what are you doing at RIS3 about older and dependent people? Because the truth, in reviewing these days to prepare for this appearance, I have found a point that in other appearances I have at least been unaware of, which is a statement that you have in Annex 11, which clearly states, with regard to RIS3, that the guarantee of success in obtaining a competitive region at European level in the field of ageing for an active and healthy life requires the development and support of training and consolidation of a powerful private sector to complement the activities linked to the public sector. Now I understand why, since Feijó ruled it, there are no public day centers or residences for larger audiences, and I decided to become a powerful private sector in the aging of people. And since you've also talked about a program of prestigious scientists, recognized, I wanted you to explain to us how it's possible that you... From BNG, of course, not only can we agree that there are scientists and prestigious scientists who investigate in Galicia, but we're going beyond that, we present as an amendment to the Innovation Law – if you remember – that we are betting on an own research career for Galicia, and we have brought it on repeated occasions to debate in this House. I know you don't even see that, but I want to point it out in this section. And I want you to explain to us how it's possible that from 2009 to 2013, which is the data we have, the research staff linked to the public administration, that is, essentially to universities, has descended by 17.5%. Do you think that staff decline can be offset by hiring 24 researchers and researchers – as roadmap, which is what I exposed? What, indeed, will be the wager for the recovery of research capacity from universities, which also requires a budgetary commitment? Actually, you always talk about innovation, but you have a sort of allergy to quote the word research. And one of the phrases he said today is that there was such a transfer of knowledge, it must be a transfer to get to companies. But to transfer knowledge, it is necessary for this knowledge to be created, and created in research centers at universities. A little realization. The RIS3 that meant for research in Galicia, for hiring staff at universities, for improving research groups? We wanted it to be concrete, because we didn't see it in this intervention. And above all, and most importantly, Counsellor, a strategy that wants to reach 2020 – as you say – it has to be a strategy in which this funding is realized, not only through the word mobilization, but through the word commitment of the Greek Government, in the various years, in the Budget of the Galician Union. So, too, what is – because we still don't know it, after so many of his appearances we've heard from this forum – that schedule of RIS3 budgets? What does it mean in particular? Look, I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u60	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u61	I'm going to finish. I tell you honestly, and this is not a disqualification, of course, for you or your department, but the feeling we have many times is that the appearances of the Economic and Industry Council are absolutely abstract and ethereal. You always come here repeating big sentences, but a real analysis of how the government of Feijóo has impacted, the economic and industry advisor, on business, industrial fabric, and, for example, on pemes, after adopting an entrepreneurial law, what is the real innovation? What is the constitution of pemes and how many workers and workers are in it? We don't know that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u63	Words and more words. But on central issues, such as the energy field, no word. You'll want to forget the windmill, but no, you'll always chase them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u65	Good morning, Counselor. This is an example that, if you want to be a rigorous and serious debate, there should be a previous report, with specific data, that you can study before you show up. Because the strategy of intelligent specialization RIS3 itself speaks of indicators, of indicators to make an evaluation and follow-up, to monitor results, to make clear the values of origin, and to make clear whether or not they approach the goals marked. So, if you want a debate here where you can put something into practice, you might have sent a report with those indicators in your documentation, following the methodology that you yourself have developed, and that we could observe in certain fixed priorities, and in the fixed challenges, if you're getting the targets, if you're getting the values of origin, etc., because, of course, it's very hard for anyone to do that analysis. Whether the strategy is performing or not producing results. Furthermore, saying that the European strategy itself speaks of the need to be simple, clear and reliable indicators. They have to be indicators that talk about, for example, whether or not we were able to increase R & D spending within the stakes; if we were able to increase people who work in research, development and innovation; if the researchers went down, if they went up... those things that we all understand; there are other things that we don't understand anymore. I therefore believe that you have lost an opportunity to make a serious follow-up in this Parliament on the results of the RIS3 put in place. What we believe is that the wager for a change of production model, towards one based on innovation and knowledge, is not a proper, endogenous bet of the People's Party. The People's Party always believes that it has wagered in its policies by a more speculative model, of support for financial supremacy, of prejudice to the productive economy, and of competing on the basis of wage devaluation and with sectors that create little value and little skilled employment. The Government of the People's Party's data speak of this, they speak of this issue of the new bet of the People's Party by a productive model. On the other hand, the implementation of this strategy of smart specialization is imposed from above, it is imposed from the European Union, since it requires the allocation of structural funds to implement a strategy of smart specialization, which is what all the European regions are doing because, if not, there are no structural funds. That was the conviction of the People's Party with this strategy, a necessity imposed from above; but not what indicated the previous data of the People's Party betting by knowledge, since the previous statistics showed more clearly this government's disgust with the knowledge system, and the constant reduction of resources to the public knowledge system, starting with universities. The evolution of this data in R & D+i over recent years has shown a worse evolution in Galicia than in the rest of the state and, of course, than in Europe. Galicia shows a higher decline in investment, in R & D+i, in personal investigators, than the rest of the state, with a lot of difference, both in GDP spending and in research personnel. The latest data from the year 2013 tell us that Galicia is 0.86 % of GDP, when in 2008 it had reached 1%; and they are talking about a 20% decrease since 2008. In those years, the cuts in Galicia meant 19.8%, and in the state by 11%. So, if you had so clear that the model of future for this country, to get out of the crisis, to create qualified employment, and so on, to reverse the situation, was knowledge, why did you do – according to all the experts in research and development – an irreversible damage, which, for example, the rector of the University of Coruña will be paid for decades, since in the period 2010 to 2013 you lost your job 1,424 people working in this sector, and 1,287 were researchers, Counsellor. Most of them went out to work abroad. The damage that this means to the Greek knowledge system is not easily reversible from year to year, so it's important to know the comparative evolution of data. In 2008 Galicia occupied the seventh square among the autonomous communities that most devoted to R+D+i; in 2013 it fell to post 11. We know that the People's Party's speech is to do more with less, but I quote again the rector of the University of Coruña when he says, "It's naive to think that without resources we can do the same thing as the most competitive societies that invest more in research, such as the United States and China, which add up to 3% of their GDP, compared to 0.86% of Galicia. So there is no future," he said. Galicia ended up with programs like Pondal Research Park, whose recipients are now working in other countries. On the other hand, they also lack a strategic project for sectors where Galicia has competitive advantages. To successfully complete the research cycle and the transfer of knowledge, there must be a system of research with resources, with capabilities – that is not there – but also sectors that may be able to absorb the technology and innovation produced. Therefore, the development of this knowledge system must be accompanied by the consolidation and development of productive or public business sectors. You're also suspended there, which is the design of an industrial strategic policy. As we've already told you, a little while ago they presented what was the Strategic Industrial Plan Galicia Industry 4.0, when the law itself gave a six-month deadline. He also talked about strategic sectoral projects, including milk, energy, and he didn't do it; he had to come from Europe that need. He was talking about the intelligent strategy of concentrating resources and investments in areas where there are clear synergies with the existing and potential productive capacities of the region. It means prioritizing and concentrating expenditure on certain sectors; but that priority we don't see it anywhere. We are talking about specific issues, strategic sectors with which to create synergies. We're talking about the dairy sector. It is very easy to come here and explain in that sector, for example, what ideas are, what are the proposals, what are the objectives to be achieved in the coming years in Horizon 2020. It's not explained to us. It seems that if you want to escape reality. We can talk about the energy sector. Also, Counsellor, it is obvious that the knowledge system is important, but with a sector that you, with your decisions, have paralyzed, it is more difficult to develop the Greek knowledge system applied to energy. Do you remember the last appearance you made here when you spoke about the legality of the wind competition framework, Counselor? Do you remember what he said and that I told him – I'm not going to hang medals – that we were pending the resource he presented to the Council of Galicia before the Supreme? Well, you see what happened, that the Supreme Court considers the People's Party's decision to cancel the two-party government's wind competition illegal. Consider it illegal! His action was illegal, there was power diversion, the Supreme Court says. And you are unwilling to assume the political responsibilities arising from this case. The responsibilities that came in the form of paralysing a sector and those that may come in the form of claims for compensation for this fact. Yes, Counselor, we said it here and it was fulfilled in time. It is true that you came here and acted in such a way as to harm a sector that was obviously the leader at that time; a sector with a model that we have already said we did not share, but a sector that created jobs, created wealth in this country and which was paralyzed. They therefore crippled a very important sector. We also expect to see what this Government is going to say about the energy policy of the State Government, which declares war to renewable energies, which declares war to self-consumption and distributed generation. We would like to know what the position of the Government of Galicia in relation to the draft self-consumption decree proposed by Minister Soria, which establishes infrared economic barriers to prevent the promotion of the distributed generation of electricity, which particularly harms Galicia. We're waiting for your answer. Finally, we also want to say that you're talking about mobilizing resources from private companies, but we have a country in which companies that predominate are small-scale, and for these companies the fundamental is a public system that can be used to absorb technology, technology centers, universities. That's fundamental to the business fabric we have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u67	And you systematically cut economic resources in the budgets of the Galician Union, and these are concrete realities. When you prioritize what it's like to check businesses, they're favoring big businesses, not small and medium-sized businesses. Nothing else. Thank you very much. I'd have more things to say, but time was scarce.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u68	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, you came here to talk about RIS3, and I would ask you, as often as possible, to reject the Director General of the Galician Innovation Agency, which in the 6th Commission said that this industrialization strategy had been agreed with the parliamentary groups, that we had been consulted and that we had the opportunity to make our contributions. To me at one point it seemed to me that he was in a paranormal phenomenon, but then I asked the rest of the opposition voices and it's radically false; as you well know, I suppose, right? I would therefore like to stress that I have said here that Parliament's parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to make some contribution to this document. I say no, I say no. I think the rest of the opposition voices must say the same thing. So I'd like you to tell us something. Besides giving figures and reading company names, I'd like you to tell us something about this, because it seems like a huge gravity. It is true that today this plenary has already begun with a matter of enormous gravity, literally throwing on the edge a summons from a plenary of the Greek Parliament by the People's Party, with which, of course, we are progressively shielding ourselves. But, in any case, I insist, Counsellor, this document is yours and the consultant who did it. Don't get us in the car of the chronic failure announced, as much as an Austrian liberal had come here to say that this is the solution to the problems of this autonomous community. You know perfectly well that it's not, of course. I would recommend, with absolute intellectual humility, an article already a little old, of the year 2003, of two teachers of the Autonomous Madrid, called Vicious and virtuous Circles of Economic Development. Fontenla Guzmán in Applied Economic Studies, Volume 21, Number 2. I say this because you are interested in addressing the issue. A couple of methodological issues. I don't know if you realize that you, Counselor, have made no reference to any comparative framework, with the rest of Spain or with Europe, absolutely no one. I mean, we have this document here, of course, we have the results of public calls for support for research and innovation. I'd just miss none of them! Home!, this government has already had some merit, it was the first time in Galicia's history – at least I remember – since I graduated in 1987, that one year the university graduates of this autonomous community had no opportunity to ask for research scholarships to do their doctoral thesis. That is, at least since 1988, with the González Laxe governments, with the Fraga and Pérez Touriño governments, the first was a year of Mr. Feijóo. That is the appreciation and intensity of support for research and innovation. So, Counselor, you're a university professor: Comparative framework. Theme 1 of any social sciences manual. I'm not talking about experimental science, huh? I'm not talking about repeating experiments in the lab. But, man, some minimal frame to be able to move. Because if not, let's go to the usual, Counselor: PP, advertising and propaganda. And it's fine, it serves to fill pages in newspapers, both news and pay, as well as institutional advertising. But the truth is that the numbers and data of this autonomous community are what they are, and you know it perfectly well. Look, come here talking about Horizon 2020 as the general framework for action of the Autonomous Community of Galicia... Spain has already fallen to 2%. You guys, I want to remind you again, 0.86%. And I come back to the usual, I know it sounds a little mantra, but Ukraine and Turkey, Counselor. I mean, it's not possible to discuss or talk seriously about these issues if we're not aware of the situation from which we left. And look, in the RIS3 strategy, actually, what we're talking about, you know perfectly well that in your conformation methodology the first is the socio-economic environment. What you told us here – has ever told me any other spokesman of the opposition – is exactly the same for the subTyrol, that for Bavaria, than for Greek Macedonia. Hey, there'll be some difference. I, of course, am not suspicious of being a nationalist, who they are not, but of course, an economic space has specific features that need this document not exactly the same if here instead of putting smart specialization in Galicia, we put smart specialization in the Portuguese Alentejo, because obviously something is not doing well. And the socio-economic environment, Counselor, you know exactly what it is. You know which one is in Galicia and you know which one is in Spain. And he knows what the economic model of the People's Party is where he rules. I always say, Mr. Rajoy's second measure was to freeze 600 million euros of R+D+i. He frozen that and the minimum wage. I think it's all a reflection and a reflection of what is an economic model. But the problem is, he didn't freeze when he arrived. The problem is that within the R & D+i, university research – and then we still have to listen here to the Education Advisor, and to the PP's education spokespersons, basically saying that the rectors complain about vice – has lost 1/3 of their funds. Obviously, it seems good to me that university fees are frozen because the economic situation is what it is. By the way, I probably think it's better, here if, a more powerful scholarship policy, it won't be that with the chau-chau-chau this to freeze university fees, and tightening and cutting university scholarships dramatically, we're acting exactly against equity in access to higher education. Of course, we are all able to think a little bit about what certain political measures mean. And the framework, Counsellor, the framework for action, is the essential public policy action in innovation. And you know why? Because on Friday, June 19, 2015, the press headlines with sources from the Banco de España, which I imagine are little suspect – taking into account that Mr. Linde governs – of Marxism-Leninism, said that the credit is founded on the historical minimum in Galicia. So, in this context of a continuous drop in credit, even though it was said that the new bank, at last with remarkable economic successes, was going to transfer 9,000 million euros to the productive fabric and to the families of Galicia, gives the impression that it is not, therefore, financing down. The average cost of homes falls for the sixth consecutive year in Galicia, therefore, the demand at the bottom, Counsellor. And these are the scenarios where we move in all the macroeconomic variables that we can talk about, and therefore the public is essential. And when we get to the point that the public is indispensable, what do we find? We found budgets and execution. And in the budgets, you also know perfectly well, the reduction in programme 56, Research, Development and Innovation, is EUR 150 million since Mr Feijóo's rule; EUR 150 million, I insist, in terms of budgeting. And then, in execution, they left without spending another 200 million euros. So, in total, we have... yes, sir, counsellor, data from the Galician Joint Intervention. In fact, if every time I give data from the Galician Joint Intervention you're making a face for scepticism, or half of a joke, you're going to die to the general intervener or intervener! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, Counselor! I mean, maybe he's a salesman to international socialism, or he's sold, I don't know very well whether he's a man or a woman. But anyway, they're either fine or they're wrong. If you're okay, these are the ones. I, if you like, then I'll give you the president of the Bureau to transfer them and you tell me what needs to be changed here, on these two Excel sheets. Tell me what changes. And really, if they're wrong, they change that general intervention, because they really have a fifth columnist there. Of course! It's good to laugh I don't know very well what! It's 150 plus 200 million euros seised from the model. How many researchers were hired, those of you who pass through Galicia – with all my respect to people, eh! – as if they were the incorruptible arm of Santa Teresa. Because we've got one, eh! By the way, we've got a recovery, and the most-known researcher at the University of Vigo, which was Luis Liz Marzán, is in Ikerbasque in the Basque Country. We should also balance the numbers and the numbers. Counselor, look, there's a question that's absolutely relevant, and then I'll go a little bit to it, because I think the appearance hasn't adjusted, at least to my expectations. It's true that I might have had high expectations. There is an April of this year document from the European Commission, which says textually: monitoring mechanisms of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization. I can pass it on to the President of Parliament too, so that he can get it to you, because whatever looks like between his intervention and what is the script of what he puts here, is – as it is said in the films – just coincidence. And in this case, the mere coincidence is pure and simply zero. Because, you know what the Intelligent Specialization Strategy essentially needs? First, to be aware of the framework in which it develops, a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u71	It's over, Mr. President. Second, to have confidence in that Anglo-Saxons – I don't know very well how to translate it, although some may laugh at me – they call themselves stakeholders, or acting agents. Finally: companies, consumers, administrations... these small details of no importance. But in any case, you didn't tell us anything about it. Here, in these European documents, Mr. Counsellor, do not ask us for company names, do not ask us for that. They ask us for results of innovation, and for the transfer of research and innovation to productive tissue. And you know perfectly well, Counselor, that in immature economic models – and unfortunately Galicia is – or there is a strong public bet for innovation, before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u73	...or private agents have very little to do. By the way, it's good to talk about AIMEN, but it would also be good if some of the problems of which AIMEN members are repeatedly complained that the sector is literally "centrifuged", an important part, by the political decisions of this government. I guess you heard it, didn't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u74	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u75	Therefore, there is good publicity and propaganda, but, Counsellor, a minimum of cases from the guidelines of the European Union, not only from the Commissioners of the Austrian Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u76	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u77	Mr. President, Mr. Conde, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, listening here is always selective perceptions of what others say. In particular, what was intended to expose – or at least so I understood it, this popular group understood it – is the exhibition by the Council of Economics and Industry of the state of innovation policy and development. I mean, this particular aspect to account for. So it's a monographic intervention on this aspect. But the opposition didn't come this subject. He said, why didn't he talk about, for example, the vicious and virtuous circles of the economy, methods? Why don't you talk about credit? Everything is related to everything, but everything has, like this, your position... Whether or not to talk about energy. At least I heard things about energy, specifically at the second point. That is, when the strategies are said, he explained the strategy of pemes, a strategy of capital attraction, and he even said energy, health, food, etc., and he even mentioned energy companies that are in this; but in the opposition they didn't see it, they didn't hear it. We're talking about the university problem, whether we're actually plowing the university or not, when it's a specifically monographic theme. Because we have a situation, on the one hand, of falling students. We have to analyze very seriously what the ratios, reasons, investment per student, etc. would be. I mean that everything has an order, these plenarys are very long, we have committees, we have these plenarys and everything is covered in the parliamentary debate. We actually saw a kind of accountability and explanation of the dynamization strategy of a topic. This parliamentary group understands that if it answers the really key question. I mean, it's done and how it's done. First for this spokesman for the People's Group industry, there's something in context that I think should be pre-emptive for everyone, and everyone should know, and that's why the recession was contained. Are we in recession or aren't we? Did the People's Party achieve or not, conquer or not, the task of stopping the recession? I don't mean to start an accelerated economic development process anymore, but did you stop or didn't stop the recession? The inherited situation of indebtedness and progressive growth of unemployment, destruction of productive tissue and fall of all public administration revenues, which created this probability of insolvency, did you stop or not? We have to answer this, we have to give it to you of course. And we know that we stop the recession, that we start a model of much higher alternative possibilities. And say they don't give us some papers? We have an intellectual and political respect for the parliamentarians of the opposition, and we assume that they follow the parliamentary dynamics, which know all the data. You don't always have to be giving the first lesson in reports. It's out of respect, because they're supposed to know the context, they know the politics of the Union, and they know exactly what the central critical points of the debate are, not the peripheral problems, which can somehow fill an intervention of ten minutes, five, etc., to get critical, but not go to the center of the fundamental problem. Here, Counselor, it was like we said again. We're in politics, there's an industrial context, even specific, here in Galicia. We are in the general line of progress, of restraint of recession and progress in the economy of the Spanish ensemble, which is precisely one of the most prominent, which is being observed today in Europe; that is the context. Why is Spain working? Why is Galicia working? Within that context we can think of, are we going at the same pace or not, why? And we see there's no simultaneousity, everybody knows. It's not a problem of economists anymore, it's a problem of common sense. There is no simultaneity in economic spaces in Spain, Galicia and Extremadura, etc., as there is no even among provinces, but the general trend is positive in foreign trade, in industrial development, in indexes, in better employment. What's wrong? Of course there are problems! Obviously! But there's a general trend: there's a fundamental mutation over previous years, it seems to be obvious. This context can be discussed, and we can discuss it. And in that context, what are the problems of public indebtedness to recycle previous indebtedness? How did the People's Party do financial policy? How did the Socialist Party support nationalists? What alternatives to financial, monetary, industrial and economic policy are the new forces from different areas, such as municipalities, provincial capitals? We can analyze, we all know the contexts, but in that context, and for a field of specialization that always has parliamentary policy, of monographically discussing specific areas of work, here is an alternative, here is a concrete strategy. First point, center the development axis to enhance pemmes, which have structural weakness problems so it cannot be done, and which make R+D+i investment processes difficult. And he added an important part to the advisor on this subject because it's our policy: to centralize the pemmes. But we also know that there is a need for important resources where the venture capital societies of the Union exist, where there is an investment attraction policy. Yes, we want foreign capitals to come to Galicia, capitals outside Galicia. We have that concept open, if we want it. So, we take initiatives, that's another one of the points, of the central axes, we're open. And we also want European funds to come. Some may say – as Mr. Sánchez said, of AGE – that you really are in line with European policies. Let's see, we have to try to get European policies to invest in Galicia too. All the instruments of regional policy or you can't debate, but there are things that are already part of the fundamental elements of regional economic theory, space theory, etc. We must try to partially rebalance the territory, even with the discussions on the real effectiveness of subsidies and other elements directed from the public sector. Because the public sector can't say it's good for everything or bad for everything. He then explained the transfer tools: technological centres, innovative public purchasing incentives and innovative enterprise as well; that is, areas of work that any general political manager knows that where the fundamental problem is materialized, that is to try to get all the elements that exist in a society, and that don't make private companies exclusively for themselves, big businesses, to reach the whole of society, to the whole of industrial fabric. It seems to me that there's really one problem here, we always go back to certain kinds of critical points, within that conception of having to touch this, we have to touch the other. Don't touch this, we play this at another time. We're always saying the same things. We know that things have to be done now, in a context. First, minimize the use of public indebtedness. Secondly, seek the maximum profitability of initiatives and investments; because also the public sector – for us at least – must be subject to the rule of effectiveness and rationality. And here there's effectiveness and rationality, there's an overview of the whole of what's the economic policy of the Galician Union, the policy of promoting openness, the policy of promoting investment entry, etc. You can say, and it's not about furniture, milk, too? They also deal with all those sectors. Finally, for our part, we consider it to be going on a reasonably appropriate path. There is a tone and a taint not triumphalist, but serious, of analytical discipline and awareness of the limitations of things. Also of knowledge. You can't devalue with papers. I mean, when there are no arguments, the papers always appear. But here is conception, strategy and mindset. Yes, it always happens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u78	Mr. Fajardo, be quiet. Let's not start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u79	I've always been able to write books, Mr. Fajardo. And a thousand pages, look at you, you know? When I was young, and now I'm not as old as I am. If it looks like you, I hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u80	Quiet, please. Quiet. No dialogue, Mr Arias. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u81	...I hope that, in addition to the bulldozers, you will someday be able to do a work of interest. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u82	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Replica from Mr. Economics and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, we're used to the fact that every time this councillor makes a appearance, you intend to divert the debate, the content of the appearance, either to a general analysis and debate of the economic situation of the Autonomous Community, or, as today, to raise other issues that have nothing to do with the content of the appearance itself. I will, logically, be glad to come to the House and give the timely explanations of any kind of subject that would like to object, but I think that, in order to be rigorous, it is worth focusing on the content of the very appearance. Many of the interventions actually reflected comparative data on the evolution of R & D+i policy until 2013, which is indeed the last year of what we have data to compare with. I think I said from the very first moment, and so it is reflected in the proposed appearance, that I was actually going to talk about the reality of the actions of this Government during the last year, that is, from the year 2014, and therefore logically remitting myself to those kinds of actions and realities. Logically, we will have the opportunity to speak of these indicators that are collected in our own RIS3. It is not simply that we ask them to oppose them, that of course, but that this assessment and follow-up of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization is reflected. And logically, we would also be delighted, constructively, to make comparisons with other autonomous communities when they make that balance. What we're talking about here is the application, over the past year, of the objectives and challenges posed in the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, and I think that the opposition deliberately omits that situation, that reality, I don't know whether often because you don't want to do an analysis of your own reality – that's what it looks like in your interventions – or simply because you don't want to make specific proposals. Mr. Losada, this Government is considering the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization as a living document, in which, indeed, we are collecting all the contributions that are proposed by the R & D+i system. So it seems that you want to omit these proposals, and many times – and that is, if you allow me, the most worrying thing – it seems that what you want is to discredit not only the Administration, but the companies themselves, the knowledge centers themselves, which are actually making an effort. Everyone, it seems in this country, except the opposition, we're making an effort to be able to innovate more and better, and in that objective it seems that you only look at the past and don't want to see reality. I don't know that you disagree on the challenges of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization; today I don't know. I don't know that they disagree with the different instruments we're developing in the Smart Specialization Strategy. I do not know if you do not agree that, indeed, we encourage public-private collaboration; I do not know whether you do not agree that – indeed, Mrs Martínez – we set priorities within the Government very clearly. Of course, we have these challenges that mark a clear priority for natural resources, and logically for energy resources, to which I will refer later. Of course there is a clear bet for industrialization, and of course there is a clear bet for active aging. And within these priorities, I have clearly marked concrete, selective actions that this Government is doing. I don't know if you agree or not that this government bets on the aeronautics sector; I don't know. I don't know if you agree that this government is betting on the biotech sector with the specific accelerator Agrobiotec, which in addition to bet on biotechnology, is betting on the agri-food sector and the biomass sector. This Government, ladies and gentlemen, has invested more than EUR 43 million in public funds in support of the biotechnology sector, which has mobilized more than EUR 72 million, with more than 300 beneficiaries within the biotechnology sector. A sector that in addition, ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 was able to increase R & D spending by more than 30%. We speak clearly of clear and concrete priorities, and what I would like to know is, within the exhibition, with perfectly concrete instruments and investments that the Administration is making, in which you do not agree. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia, its companies, its technological centres, are getting better and better, they're innovating more, and they're concrete data, and they're changing to a clear culture of innovation. Our small and medium-sized companies are increasingly working together, this government knows and is working with them so that, in fact, R & D investments do not assume a bottleneck in their investment plans. That's why 94% – I said in my intervention – of all the aids that made this Government available in the first year of execution of the RIS3 were destined precisely for that productive fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises. So this government is clear. But this Government is also clear, Mr Losada, that the aim is to attract private capital, indeed, because it knows this Government – and it is demonstrated with data in the first year of implementation of the RIS3 – that for each euro invested supporting large companies five euros are mobilised, which does not logically happen, as it cannot be otherwise, with small and medium-sized enterprises. And, Mr. Losada, we haven't focused either on Turkey or Ukraine, I understand you do. We have focused precisely on countries like Germany, such as Finland, like Japan, where there is a private investment content in innovation far superior to what we have here, in Galicia and Spain. And, logically, the goal of this government is that Galicia, which has already made a very important effort to move from private investment to more than 42% in R & D spending, Galicia is currently at 52%, under the average of Spain, 53%, but also under the average of the European Union, which is about 60%, and also largely under Japan, where private investments account for 80% of all R & D spending. What don't you agree with? Do you not agree to promote public-private collaboration and therefore greater private sector investment in Galicia? It's the government. And that's why this government is supporting these joint innovation units, which are reporting an investment of 70 million euros, with the creation of quality jobs, more than 270 researchers, and new jobs that were created through these joint ventures, through the bet of large companies for innovation in Galicia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a bet of concrete data that reflects precisely those objectives that were marked in the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, and I regret that permanently Mr. Losada and the rest of the opposition question the European Commission's recognition of the work carried out by the R & D+I agents with the RIS3 in Galicia. In fact, the Commissioner has boasted this Strategy of Intelligent Specialization. I remind you that the European Commission makes decisions collectively, there's no kind... Mr. Almunia was in the College of Commissioners and also approved the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, although you seem to care. [[Mr. Losada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's true, and this autonomous community has been able to make the European Union available a strategy of smart specialization defined by Galician R & D+i agents. The Intelligent Specialization Strategy is not a strategy for this advisor or government, it is a strategy for intelligent specialization of R & D+i agents. And you know perfectly well that Galicia and this government have been able to put their own resources, without waiting for the implementation of the European Funds 2014-2020, to put in place the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization with this 220 million euro mobilization, of which 113 are public. There are other autonomous communities that, unfortunately, are still closing the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have already been able not only to have that recognition of the European Commission, but to put in place the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, and therefore to make available to the productive fabric and the technological centres the resources – I insist – belonging to the Council of Galicia without waiting for the implementation and execution of the new European Funds 2014-2020 [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we clearly continue to bet logically on the three challenges. The strategy has three specific challenges, there's a very clear document, and here's what we're assessing is whether we're actually working in the right direction. There's a clear goal of betting on natural resources, industrialization and active aging. I think I've made it clear that this Government not only has strategy, not only plans, but also sets priorities, and within the framework of renewable energies, I think it's clear. Tomorrow we will launch an experimental park in Punta Langosteira precisely to deepen on innovation projects in the iodine of the undimotrix, and this government, as you know perfectly well, is making a very clear bet for the development of biomass and the general development of renewable energies. Therefore, in this challenge 1, of indigenous resources in Galicia, there is a very special protagonist in renewable energies and, in general, energy resources, where – as you know – we are being able to attract investments from companies like Repsol and Natural Gas that are allowing to consolidate innovation projects in Galicia. And, of course, at RIS3 industry 4.0 has a special role. 60% of all investments that took place this first year, within these 220 million euros, are directly related to industry 4.0 and therefore to the industrialization of our productive tissue. We're making a clear bet, in that sense, by the smart factory, for making our industry more competitive, because the economic recovery we're working on, with a clear trend in the right direction, will of course necessarily go through the strengthening of business fabric. I was told by Mrs Martínez, among other things, about the Opportunius programme and also about the gambling of universities in the field of innovation. As you know, all the resources that are being mobilized by this Government, and which directly impact on the income that universities have, are outside the funding framework, so every time we talk about these nearly 40 million euros between the different innovation programmes, and the participation of universities in the Interconnecta-Conecta Pemes programme, every time we talk about these terms we are talking about additional resources that universities have within the funding framework. Therefore, the clear universities that are in the backbone of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, and they are – I insist – additional resources that have at their disposal universities, in addition to those already obtained by the funding framework. And logically, the Opportunius program is clear that it's a talent bet. It's a talent bet, ladies and gentlemen, of those scientists who are able to obtain a scholarship from the European Research Council. So we're talking about researchers who are able to attract more resources to innovate and investigate in Galicia. Of course, we have a successful case, and we will continue to work so that, in fact, more researchers who obtain the scholarship from the European Research Council can develop their activity here in Galicia, because they will be greater synergies and greater resources. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, I said in my speech, we are supporting our researchers, training them and advising them, so that our Welsh researchers are in the best possible conditions, so that they may be other Diego Martínez and the rest of the researchers who have already obtained this scholarship. We will continue to bet on excellence, we will continue to bet on research in Galicia, and of course we will continue to bet on this programme because there is research linked to these scholarships of the European Research Council. I was told by Mrs. Adam that it seems that this Government only transfers its information through the aid orders. It's not true, I think I spoke clearly of a strategy and I spoke clearly of a clear objective of bringing innovation closer to small and medium-sized enterprises, with concrete actions, beyond what you probably know of the Bipartite era, which were the different orders of help that continue to develop for the renovation of machinery, for investments, but I sincerely believe, Your Honor, that you must of course continue to complete these instruments with others. I still don't know what the Galician Nationalist Block thinks about the development of joint research units. I don't know what the Galego Nationalist Block feels about the development of innovative public procurement, which benefits our productive fabric. Finally, I don't know what is the position of the Galego Nationalist Block on priorities that we are marking in very specific sectors, such as the aeronautical sector. It seems that you do not like me speaking so much about the aviation sector, but it is indeed one of the priorities we have in this Government. From AGE I was told of a strategy imposed by the European Union. I really feel that the whole process has been lost and that they are unable to share that there is a clear strategy of the R+D+i system, that this government is working with the R+D+i system, that it is working with small and medium-sized enterprises and that it is working with large companies so that there is indeed a clear policy of innovation that allows greater competitiveness of our productive fabric. Taxation, Your Honor, none. You might want to impose your policies on your government partners in the wind competition, but there is no European Union tax on innovation. I was told that Galicia had gone down to post number 11. Well, I'm sorry, and I simply refer to the statistics of the National Institute of Statistics. Galicia, for my part, by giving you a reply, was the sixth autonomous community in technological innovation spending in 2013, with a 1,6 % increase in industrial sector spending, and the sixth autonomous community, also in 2013, in number of innovative companies; and it was, Your Honor, the sixth autonomous community in innovation intensity in the total number of companies. So, I think, if we talk about data, it's also good to do it with a certain rigor, and of course, Your Honor, I can't accept that expression that the Government grants to businesses. Look, this government does everything through the DOG, it does everything with transparency, it does everything with publicity, and from there on, all we're developing is that our small and medium-sized companies, our technology centres, have at their disposal the right resources to develop their policies. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE suggested that these budgets are not executed. I regret that you insist, when you know perfectly the wager that this government has for innovation; you know perfectly well that in 2013 30% of the innovation budgets were increased, and you know perfectly well that 1 out of every 3 euros of this board actually has a clear orientation to innovation. We'll go on that line, because betting on innovation is how we can make our productive fabric more competitive. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this meeting has a clear objective, which is to transfer to the House, in a transparent and clear manner, all the budgets that were carried out by this Government and all the investments made by the productive sector in the implementation of RIS3 in its first year. An application, since 2014, which is allowing Galicia not to have to wait for the European Funds 2014-2020 to support its productive fabric, and logically a strategy that will be evaluated permanently, as the document itself collects, with the R & D+i system and, logically, with this Parliament. And, of course, a clear government bet for this strategy of smart specialization to actually be the roadmap and the guide and support that companies need, that they need knowledge centres, to develop this innovation policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u84	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u85	I, Counselor, with all due respect for the world, think we live in different countries. A country of wonders where there is an investment and an important interest of the administration towards the growth of pemen, innovation, technology, export and quality. And a reality of micropeme that doesn't have enough support, from abandoned sectors like the wind. When you talk about energy, you're not talking about wind, this year they touch biomass, until at a time given the People's Party decides that neither, depending on the interests of Natural-Fenosa Gas fundamentally, that decides what the energy projects of the Galician Union are. Because geothermal was going to be a bet, but there was also stopped geothermal. And I wonder, why all that empty speech? And they come here and say that the opposition is already against innovation, the opposition is against supporting pemes, opposition... the opposition is not against. The opposition is tired of propaganda that doesn't lead anywhere and doesn't look in society. For example, he didn't tell me how much quality jobs he creates. How many micropemes have stopped being micropemes, microenterprises. How many plans that brought together business interests of cooperation towards better development, to a joint work. Many companies have made contact that they are dedicated to making different parts of the production process within the same production process to generate a synergy of the use of potentials. Nothing. What about our traditional productive sectors? He doesn't answer me why they're not supporting the wood sector, they're calling at the door of the joint and they're already pissed off. What about our forest sector? Why don't you bet on the forest sector? What about the milk sector and the livestock sector? You come here to talk and I think it's wonderful, I think you have to move on in many other lands; but what you can't leave is what we already have. Besides, you're not talking about anything that these research investments are related to the country's future, with a country's development plan. Looking for interior rest in our country, which is being deserted. If you take advantage of those potentials, there's nothing, absolutely nothing. They didn't use these years, these tremendous years of crisis, either, to train the workers towards that new industry that they wanted to generate, to those sectors that they wanted to support, because there was no growth plan, because it's all going to jump to the slaughter. And now we've found that most unemployed workers don't have any training. Most workers and workers in unemployment over the age of 45 are not prepared for the new productive sectors because you haven't prepared them. I used to say the other day that the feeling that Joine gives is that each one serves his tree but no one is attending the forest, so it burns! Because trees, being distinct and going offline, are useless, they don't even do furniture or do anything, because each one is of a different kind. That's their policy, disillusioned and disconnected from the country's real problems. You're talking about universities, which are being used in addition to the funding they have. But it's not enough! You try to say here something that the three universities are publicly denying, even with demonstrations, asking for budget and asking that they be allowed to investigate, that they are not allowed to investigate with the cuts that exist. I was wondering if we didn't agree. I think you should ask how you started and how you should make these decisions and these programs. We were taken individually by the People's Party, not by support or opinion, but by opposition, but by the universities themselves, by unions and by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, not by big businessmen alone. Therefore, I think it's propaganda, nothing but propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u87	And he didn't mean at all either the support given to culture within this program, because, if something is forgotten by the Union, it's the culture of our country, which has a great future if someone has supported it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u89	Thank you, President. Today at least we learn something, that arguments and papers have nothing to do with it. It's a novelty, at least we're going to get things out. At the first hour we learned a lesson in democracy – at ten in the morning – and now we learn that. Look, Counselor, just one thing: you're going to tell us you're coming here to evaluate RIS3. It will have to be evaluated with regard to some type of indicator. At least the plans were evaluated with regard to the indicators. How was innovation in Galicia and how is it? You'll have to give us data from before, from the process and beyond. Just go to the data. You know that the R+D+i budget is 15% lower than 2009. If you don't want to talk about the budget, okay, let's not talk about the budget. According to the latest official data we have from INE, innovative companies in Galicia fell from 1,930 in 2008 to 1,092 in 2012. How many do we have now?, what is the ratio?, what is the exact number of innovative companies? Don't tell me you want to boost your enterprise in an innovative way. Because, you know what the problem is? When you talk about RIS3, about Industry 4.0, about the Competitiveness Strategy, and you ask us, do you agree, for example, with the reindustrialization of Galicia?, do you agree with the active aging?, we can tell you, man!, as an objective active aging, as one of the major axes of RIS3, yes. But do you know the reality? Now there are a lot of senior residences that have reduced, for example, the quality of food; that have reduced the number of leathers they use for these older people; that have reduced the staff; that have reduced all the welfare systems of those people. If you tell them that RIS3 has an axis that is active aging, that residency staff is to laugh, without more than simply. A real example? A person who has his mother who begins to have symptoms that she can't move. The social worker of a district in Ribeiro says, "Make it clear," because you're going to have a waiting list to enter a public residence for a year or more, at best. Given that this older person earns 500 euros of pension; that his daughter is a person who works as an employee at home; and private residences are around 2,000 euros. Come on, active aging! They hear about RIS3 and they laugh at it, not at all, the laughter of despair, Counselor. Active aging is a chimera, an absolute chimera, because the situation of social services in this country is desperate; and I no longer say that of older and dependent people. There are people with a recognized PIA in 2011 who have to go to the courts to be recognized because in 2014, after several revisions, they haven't yet received anything they've been recognized in 2011. Not to mention all the people who are in the limbo of the dependency. That's what I'm telling you because it's a subject that I think it's best we don't talk about in RIS3's appearances about people out there, suffering from a real dependency situation, a real aging situation. Do we agree to reindustrialize Galicia? But tell us how, in which sectors, priorities, how they will, in what time, the situation was. Of course! It's just to come here and say you're already talking about energy because you're talking about biomass! How does RIS3 forget wind and photovoltaic? What a forgetfulness! Is biomass really the future of renewable energy for you? Let's see if it's really renewable to have energy crops. We can question that, because biomass at RIS3 is not conceived as a residual biomass; no, no, it is conceived as an energy crop, which already gives a lot to talk about if this is really renewable. What about photovoltaics? What do you think of the actual decree of what the draft is there? Did the Galician Union express its disagreement? Do you agree? Do you really think it's important to impose a new tax, a sun tax, or not? The wind, what a forgetfulness! Today you have nothing to say about the wind sector, you have nothing to say about the judgment. You think the government of Feijóo has done everything well in the last six years and a few months; that really the paralysis of the wind sector and that we have lost positions in the wind sector has nothing to do with Feijóo. By the way, in an area where innovation is more than clear. I'm just telling him he's a suspect to talk about aeronautical...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u91	...and don't talk about the wind in the research. It's suspicious that he talks about biomass and he doesn't talk about other renewable energies with an area of research at this moment deeper. What I really want is for the next time he comes to evaluate us, tell us what indicators we're going to be able to evaluate. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u93	As it has been revealed that he will not speak today about the judgment of the windman, so much so! Tomorrow I hope in my question we do. And that the sentence is also read before the question. Mr Arias said that there was no triumphalist speech at all, but he was talking about that we are already coming out of the crisis and that we are an example at European level of how to get out of the crisis. Allow me to doubt that this which we see in society in general, which I see and that you see, is to escape the crisis; to me it is not. It would be questionable. There are indicators that can tell, if GDP rises and these things. As long as it doesn't move on to people's lives, it's not for me to get out of the crisis. Now, what is indisputable to me, because here all the acquaintances of the R+D+i knowledge system coincide, is that the way of the People's Party to try to get out of the crisis was the way of knowledge. It wasn't! The way of the People's Party to get out of the crisis was the devaluation of wages, working conditions, etc.; but not the path of knowledge. And I read what one of the directors of the Greek universities said recently, when they talked about funding, "The R & D & I cuts today will pay for the next few decades. For some time now no one has questioned, in public or in private, that we are going to the knowledge society, that knowledge is very important, but the coherence of taking the next step is lacking, to shape in budgets the support for those policies that everyone says they share. In practice, we see that it is the opposite, that research courses in higher education are reduced. France and Germany invest more because they believe the future is there." That's not what we're saying, says a principal at a university. Clearly, all good intentions have to be reflected in budgets. And we, when we talk about papers, we're talking about some measurable, quantifiable indicators, which are in the very strategy that was presented to us here at RIS3. So what we should have shown here – so we ask for a report – is whether this last year's spending on R & D+i has increased in Galicia, both public and private, or public or private. Is it worth more? That's one of the indicators in the strategy. Are there more staff researchers this past year working in Galicia or less? That's what we'll have to know. Origin values, values then by year balance; because if not, I don't understand what balance is, if it's not comparative with an initial situation or with the desired targets. And that was not given to us, we were not given that comparative balance. It's as easy as that. They're quantifiable expenditure, personnel, patents... you gave here data from the National Institute of Statistics. So we have to look at different pages, because since 2009 innovative companies in Galicia have almost halved; and from 2012 to 2013 they have been reduced. And also from 2012 to 2013 at the INE, Galicia's spending was reduced to R+D+i. You said here that you had increased by 1.5%, where did you consult? From 2012 to 2013 Galicia has re-downloaded R & D spending, which is the latest official data available. So where do you get the data? Of course, the People's Party did not opt for the path of knowledge to escape the crisis, and the data are there to report it. Moreover, I say this strategy is imposed because since 2009, you have been reducing investments in universities, technology centers, cutting personnel in research centers, etc.; they have been cutting and there are specific cases.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u94	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u95	And by doing all the opposite of what the European RIS3 strategy says; that is to say, making a cut, making a flat table, not prioritising some sectors or others. For example, I have many times told the Rural Media Advisor that from 2012 to 2013 they have reduced 36% of investigators in Mabegondo's ICAM, who do research in those primary sectors that you say you want to enhance. Well, because of this reduction of investigator staff, European funds have been lost, and so Galicia is going to hit the record of leaving without running European funds for cutting what is called the chocolate of the oyster in researchers. It's not even a rational and austere decision. And the Rural Development Program too, sent in September 2014, when there was already RIS3. One of the 414 comments from the European Commission is that the proposed advisory system is based only on normative knowledge and bureaucracy, not on innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u97	So if this is a government project, it demonstrates coherence in all sectors. What they're showing up to now – and you haven't denied it with data here – is that since they've been running, they've reduced their efforts in research, development and innovation. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u98	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Group. Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that to me the speeches of the Economic and Industrial Adviser, and of the People's Party's Industry Voicer – I have said so many times – always lie within the limit of scientific knowledge. I recognize my intellectual perversion, Mr. Arias. To prepare an intervention I read books and consult data. I insist, I therefore blame myself as solemnly as I can for making this sort of sacrilege of reading books, in addition to writing very wide books, of more than a thousand pages, because the rest, the rest, is rhetorical; the rest is rhetorical, when not falsehood. Counsellor, last year, indeed, in 2015 the program increased by 56, but not by 30%, by 7.89%. I know I'm taking time, but I'm going to give you exactly the data: in 2014 it was €113,250,500, and in 2015, €122,185.080, 7.89%. If you have another data, I insist, intervention, because what you send us here, to Parliament, is exactly this. And you forget to say that, with a 75% execution, in 2008, the last year that managed that hideous government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, there was 20% more staffing and 15% more execution, almost nothing! Like to bet on research, innovation and development. Look, tell you what to do to boost the pemmes. Home!, among other things, execute the Igape funds, taking into account the context of funding difficulties. I don't know if methodologically it's 25% or 35%, but in any case it's an absolutely scandalous execution. You also say that the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization includes a number of values. Look, look at what you look at, there are three or four fundamental variables in any analysis of any production process, and they're, on the one hand, funding, on the other, innovation and on the other hand demand. And domestic demand, Counselor, in this country is a fundamental economic variable, as much as they want to internationalize, which seems good to me. I think it's good to internationalize, I think it's nice to bet on the aeronautics sector, I think everything you say is fine. I just want to see how it was before the trial and how it is now, because that's evaluating, the rest... you know it's the rest, Counselor? Look, the rest are exactly the 13 press releases that the government has generated on the RIS3 since they first talked about it. It's 13 press notes, you can consult it if you doubt the number; at least I've lost some between reading one book and another. It's 13 press releases generated by RIS3. And then you say I focus on Ukraine and Turkey. I don't focus, they get the data. How can you say here that you want to look at Germany and Finland, with 0.86 % R & D+i spending? But you think we're idiots? I can look at Antarctica too, but I'm not in Antarctica. I insist, Galician data are exactly the same as those of Ukraine and Turkey. I'm not setting any focus, I'm reading OECD data. That's right, in a book, it must be one of the few that got rid of Mr. Arias's Fahrenheit 451. Of course, then, I insist: data. Of course I'd like to focus on Finland and Germany, but Finland and Germany have between 2.5 % and 3% of R & D+i effort. So if you think you're able to do it with 0.86% what the Finns do with 3%, so look, it's fine. Hansel and Gretel exist, and the chocolate cottage too. But, man, we should have a minimum intellectual seriousness with or without books. The proof that it is so, Counselor, is that the director of the Moncloa Economic Office, Alvaro Nadal, brother of the most illustrious... and responsible for the government's energy policy, said textually that there is a lot of control of the R & D+i because it is not profitable in the short term. Of course it's not profitable in the short term! And of course, for private participation in a second phase, it requires sustained public participation over time; the more intense, the better. And you know it's perfectly so in all the cases studied and in all the cases evaluated. If you and Mr Arias have an alternative way of innovation that has been successfully experienced in countries of far east, in countries of central and northern Europe, I can tell you. The truth is that wages are lower, we are competitive in products of less and less value added. And of course, there are companies that innovate, of course, there are! in Galicia, but the theoretical concept of this issue is what is called – even in the European Union, I don't know whether liberals or socialists – under innovative performance, which means that they are indeed economies that use border technologies, but they are unable to create and disseminate new knowledge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u101	I don't want to import technology, I want to believe it, which is what they do in Finland and Germany, and what they don't do in Turks or Ukrainians even if they have high-tech companies. And, Counselor, I don't know if you've seen the CEO today, if you haven't seen him in the other layouts, see one of the Galician Innovation Agency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u102	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u103	...–Finished, Madam President–, a resolution of May 29, 2015 of a call on January 24, 2014. That's called dynamism and accompaniment to the productive tissue of this autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u104	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Arias Veira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u105	Madam President. Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Losada, we can discuss any kind of method issue. You can use a perverse method, it can be counterculture, but what we must not allow is that we renounce Cicero, Mr. Losada. How we're gonna get rid of rhetoric! You have now made an assessment of rhetoric, which is the fundamental weapon of parliamentarians. You, a historian, scorning Cicero, Mr. Losada, are unforgivable! Let me tell you that Cicero left the ethos, which you are always using as permanent outrage, suffering from circumstances and enemies. [[Murmurs.]] That pathos, with that kind of incitement to indignation, exciting, undoubtedly. That invention that remains marked, cecal, because it considers that we know less than you know systematically, with a peroratio, you see it, that these gentlemen bring us ruin. We can't forget that when we were told so many things. Another thing I want to claim is that you make good use of the data, because you said something that is false, false. Yes, he said that the economic system, the economic model process, was supported by external demand. It's fake. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You read the last statistical bulletin from the Banco de España, where the data is 3.6 of domestic demand, minus 0.6 of external demand, because there's... sorry, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How there's a recovery process... sorry. You should know a little more about the economic cycle, and if not, you should study it. Yes, yes, you give us a lot of lessons from the method, but it seems very bad to you... you need the help of people who are excited, confused, when you're arguing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the fundamental data is conclusive; the fundamental data is conclusive. Lately the process of economic growth in Spain has the fundamental support of domestic demand. Check it out, check it out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said here that you were on the outside demand. That's an unforgivable mistake. Other gentlemen who somehow teach us lessons said that our economic model was based on wage devaluation, that we are – in other conventional terms – more exploiters. That's what we were called. I tell you, improve your technique and refine your analysis, because – obviously – there's discomfort. And there is trouble because these Socialist Party gentlemen, and others, left us a situation and left him a healthy state, let him have public debt under the levels demanded by the EU, we control capital movements, we equal the savings and investment procedures without need of indebtedness. Unbelievable! Unbelievable! The Spanish miracle until 2004. 2004-2011: breakdown, crisis, indebtedness and all unemployment. And yet, because the effects – they should know – of all the enormous waste that were those years, those years of irresponsibility and wastefulness. He's always saying, we spend more than you do. Of course, because they were indebted to us for twice what they were spending, and now we have to pay that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u106	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u107	That's the fundamental cause. So, we have arrived, we have to make a very difficult adjustment in the process of indebtedness, in the construction process, maintaining the national market, avoiding the rupture of the country, even by paying attention and sobriety in sectoral projects like this... and now they tell us that we are rhetorical! Well, he couldn't tell me better! Thank you very much for calling us rhetorical. Because, Cicero... what can we do if we forget the classics? We must always go back to the classics, because in the time of the tribulation, Tucídides, all the great ones must inspire us because they have the vision of time. We'll always be nothing, at least have a good picture of ourselves. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arias. The Economic and Industry Councillor has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to appear in this House precisely to inform you of the first results of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization, which we understand is the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization of Galicia. I repeat in my speech that it was a strategy validated by the European Commission itself. That, indeed, it aims to change our production model. That, in fact, allows us to use resources intelligently. That, indeed – and I regret that they do not yet recognize it – was a consensual, elaborate strategy from Galicia's R & D+i economic agents to the Government. And this government all it did was collect, order, and now it's also prioritising all the initiatives that since the R+D+i agents have moved. And we will continue to do so, because we will indeed continue to evaluate this strategy. Logically – I said it in my first intervention – today we don't make a balance because we still don't have the data to make that comparison. You know the latest published data is from 2013. Indeed, the application of this strategy is based on all the actions launched by this Government since the approval of RIS3, i.e. the beginning of 2014. So I think there's a certain rigor to be maintained, although logically we have to evaluate the data, as I also did in my first intervention. You know that this administration, companies and technology centers are actually working to innovate more and more. And logically there are direct beneficiaries, who are the companies themselves, who are the centres of knowledge themselves, who are actually enabling them to have opportunities to be more competitive and, therefore, to improve their employment ratios and their internationalization. But the beneficiaries, ladies and gentlemen – I greatly regret, especially, the intervention of the Galician Nationalist Block, but also that of Mrs Martínez – the beneficiaries of RIS3, ladies and gentlemen, we are all, and they are also citizens. And logically, when we're innovating in health, ladies and gentlemen, we're improving our quality of life and the quality of our citizens. When we're really innovating, we're giving our productive fabric opportunities, so job opportunities and growth opportunities. Logically, RIS3 needs to be evaluated within the framework of innovation policy to give our workers more opportunities, to give our citizens more opportunities and to improve our quality of life. And, of course, coming here makes me demagogy, I think, frankly, it deserves another kind of respect. In any case, we'll continue to work, Mrs. Martínez, and we'll talk from realism. This government, of course, is trying to put forward all its proposals from realism. And the reality is that we are going through a very intense economic crisis in its duration and very hard, indeed, because it has a direct impact on citizens. And that's why, logically, we're planning, and we're developing strategies to clearly mark a path of recovery and give you those opportunities. Logically, in that innovation strategy, the priority is for small and medium-sized companies, because they are most of our productive tissue. And logically – I said – 94% of all aids have small and medium-sized companies as recipients. And we have to work with them because there's a problem of absorption capacity that can actually have by its size. We're working in that direction, I think in a very positive sense, and small and medium-sized companies are proving they know how to collaborate; they know how to collaborate with the technology centers, they know how to collaborate with other companies, and that's why I've already told you that we'll continue this year 2015 by making a new call from the Connecta Peme Program. I'm sorry that I haven't read the call for aid orders in the iodine of geothermals published in the Official Journal of Galicia, with direct support for geothermals. Therefore, geothermal companies will indeed have the opportunity to develop new projects. And I regret, logically, that I don't value the support effort this government is making in terms of innovation towards university support. It is EUR 40 million, ladies and gentlemen; EUR 40 million that have received universities in recent years, in particular in the Conecta Peme and Interconnecta programme. But nearly 16 million euros in direct subcontracting to universities, innovative public purchase 22 million euros and mixed units over 2 million euros. They are additional funds and therefore a clear bet because this government believes in universities, believes in researchers and believes in the potential that our research talent has within universities to add to innovation and to transfer a greater transfer of knowledge. The Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam... I haven't really come to evaluate RIS3 since the first moment. If you want to reverse my interventions... I've seen how manifest the performances that have been put into effect by this government since 2014. So when we have to compare, we'll obviously make these comparisons. Logically, we will use the different indicators that are collected in our own RIS3, we will evaluate the results and, logically, we will make available to our productive fabric and our knowledge centers the different measures that will improve these different actions. And I insist, don't worry, we will speak in this House – as it cannot be otherwise – of all those aspects which it considers appropriate to oppose. And logically also to the representative of AGE, of course we're going to talk about the wind competition, of course we're going to talk about the draft of the decree of self-consumption that the Government put in, but today the appearance, if allowed, is of innovation. Indeed, when we talked about the number of researchers, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia was able to close the year 2013 with a number of researchers very similar to the year 2007, that is, before the start of the crisis; 5,397 in the year 2007, 5,413 in the year 2013. In relation to 2012, by giving concrete data, Galicia managed in 2013 to limit to 0.8 % the decrease in the total number of researchers, while at the state level, ladies and gentlemen, that fall was almost 3%. So we're clearly making an effort from the Public Service to keep the bet on researchers, but I think we also need to value the effort our companies are making. Because only, ladies and gentlemen, 88 of those who innovate in the period 2006-2008, could not keep up with this activity between 2011 and 2013, i.e. 4%. Of course, it's a fact that you can see negative, but in that same data the descent in Spain was 9%. So we're showing that we're having a very clear resistance, from the private sector's point of view and from our companies' side, supporting innovation. By the way, you who care so much about Andalusia, that fall of innovative companies was 29%. I don't know if AGE's innovation policy is the policy that defends itself in Andalusia, but that's the specific fact. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, there's a logical concern about the execution of the Economic and Industry Council, shared by the agencies. You know that I was referring to chapter VII of the Galician Innovation Agency -- right -- when you want to make a homogeneous comparison of the data from the Bipartite and current data, we will do so, and you know perfectly well that the execution of the Igape is largely, indeed, dependent on the company's own decisions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you have no doubt that this government, first of all, will continue to make a bet on innovation, where 1 out of every 3 euros in the Council is dedicated to innovation. And, secondly, logically Igape will continue to focus on aid to productive tissue, especially through the Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda. Not only in concrete measures to eliminate all bureaucratic obstacles that entrepreneurs have, but also in concrete measures of activation and investment support through the renovation of equipment, the improvement of production processes and the development of investment plans towards Industry 4.0, the Intelligent Factory, because, Your Honor – you know very well – there is the future, and of course this government will be committed to that future. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the data I've tried to transfer to this House today, I think we've been promoting a very important effort since the government. I believe it is the first autonomous community that actually makes a presentation of that effort to implement and implement the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization without waiting for the implementation of the new European Funds 2014-2020. We have promoted a total investment with specific projects: 626 projects, 626 realities, 220 million euros only in one year; from a public budget found at 113 million euros. An investment that was 60% to improve the competitiveness of our industrial fabric, therefore, with a clear objective of diversifying our Welsh industry, marking priorities in different sectors, in the strategic sectors of our economy: in the naval sector, in the textile sector, in the automotive sector, and logically prioritizing new sectors such as the aeronautical sector, biotechnology and, logically, also the energy sector, particularly in the field of biomass. Logically, small and medium-sized enterprises are the main focus of this board. 94% of all aids were allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we understand from the Government that they are a very clear reflection of the new area in which we must move in an accelerated manner; a habit to innovate, a habit to collaborate between companies and knowledge centres; ultimately, the path that should enable us to consolidate economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u110	Thank you very much, Counselor. Before suspending the sitting, I shall inform your lordships of the withdrawal of the Non-Legal Proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia register number 36898, which is included in the agenda as item 5.2. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u111	Good afternoon again. We resume the session with the meeting of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order. Comparability of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to report on new developments in the regulation of ESO and Bachelorate curricula in development of LOMCE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u112	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u113	Good afternoon, Madam President and ladies. Galicia has a perfectly defined educational model that started in a transformation with respect to the one that existed in 2009. This process has advanced in areas as relevant as language betting, the real integration of ICTs into learning processes and professional training closer to Galicia's socio-productive reality. All this combined with the adoption of measures and transversal axes aimed at promoting educational innovation, strengthening the autonomy of the centre, promoting the culture of student effort, defending attention to diversity and also promoting coexistence and equity. In the exercise of its own competences, the German Government has introduced structural and model changes, and has always done so with respect to effective organic legislation and loyalty to the state and the rest of the communities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the laws are to be fulfilled, regardless of ideological issues or partisan views. Today, the basic regulations of thanks are organic law 8/2013, of December 9, commonly known as LOMCE. This is a law that is fruit of the normative technique of modifying the organic law of education, the LOE, maintaining the useful and changing what involved solving problems detected in the educational system, such as dropout or low results compared to other territories. As is known, the LOMCE itself has established an application calendar. In this course 2014-2015 the new legislation was implemented in the first, third and fifth primary education courses, also by conducting a diagnostic evaluation in the third primary course, while also facing the development of the first basic vocational training course. In this course that just finished the education centers in Galicia worked normally, they worked very normally. Under state and autonomous legislation, the new methodology and the new organization was introduced, both in primary and in basic vocational training. This was possible because he chose to develop a new primary curriculum, he was affixed by the reinforcement of basic skills, especially the empowerment of knowledge and skills in Mathematics, and offered basic vocational training with an offer of appropriate titles and according to Galicia's needs. I always say that time gives and takes away reasons. For time has shown that improvisation criticism and wishful thinking of chaos did not respond to reality. They were nothing more than political desires on the part of the forces that opposed the development of a new education law. There was transparency in the current course regarding the development and developments of LOMCE in Galicia, there were appearances in this Parliament and information was also given to the centres through transitional orders and prior to the final adoption of decrees. The reality was that the Official Journal of Galicia published in September, and before the beginning of the classes, the Greek decrees of both primary and basic vocational training, enabling throughout the course ordinary work in educational centers. But the work and responsibility of the Educational Administration did not end at that time, much less. The LOMCE calendar is still in force and requires progress in adapting basic regulations to Galicia. In the next course 2015-2016 will continue the implementation for the second, fourth and sixth primary, while it is necessary to count on the new curricula in the first and third of ESO, and in the first of Bachelorship. And in the same way, the next course will also be followed by the implementation of basic vocational training with the second course. On January 3, 2015, the Royal Decree establishing the basic curriculum of compulsory secondary education, ESO, and more bachelor's degree, was issued. The Galician Union has an obligation to develop it and adapt it to Galicia. And as it is known, in March of this year, the Council presented and began the process of processing the preliminary draft of the decree for ESO and Bac curricula. The new regulation consists, on the one hand, of a single text for both stages, ESO and bac; in a new organization by blocks of matter, following organic law, specific and free configuration materials; and also a consistent regulation by which it is applied in the primary curriculum and with a logical relation to basic vocational training. Even so, the draft decree reinforces learning by competences; learning by online competences with the latest educational innovations, that is, we are facing a methodological change not so much of content but rather a methodological change. It also strengthens mathematics; it empowers the autonomy of the centers, allowing them to conform free-setting materials with greater freedom, depending on the reinforcement and reinforcement needs of the student; and it opens new options so that the student can build his own training curriculum. In addition, the linguistic balance was maintained at both stages, it was made by decree 13 hours for the Galician Language and Literature Galician in ESO and six in the Bachelor's degree, always on equal terms with the Spanish Language and with the Literature, and, of course, with a clear bet for plurilingualism. As regards the processing of this decree, the participation of the educational community was sought and the following steps were taken: First, there was a public exhibition of curricula, and the educational community was able to carry out different approaches, some of them, by the way, incorporated. Three hundred and six claims, both individually and collectively, of which eighty-four have been accepted and incorporated into the text, are received in this way; we are talking about one third of the totals. Secondly, the text of the draft decree also exceeded the relevant procedures in the participation and consultation bodies. And at this point, I would like to stop because I wanted to address two different questions. On the one hand, in the sectoral table, the unions chose to express their discrepancies and make constructive approaches, which allowed them to approach positions, for example, by increasing the number of hours in the field of Philosophy. On the other hand, in the School Council the attitude of the same organizations has hindered any constructive debate of this consultative body, which I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, is perceptual but not binding. And I wanted to underline in this sense that of the one hundred and sixty-seven amendments presented. And despite the lack of will and dialogue and the obstructionist strategy, since it was voted in favour of the amendment to the whole, it must be clarified that many of the amendments submitted were, or were, better said, a violation of legality, and in any event, however, the Council analysed them all and could incorporate them, although they were not discussed or defended in this body, in the text seven amendments and recommendations. Circumstance that demonstrates the will of the Educational Administration for incorporating those constructive and improved approaches. Finally, the report of the Advisory Council was also favourable. Three allegations of legality and thirty styles were raised; all of them assumed and incorporated as improvements to the text. And I would also like to highlight the important work that the Council staff have done, which I would like to thank publicly. And there's a record of the will in this case to incorporate you closer to the initial text with the data I've just given. This whole process, which took place between the end of March and the middle of this month, allows the autonomous decree that regulates the curricula of ESO and Bacharelate to be submitted to the approval of the Board of Trustees this very Thursday, June 25. I repeat: the autonomous decree that regulates the curricula of ESO and bac will be subject to the approval of the board of assembly this very Thursday, June 25, so that the registration to be developed between June 25 and July 10 can be developed with total normality. The main features of the new decree are, on the one hand, a fixed structure based on the types of subjects. On the one hand, we have tranq subjects, which ensure that the student in Wales has a proper common level with regard to his colleagues and other autonomous communities, both in the acquisition of key competences and in his personal development; specific subjects, which give the margin of combination so that the compulsory and the optionals draw the route more in line with the needs and demands of the student; and also free self-configuration materials, where we promote a catalogue of varied, innovative and agree with what is proper for Galicia. For what? To continue to delve into the individualized itinerary of the student and the autonomy of the centers. The new decree is consistent, it continues to bet just as in the case of primary because of the reinforcement of mathematics in ESO, it continues to bet on linguistic balance. And for both ESO and Bachelor's degree there's stability in the main subjects, but there's also an offer of subjects with choice margin for students and centers to adjust the education system to more individual itineraries. As a result of the process of participation, the new decree will first have a picture of the time distribution of ESO and of baccalaureate. The main contribution is that first of all, the subject of Philosophy is going from two hours a week to three, along with a series of other technical aspects that I will not stop presenting and which I suppose will be known to you. Secondly, regarding the block of specific materials, it must be said that for the fourth course of ESO, for the first of bachelor's degree and for the second of baccalaureate the article of the future decree referring to materials of the block of specific materials that can choose the student is written in the following way: a matter of the block of trunk matter not studied by the student or student will be considered specific for all purposes. Therefore, this broadens the student's choice capacity, since there is the possibility of choosing new trunk materials as specific choice materials, without being restricted to the eligibility of the trunk materials of the option itself. Undoubtedly, the main novelty comes in the third block: matter of free autonomic figuring. The matter of free autonomic configuration, with margin for centres to present on the basis of their own autonomy, will be the subject of a specific development through a standard in which the characteristics and curricula on these subjects will be established. The free configuration materials provided for the ESO stage are as follows: Landscape and Sustainability in Galicia – for the first and second –, Promotion of Healthy Lifestyles, Oratory, Chess, Programming, Research and Information Treatment, Financial Education. That is, a series of subjects that will have an hourly allocation of a weekly school period and which can be offered by the centres in the first of ESO or in the second, and which can be selected by the student in one of the two courses; they do not have the condition of progressive subjects in this sense. As you can see, in this initial presentation, we have entered into proposals made in this Parliament, through single agreements, such as the introduction in the teaching of oratory and also chess. In Bachelorship, in the first course it is introduced as free configuration options Anthropology, Hispanic and Robotic Literature, and for the second course the following are incorporated: Geography and History of Galicia, Galician Literature of the 20th Century and of the News, Artistic and Cultural Heritage Galego, Ethics and Philosophy of the Right, Philosophy of Science and Technology, and Statistical and Numeral Methods. In this case, materials have an hourly allocation of two teaching periods per week. Revoked to these are also the subjects of free teaching configuration. And just as the draft decree collects, so it is established, as we are seeing, the ESO and Bachelor's Curriculum, that educational centers can establish free configuration materials according to their educational project, then, obviously, of the corresponding authorization of the Council. We are therefore faced with a coherent position with regard to our defence and our reinforcement of the autonomy of educational institutions. In short, we offer a catalogue that includes subjects that are unique to our territory, such as Landscapes and Sustainability in Galicia, Artistic and Cultural Heritage Galego, for example, along with others that fit the interests of society, increasingly focused on science and technology, programming, robotics, the philosophy of science and technology, and others of a more social and economic nature, such as promoting healthy lifestyles, research and the treatment of information, financial education or anthropology. And of course, we're also working to incorporate other subjects into the future, such as one related to promoting equality between men and women. I insist on the essence of the decree: reinforcement of mathematics, stability in the number of materials, greater catalog within that numerical stability of materials to be chosen, so that the student and the center can also adjust their curriculum to the needs of reinforcement and learning. And in time, the hourly load in the trunk matter is increased, around 60% in ESO and 62.5 % in baccalaureate; in both cases above 50% marked by the Ministry. Also, as in the case of primary, the hourly load is maintained in artistic subjects; Music and Plastic Education are kept as mandatory in the first cycle. And it also keeps the time devoted to puppetry throughout the ESO stage. Of course, there's also a stake for multilingualism. At the same time, it must also be said that the Council maintains the balance between German and Spanish; the distribution of teaching hours must have parity between the two official languages in the same way as up to now. In this case the new decree will provide the presence of the Galician in our educational system on equal terms as the Spanish Language and Literature. And finally – as you know – in the next course the news in vocational training related to the application of LOMCE have to do with the extension of the second course of basic vocational training. In this case the Official Journal of Galicia has published last Tuesday the vocational training cycles that are made available to the student for the 2015-2016 course. Obviously, this offer is defined each year depending on the demand and needs of each region, of each area. And this would offer for the 2015-2016 course a total of 28,450 first courses, i.e. a total of 1,144 groups in different types: medium and higher grade in ordinary regimen, adult people, distance regimen, basic vocational training and also dual vocational training. All over Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we have over 53,000 pupils and students who have studied in this course's FP teachings, and we understand that it is the responsibility of this government and this council to continue to bet on vocational training. Finally, it is established that progress should be made in the capacity to manage the system and advance in the educational quality of Galicia, it must also comply with the basic rules, develop the state standards within the assigned autonomous competences and, of course, work daily to improve the quality of the Greek education system. The new education legislation and its development adapted to the reality of Greece mark a new opportunity to move forward in the improvement of the system, and among all of us we can do things much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u114	Thank you. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u115	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, President. Within the centralized structure of the Spanish educational system, the struggle for political and ideological power is accompanied by control, control of education. So this draft demonstrates it, with curricula designed for the market, not to form critical citizens and solidarity. Besides that you say it's a series that contains a lot of our nation, but the place in the curricular designs of study, knowledge, culture, heritage, etc., does not respond to that claim of yours. And on the other hand, Greek is not on equal terms as Spanish, although it has the same timetable as a teaching of a particular language, because it is not a vehicle language in Greek teaching. All the subjects, most of them are in Spanish. On the other hand, I wonder, about the cuts that are taking place in public education, like you're going to fund Oratory, Chess, Dance, etc., etc. What I do not share at all is to include the subject of Religion, and also with an evaluable category. I suppose when you talk about Religion, you're talking about Catholic religion, because there's a lot of them. There are the worshipers of the fire too; I know a person who married for that rite. They could also give the one of the fire worshippers in public education. There are so many! The Vatican hierarchy must be very happy to be able to introduce its sequels into the classroom, under the exclusive control of ecclesiastical powers and religious, Catholic, apostolic and Roman authorities. Laicism, ladies and gentlemen, far from constituting a particular ideology opposed to others, appears historically as one of the basic principles of all democracy, linked to the recognition of freedom of thought, the equality of citizens in rights and duties, and therefore non-discrimination on the basis of their ideas. Its content – the content of secularism – is based on the full development of freedom of conscience, is one of the cornerstones of human rights, and implies effective separation between the State, which represents the whole citizenship, and confessions, which represent certain particular groups. And allow me to thank and congratulate the mayors of Santiago, Ferrol and Coruña for their position and behavior on this subject as representatives of a public institution, not to go to the Offer of the Old Kingdom of Galicia to the Most Holy – I don't know that – Sacrament; I don't know that sacrament. Thank you very much, mayors; I feel very represented. The school is a public institution where the principle of laicity, neutrality must be observed very scrupulously, because it functions as the satisfaction of a universal right, which is that of education, which reaches the whole of the citizens, without exception. This is how various international declarations and covenants are made, and also our legislation on matter. Basic goals of education pursue the free and full development of human personality, as well as the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. That is not possible if public school is not based on the free formation of consciousness and the promotion of critical and scientific attitudes. These objectives are completely unattainable as public authorities continue to be subject to the dictates of agreements with the Holy See and an obsolete organic law of religious freedom. Both violate the most basic democratic principles. According to its own aims, the school must be educated in dogmas, in scientific and universal knowledge, in humanistic and civic values, in respect of human rights, in the assumption of difference and diversity, on the basis of equality in dignity and rights, in the ethical and democratic principles that are common. Schools should not at any time be a place of exclusion and discrimination. Children and children must not be separated according to the beliefs or convictions of their families. As a result, religion must, already leave the classroom, Mr. P.P. Get out of the public schools religion! It must therefore be out in order to respect the rights of the entire educational community, and so that the normal functioning of the organisation of educational institutions is not interrupted. The maintenance of situations contrary to an increasingly secularized and conscious society of its democratic rights is compounded today by a policy directed, and greater satisfaction, to the clerical sectors, which are committed to preserving and further increasing their privileges – of the Catholic Church – including their ancestral interference with public institutions, which aim to continue to use as an open space for proselytism and indoctrination. A democratic society – I repeat – should not allow for a return to the past of a Catholic confessional state and therefore the survival of a teaching subject to religious dogmatism. Public authorities have no legitimacy at all to allow the implementation of one or other religious or ideological options, for their personal character, in the common and institutional space of public school, and less to continue to be perpetuated in agreements made with the Vatican state that nullify fundamental rights. Even more serious when it comes to people of short age, who don't have enough academic or intellectual preparation to take this fact with a critical attitude. So, please, religion, all religions out of class. And don't you argue – that we are also tired of listening – that is part of culture. It is also part of the culture of Inquisition, also part of the culture of the Crusades. All this is given in history books; the religious fact and wars, which bring with it the religions, all that is in the textbooks. What do you intend to teach in public schools?, catechism?, Catholic morality? And you don't argue with me that you go whoever you want, because what I'm trying to do is you don't want children who don't want Catholic religion to break up in class. What do you do with these kids? These aren't Catholics. You don't have to know nobody's religion, it's part of the private domain. And we're talking about a public institution. Religion in schools, not in temples; in temples, whatever they want. No one is against religions, but against religion in public school. I hope they'll fix this mistake once again, because it's important, it's very, very, very important for many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u116	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u117	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good afternoon. Indeed, the only novelty that the BNG Parliamentary Group could expect from the development of LOMCE, the only novelty that the Block could wait for the appearance of the Mr. Education Counsellor would be the paralyzing of LOMCE itself, to end the obsception of the Greek Government by continuing with the failed educational policies of the failed Minister Wert, which the Counsellor calls "complying with the basic regulations"; to end the education policy in the service of PP ideology, dictated by Minister Wert and assumed by the Greek Government without even requisitioning. After listening to you, Counselor, I've already seen that Galicia's educational submission continues. Although the vast majority of the education community in Galicia is demanding the Council, first of all, responsibility and coherence, and in respect of an action that prioritizes the quality of Greek education. Despite the fact that they're claiming that the councillor assumes responsibilities and defends what's best for Galicians and Greeks, that at this moment it's nothing but, of course, delaying LOMCE. Counsellor, we have the completed course for the student, we have finished it and the educational community is reporting that no definitive information on the new course 2015-2016 is available. The educational community is complaining, ladies and gentlemen, that the centres do not have that absolutely necessary information, which is causing serious problems of operation in secondary schools. How can it be allowed that at the beginning of the high school enrolment there is no knowledge of the curriculum of the stage, the subjects to be given, or the time load of these materials? How can it be imposed desatin size that will affect ESO's odd courses, the first of bac? Destiny which is the most evident proof that, indeed, LOMCE has only one path, which is its paralysis, its postponement. We haven't seen anything today, except for Galicia's educational submission; submission that represents a fearful attitude and contempt for the teacher, for the student and for the family. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG once again calls from this rostrum to paralyze the application of LOMCE for the sake of the quality of education in Galicia. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG once again claims from the Minister of Education of Galicia that he listens to the Greek professor, who listens to the ANPAs, the teaching unions, the German student, the Welsh educational community; that he hears, Mr. Counsellor, the School Council of Galicia. This body of representation of the school community, which, in fact, during the processing and negotiation of the secondary curriculum, demanded the withdrawal of the ESO Curriculum and Bac because it would seriously harm the schools and students, and not only because it is a late publication; secondly, it also called for the paralysis of the application of LOMCE, stating that it would cause serious prejudice to the Greek public education. The centres, Counsellor, despite the autonomy you pray for, cannot advise the student and the families because they lack all information about the subjects to be given, their schedules and curricula. We're repeating the disillusionment, the inoperation, the lack of respect for the educational community that we've already lived at the beginning of the course we've finished with the LOMCE launch and the publication of the curricula on the eve of the start of the school course. The centres do not have the necessary information for the proper organization of the centres on the background of books, solidarity aids, the allocation of subjects to different specialities. How do I define ESO's first and third school material or bac's first material? The curriculum is not yet published. How to develop the centre language projects? How to carry out validations in access to the bachelor's degree? The educational community claims information, but the Council remains deaf to this claim. The ESO curriculum decree must be withdrawn, Counsellor; LOMCE understands the Parliamentary Group of the BNG which must be paralysed. We're talking about a decree that first conceives education as a simple commodity, as a continuous competition that will be overcome only by a small part of the student, the others will be hands of cheap precarious and submissive labor. We are before a decree that absolutely despises our country; as much as you say, our history disappears. The Swedish Kingdom, the Middle Ages, the Kingdom of Galicia, the German Revolt, the Welsh emigration, the Greek nationalism have no place in the curriculum. They do not appear in Philosophy personalities like Priscilla, the father Fexoo, Castile, etc. He refuses to conform to curricula that do not despise our own, our history, our culture, our thoughts, our art and our language; language as the vehicle language of education. He's interested in in indoctrination and keeps religion. It reviews the franchisors of secondary school and bachelor's degree, recentralizing and anti-pedagogics, which despise the continuous evaluation and the opinion of the teaching teams. It aims to exclude the most disadvantaged sectors of society from access to higher education. They aim to segregate the student with roaming from third in the ESO. Not even bet on the Portuguese language, as was approved at ILP Paz Andrade, to take advantage of the Lusophony. It does not lay down specific measures for attention to diversity. It does not provide solutions for the quality of public education in rural areas. Equal opportunities in these areas, where are you, Counsellor? The Lugous Mountain and the Ourense Mountain are in the newspapers claiming equal opportunities. Luíntra, Amoeiro and Vilardévos ask for a quality and a proper teaching. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, argues that the only possible novelty for the education system would be the withdrawal of the decree, the postponement of the application of LOMCE and the defence of the right to a free and quality compulsory education according to the law; the withdrawal of the ESO Curriculum Order process to defend the quality, to defend the respect of our teachers, students and families. At this time, the centers do not know what materials to offer to the student who will be enrolled in the next few days, what will be the time of the subjects, which teachers can impart, what is the curriculum of those subjects and, according to him, what is the teaching material they will need. Secondly, we ask for the postponement of the LOMCE application, because before we finish the next course, we all know that that law will be repealed, the May 24 elections made it clear. Because, moreover, it is claimed by most of the educational community, which is already full of rushes, improvisations, budget cuts, cuts of staff and continuing taxes that damage the quality and prestige of the public education in Galicia. And thirdly, we demand, Counsellor, that you defend the right to free and quality compulsory education, as marked by the Greek educational legislation, as called for by the vast majority of the educational community, the Confederation of ANPA galegas, that you are being asked to take advantage of this new course to organize around the universal and free lending system of textbooks, that the educational community has been demanding unanimously since it was replaced by a system of aids which is ineffective, unfair and tremendously costly for public and private budgets. It is time to return to the universal and free loan; to consolidate a right to a public, universal and free education system, as I say. The universal and free loan system is the most efficient and sustainable, much more efficient than the current and much more efficient than you intend to introduce for the next course, which only aims to cut more than three million euros for help. And to establish a solidarity fund that I don't know if they want to be supported by their own families, because books almost don't exist at the moment. The BNG, finally and ultimately, demands responsibility from the Council, coherence and respect for an act that prioritizes the quality of public education in Galicia, which ceases to behave as an instrument in the service of the ideology of the PP, as a warrant of Wert and assumes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u118	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u119	...–end, President– their responsibilities in the defence of basic, compulsory, free and quality public education. Withdrawal from the Decree of Curriculums and deferral of LOMCE is the only solution for public education in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u120	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the word Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u121	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Counsellor, I told you -- I remember -- a few days ago when you arrived at the Council of Education, you had to start working and solve the real problems of our education system. And no doubt he didn't, but on the contrary. He missed an excellent opportunity to resume the course of dialogue around the controversy arising in his actions, in the actions of the Government of Greece in the field of language policy. You missed the opportunity to resume that path of dialogue. You despised and caused absolute chaos in our educational community with the application of the revolutions in Galicia, you unheard the opposition groups, you failed the parents and mothers, you failed the whole world and the result was a real organizational disaster of your famous revals. Last week, you published this so-called Order of Help for the Acquisition of Textbooks, that so-called "Solidary Background", which caused indignation and anger at equal parts in the centers, in the directors of educational centers, in the teachers and in all families. It's a real waste of what you're causing with your decisions and with your lack of minimal management capacity. I have to tell you with total honesty. And the subject we're dealing with today, I think it's going to cause a lot of chaos like what I just described. We have come to such a situation of degradation with our educational system that you intend to approve what is undoubtedly one of the most important documents for teaching activity, such as the ESO and Bachelor's Curriculum Decree, when the course is practically finished, when the teacher is precisely in the planning and organization phase of the next course, when the new schedules are being prepared and developed with the new distribution of the hourly load, and you are still in this process. He says they started there in March; the reality is that they have reached this point still that project is not finished. Then, besides – as you have endeavoured to say and to apologize – that this decree had successive amendments to the whole of Galicia School Council and that this same body had voted against, of course, to move forward or advance in the process of this decree, the situation is, of course, this. In addition, you have had a brief intervention – not that being brief is bad – because taking into account the importance of the topic has liquidated in twenty minutes a document that has about a thousand pages, where, as I said, they are all and each of the mechanisms that govern educational practice in the centers. Why are we talking about resumes? So we're talking about a document where the goals of the stage are reflected; the abilities, which are now committed to calling "competences"; the contents of the reference to knowledge, skills, skills, attitudes; the teaching methodology, not only teaching practice, but also the academic organization; the evaluation criteria. Everything is reflected in that Curriculum Decree. But not only that, you add three new elements, which are not new, are actually variations of the existing ones, a new terminology which is the common neo-language of the People's Party. The competences – as I said before – are a new way of calling them to abilities and incorporating this term back from the world of work. Secondly, the learning standards within this universe of revolutions in which we are immersed are indicators needed to compare the results of the different centers. And finally, the indicators of achievement of teaching programming – sections 21.3 and 33.4 of this decree – that are simply elements of indefinition in assessing the educational system. The draft curriculum decree of ESO and bac is all anthem to anti-pedagogy, really only at the height of what is the great reference work of this government, which is the LOMCE. In practice, it is a literal transposition of the Royal Decree that establishes the basic curriculum of ESO and bac. And in that sense I want to make several considerations: First of all, the first consideration, this is an absolutely uncontextualized document which has an obvious affair and which also involves a historical and cultural misrepresentation of our reality, of Galician history. Not just because I renounce that percentage, 45% of content, which by law can fix the Welsh Administration, but rather that it omits fundamental facts and events to know our own culture and identity. It is a document that, in addition, promotes a construction of the personality of the partial and undisclosed student, and, of course, outside – as I said – of our historical reality. He does not refer to German revolts; he does not speak of emigration, for example, a structural element in our country's socio-economic model; he does not speak, for example, of the victims of franchise, but he speaks explicitly, for example, of the victims of the Holocaust. Why that comparative aggravation? Second consideration, the ESO and bac curriculum decree is an authentic plan for the early segregation and selection of students. How does he do it? First of all, as we have already said, consecrating the revalids as an academic selection mechanism. The decrees you presented today contemplate the realization of a revalide when you finish ESO, ESO's room, and another revalid when you finish the bachelor's degree. Both are eligible for compulsory high school graduation and bachelor's degree. It's a race, therefore, of obstacles, that continues this career of obstacles already begun with the primary revalids, and that therefore submits the student to a constant and tortuous process of certification, evaluation and selection. Secondly, because these curricula exclude attention measures from the diversity of the curriculum. So they simply set out as a measure of attention to diversity the repetition, firstly, that appears clearly set forth and with an importance, of course, oversized from the pedagogical point of view. Early itineraries through basic vocational training, by the way, basic vocational training with no means, no real promotion options and no real options to achieve a qualification. And thirdly, with the programs -- that's another one of the news -- to improve learning and performance. It's a new element that they introduce to address diversity, but from a purely remedial and impoverishing point of view, dedicated only to those students who have repeated courses. With this decree, students and students of secondary and undergraduate education have more difficulty learning, they have more difficulty developing themselves and growing up as people, but they also have more difficulty moving forward academically, promoting and achieving a higher degree; only those with the best starting position, of course, will have ease. Third consideration, the curricula presented are a petulant exercise of false academicism, enhancing in theory, only in theory, instrumental subjects, mathematics and languages, and devaluing literature, philosophy, music... everything that sounds minimally humanist is degraded in this curriculum. You spoke of Philosophy; yes, although it has increased in the period of allegations an hour to the matter of Philosophy, but the History of Philosophy is not included in the second of bac. Fourth consideration, the presented curricula clearly certify the inclusion of the invasion of the economic business universe in the educational world. You even create a new, trunked matter in the ESO room called "Initiation of Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurship Activity." They even reach the point of turning that so-called sense of initiative and entrepreneurial spirit into key competition. The word "enterprise" appears more than 100 times in this document. It's really omnipresent. I often say the worst damage you're infringing on our education system is not only the cuts, it's not just the chaos and disorganization that they cause, but how they banish from the educational language the words that are own and hegemonic. They do not appear; they do not speak of cooperation, of solidarity, of mutual help, of exchange, of diversity, of plurality, these are the signs of identity of an educational system, and they are replaced by competitiveness, an entrepreneurial spirit, learning standards, quality indicators. And to see if we knew once, I would be satisfied with my exercise in Parliament if I had even managed to convince them that the teaching and learning processes are complex processes of knowledge exchange, attitudes, values, standards, experiences, etc. All this is difficult to reduce and evaluable through standardized indicators, quality certificates, achievement indicators, etc. Counsellor, this decree is a transposition of the LOMCE and the Royal Decree of the State. So you take on your skills, you decide to be the Councillor of Galicia. That's your duty. Don't keep running forward, it's a useless escape, LOMCE won't be applied in Galicia. Stop running, recapacitize, and serve the Welsh educational community, as is your duty. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, good afternoon. Mr. Rodríguez, you've been here for the second time since you've been the head of the Education Council, and I think you're doing so at a rather timely time, given the situation that the Galician educational community is experiencing in recent months. And we're going to start talking, obviously, about the reason for the appearance request, which has to do with the subject of the secondary and undergraduate curriculum. Although you have not given him any importance, the Galician School Council, that crowd of obstructionists – according to the very words you used today – discussed and rejected ESO curriculum projects and graduated just over a month ago, and did so with a clear democratic vote. I believe that any serious and rigorous political leader should take note because there are very important collectives in that forum that represent the whole of the education community in Galicia. You didn't, and you'll know why. A total of one hundred and sixty objections and proposals were presented in that consultative body by different groups and distributed as follows: seven amendments to all, sixty-five additions, thirty-seven replacements, forty-four deletions, and eight recommendations. Almost nothing, Mr. Rodríguez, almost nothing. A volume of measures not negligible – I insist – that should have led him to a deep reflection, but it gives me the impression that you just dispatched him saying that I am a panda of obstructionists. You continue to proceed in the same way as you did on your day with primary and basic FP curricula. You're doing what you're saying, a hasty processing, which will make it difficult for the teacher to put in place properly and calmly – it's also important – that decree at the beginning of the next course. Once again, Mr. Rodríguez, and there are many, a huge lack of respect for the teaching group. We are talking, Mr. Counsellor, of a draft curriculum, of a curriculum project that contains a great contradiction between the principles and the purposes it sets out and the measures it subsequently intends to regulate. A curriculum that does not provide real guarantees so that all students who run Religion can follow ethical and social content. A project that does not guarantee a true plan of attention to diversity. A curriculum, Mr. Counsellor, segregation and exclusive, also say what you say, which is channelled to certain learnings at the expense of other equally important ones. Mr Counsellor, there will be numerous organizational problems of such implementation at the beginning of the course, precisely because of this time pressure, it would be late for approval and publication in the DOG; difficulties in the elaboration of educational programming and schedules; chaos with textbooks, – I insist – yes, chaos with textbooks. You recover as soon as the universal loan system is done, I think it would be very good for the Greek education system. Serious problems, too. And also an important topic – and I suppose you didn't talk about it – for chess developers, because they'll have to adapt the whole application to the new decree, and they'll have to do it very quickly, probably working in August, Counsellor. And you were talking about the professionals in the house, because there's an example of respect. The discomfort at the beginning of the course is assured, say what you say, Mr. Rodríguez. And apparently you're not worried at all, because the fool will be for the centers and for your professionals, and not for you, who will be comfortably installed in San Caetano. It will also happen something similar to what happened on your day with the basic and primary FP decrees. We find ourselves, Mr. Rodríguez, at the end of the school course and the preceptive procedures will also delay, say what you say, the publication of the decree in the CEO; which is why – we insist on it – the work of the management teams and teachers will be greatly complicated to plan the next course. If we also consider that questions as relevant as evaluation orders will be pending, which is not a minor issue either. There is also another circumstance that concerns us, Counsellor, and I am referring to the change in the hourly burden of many subjects, which could affect the current configuration of the staff frames of the Greek educational centres, because there will be educational departments very affected by the changes in hours. And we don't think I'd be doing much more than doing a comprehensive study of the impact that the so-called timetable change will have on teaching staff. And to complete the fair, Mr. Rodríguez, this project conceives education as a continuous competition, with the aim of reaching only a part of the student. And to make it dangerously disregard the culture of our country, by eliminating from the school curriculum much of the relevant facts of our history, of our art, of our culture, and even of our thoughts. Another aspect that we want to denounce today, Counsellor, collecting the feelings of many professionals in education, is that we are facing overloaded curricula, unattainable content in most subjects, taking into account the educational burden assigned to them. Some content, in addition, clearly oriented towards academic learning, which does not assume an integral education, which forms critical people and values. You must ask yourself, Counselor, what reasons there are for submitting the student to the Greek and the whole system to such an unfair situation for the lives of so many boys and girls. In the same way, we have to ask ourselves why there are reasons for separating itineraries from such early years, that they will also sink, say what you say, without a doubt, in the segregation of students by socio-economic origin, incorporating as novice a model that has already proved inefficient in many countries. A preliminary project that ignores the evaluation model continues and recovers those revalids – we know you don't like that word – that so much controversy is generating in the Greek educational system. And I want to ask you today, Counselor, if you have data on today's day of how many students, how many children and children have done that test in the public education of the third grade of elementary school, and how much and what percentage would be of the total; in public education, I tell you, because in private education I already know that attendance was massive. It is also worth underlining, it seems to us, Mr. Rodríguez, that they disappear from previous curricula some subjects, some subjects that existed, and now they cease to exist, which will influence the staff of the centers themselves. Counsellor, I also want to tell you, with no accuracy, that the Socialist Group also wants to take advantage of this attendance to make a small balance of the course that has just been completed, that you have qualified as totally normal. And I want to tell you that in these months that you have been in charge there has been no change in our country's educational policy, but we have simply seen a mere change of face to continue to make the same policies that Mr Vázquez made; to continue, ultimately, with that silent revolution that you have been talking about in this Parliament in recent years. By the way, the change of faces that Mr. Feijóo came to carry out at the Council of the Government of the United Nations not for the sake of Greek citizenship, but for the pure interests of the People's Party itself, thus placing the institutions in the service of the People's Party. Changes that didn't work out for him in Vigo or Santiago, and we'll see how the topic ends in Ourense, where they are in the hands of a party – as you would say – "radical extremist" as is Ourensan Democracy. I told him last March that I didn't know if you'd have room for manoeuvre to make different decisions. I told him that thinking I'd like it to be, but after these months, I don't think so. I also told him that the education community in Wales demanded them and that their credibility as advisor would depend, to a large extent, on whether or not they could care for them. And I also know that you're convinced that we're living a silent revolution in Welsh education. But I've also always said, in recent times, that more than a silent revolution, we are here in the face of a loud involution. You know perfectly well that in 2009 the investment in per capita education was in Galicia of 860 euros, and now it's in 370. So that has clear repercussions for our system. They didn't care to lose 70 million euros in higher education, or that there's less resources for scholarships, that we have fewer teachers and worse conditions, that payouts were put in books and dining rooms, that thousands of young researchers had to take a suitcase to emigrate. I would also like to remind you, Mr Counsellor, that you are too proud of your successes, of your educational policies, of the increase in enrolments in FP, of the freezing of fees or of the kindnesses of the dual FP or the basic FP. A basic FP that you implemented nine months ago and didn't put up a single euro, and today you're asked again: why does a new form of education happen in September 2014 without putting a single euro? The course's over and there's the consequences. Like my companion Marisol Soneira would say: rain order in Havana! I also want to tell you today, Mr. Rodríguez, that the humble achievements of recent times are due to teachers. I also said that there were a lot of issues that measure the justice of a good education system, and you didn't think this important issue ever seemed to you, that we're talking about fairness for you is a minor issue. I want to finish this first part of my speech, Mr. Rodríguez, reminding you that you are facing the enormous challenge of progressively drawing this country out of the austerity in which it has been in recent years, although unfortunately I have serious doubts that it really counts you with margin of maneuver to do so. Believe me if I tell you that both me and the Socialist Group would like you to have that margin. Decisions that we think could seriously change this noisy involution undertaken by the PP in recent years and focus their efforts on ending this austerity and fighting for the stability, equity and excellence of the education system. But listening to your speech today, Mr. Rodríguez, allow me to tell you that I don't have that feeling. So I leave some further argument to the second part of my speech, to certainly make some proposals for it. I hope, Counselor, that you will learn from these situations and that you will see that the discomfort that is in the educational community at some point in time you will have to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u124	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Counsellor, good afternoon, welcome to this one who is your House too, to give explanations about something that seemed to have little relevance to the different voices of the opposition groups, who focused on the recurring of all these days ago, of all these sessions behind, and to put on the stage what is a message that they come to see in this House and in fact in the street persistently but inconsistently. Because it looks like it won't work out much. And even if some say here that there were 24 elections and that's why they want to do a projection of what's going to happen in a few months when the general elections are called, so that some who want to change the education law, because they're not afraid. We're not going to abandon the ship, we're going to put into operation the entire machinery of the People's Party, and we're going to do everything in our hand to win the elections. And those who fight against the worst that happened to us in the last thirty years, that was to have some education laws that didn't meet any of the objectives for those who were created, that doesn't happen and follow a law that's going on around the world; the only ones that are against you. And I respect a difference and a difference that I'm going to nuance Mr Docasar with all my affection. [[Applause]] You made a reference to a phrase of the Counselor, and you said: the silent revolution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, yes, "silent revolution" in the words of Mr. Rodríguez González. But you haven't completed your appointment, because Mr. Rodríguez González's full quote is: "A silent revolution that will improve education and bring us closer to the parameters of the most advanced countries around us, but it will not become a scene of partisan struggle and sudden revolutions that only pursue political interests." That's the concrete and complete quote from the councillor, to which you have not done any case, Counselor, nor even appealing to the sensitivity of opposition groups, which of much less sensitivity and speech, of much speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that you are against religion, of all religions, less of a romantic one that you have told us here... how, very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, in any case, you congratulated the mayors, which I think is good, and I can even congratulate them for their democratic victory. But it comes very to the story because also the counselor said from this rostrum, and it was vilipendated by all the political forces, to which you belonged too, because he said that children were stigmatized for opening school lunches in summer, and it turns out that it now stigmatizes when what governs is another and it turns out that they are approaching his speech. Well, welcome to the stigmatization speech. What happens is that, of course, one thing is preaching and another to give wheat. However, we are perfectly reminded of how Mr. Rodríguez was put here when he was a spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] In any case, welcome to this debate. And be careful because Caritas Diocesan also feeds needy children and people with vulnerability, yes food, and also belongs to the Catholic Church. You have to be a little careful with the things you say, that sometimes they turn against; it's not worth using Caritas for when you're interested and for when you don't, no. What about the universal loan of books? It's all right, but you see that few of you had the opportunity to manage in a school the universal loan of books, because all of you -- I'm also -- because all the teachers were against, and finally, you as director fell upon everything your fellows didn't want to do, because no one wanted to manage the universal bank of books or universal loan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know that directors would fall exclusively above all the weight of a non-existent management, that neither computer support nor books. And in the end, negotiations, right, with the editorials to give them more new books for the next course, in case someone didn't hand them over, which happened that they didn't deliver them. And, Mr. Vázquez, wait? Everything you want here, everything you want to hear. You refuse continuously, insists on another lexicon error by calling them "revalids", which are not revalids, Mr. Vázquez, learn this lesson, which are "individualized tests of evaluation", and so also appears in the decree, which must be read out, not only the parts that one is interested in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, dialogue and consensus. Dialogue and consensus we all want it; what happens is, two don't agree if one doesn't want it. And when reference was made here on their side and more on the rest of the voices, it was about the School Council. In fact, the School Council adopted decisions by a democratic majority: 20-17 was specifically, and zero abstentions. That's democracy. But 41 is also democracy, and having the majority in a parliament is democracy, and having a law in Madrid with the absolute majority is democracy too. [[Applause]] And at least it deserves the same respect as the rest of the respectable institutions that make their decisions by most. At least, the same thing that we had with LOXSE, with LOPEG and with LOE, which we didn't support, we didn't agree with either, but we respected them and we all did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We respect them and we do them all, right here in Galicia. That, by adapting them to the particularities, to the idiosyncrasy, to the history, culture and language of Galicia, to make a system far better than you did, with evaluable results in our European democratic environment, and not like what you presented, which was the worst educational history in Spain. I repeat: the worst of all the educational history of Spain. And they don't voluntarily include the word "democratic" because even those of non-democracy were much better than their own, and I'm not making an appeal here to any system. But all the laws that were in force in this country were socialist laws, all of them, because even the 1980s that had passed the UCD did not come into force because of the famous 23-F and because of or because it immediately won the PSOE elections in Madrid, but it did not come into force, gentlemen. The rest are yours. And now they deny them because a prominent leader who was mayor and executive member of the Socialist Party recently in a television debate had to tell us that, of course, the blame for Spain's educational situation was the PP, because the education laws of the PP, three by two of the PSOE... regrettable, regrettable. She doesn't even know what they are. Or if you know it and you intend to manipulate public opinion, and you intend to manipulate your parents, as you manipulated your parents with the famous individualized third grade evaluation tests. I say "pressure" and they're going to lead to the back," I said the other day, to the back, to their back, all and every one of those students who haven't been tested and who are likely to be subject to some of the teaching measures... yes, yes, yes, you don't mind. And now when they come back, they give me another pedagogy lesson, which I will receive for good. But they will not be subject to corrective measures or program contracts, because within the evaluation, Mr Docasar, who you have been director, within the evaluation, individualised tests continue to be a more diagnostic tool for the educational process of students. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you blackmailed your parents, -- I repeat -- they blackmailed them, they sent them apps one morning to their parents' private phones so they wouldn't take their children to do the tests. [[Murmurs.]] And now that everything has been developed normally, with absolute normality, you want to do apologize. [[Protests.]] Then keep doing it. We will continue to defend the interests of the Greek educational system, which is our obligation, with a democratic law and with an application, with a decree – they will already tell us why they are against him, who have not yet said anything – with a decree that develops the particularities and specificities of the Greek people, their students and their families, to which they will play a role...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u127	...in favor of the integration of your children, and not that they are part of that nearly a million and a half that you threw into the street without any qualification or possibility of obtaining it. And now that you know that you're against FP, too, that will provide them with professional accreditation, the only way they have to get it. But they can... yes, come here and say it from here... Don't talk to me from the gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u129	...speak from here, that everything is recorded. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u130	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Replica, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I wanted to start doing some punctuations after what we heard here, and the first one is Mrs. Churches. We see that he is very concerned about the education of the Greeks, he spoke only of Religion. And the truth is, he's had a basic forgetfulness: it's a voluntary subject. And I'd do two corrections. First, LOMCE has fewer hours of religion than LOE should know. And the second, which I think was a slip of yours, called "sequencings" to teachers who share religion. I think it's called a "sequoise" rostrum to a professional, that most of them are secretaries, graduates or graduates in different subjects, that if they're called sequels... you could take advantage of the second intervention to democratically apologize to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Secondly, with regard to Mr Pombo. Mr. Pombo told us here about failed educational policies. What are they? What are the failed educational policies?, those of the last decades in democracy?, those that have led Spain, the whole of Spain, to the highest school failure data in the European Union?, or those that have led Spain to have very high levels of educational quality under the investments made? If you want to talk about failure and failed educational policies, it would be good if you needed it, because you might be confused with your criticism and would criticize other political formations. I'm almost sure of that. And also, the truth is, I don't know if you heard me or not; I tried to spread my didactic vocation, perhaps, I did it wrong, didn't I? But I think I spoke clearly of linguistic balance, clearly, equal academic level in hours and in all the senses of Galician Language and Spanish Language, and also of specialized subjects, with very related contents to Galicia: Landscape, Literature, Culture, History... well, I don't know. As I don't know, Mr. Vázquez, I am also self-criticizing, perhaps my didactic vocation is decreasing, but I think I have clearly told you that Thursday 25 will rise to the board of board the decree for approval, and the deadline and registration ends on July 10. We are again in the same strategy as ever: alerting about chaos that never comes to an end. And you should know too, Mr. Vázquez, because he is a professional of education and teaching, when the decrees of LOE were passed not too long ago: in July, at the end of July, those of ESO and those of Bachelorship. I suppose the qualifications you dedicated to him when we first passed the registration document to this rule because he will have to magnify them to criticize what was done in his time with socialist legislation. And, by the way, Mr. Vázquez, music keeps the same hours, and philosophy grows even though you said otherwise here. And I would also like to need Mr Docasar a number of questions. I didn't call anybody "pandilla". I want you to be very clear in this House that I didn't call anybody a gang. No matter how much you said I said this, I didn't call anyone, no one's "traping" him, please! And you speak of contempt for teachers, and I'm going to tell you one thing: do you know who designed the curricula, who designed the contents, who designed the learning methods? It wasn't me, it wasn't my management team, it wasn't a People's Party deputy, it was eighty teachers. And when you speak of contempt for teachers, of contempt for teachers, you should know that this 1,000-pig-page curriculum is technically developed by teachers absolutely, by teaching professionals, with which I would also ask them a little bit of respect. And I'm also surprised to hear that "socially segregating itineraries" are taking place. Is it rich or poor?; being of humanity or being of technical subjects, as you say here, is socially segregated in the itineraries posed by decrees, is it rich or is it poor? It's just that you really apply an absolutely serious speech, and I'd like you to need it. Because when you say you do some itineraries where at the bottom of what's going on is that the student, depending on his abilities and interests, opts for one educational line or another, and planting it from the social point of view of social segregation, it's good that he needs it, because, at best, we realize that those of letters or science have a different social or sociological characteristic. The truth is that frequently – and that is lawful – from the bench in this case on the left there are multiple criticisms, few proposals, but criticisms are launched a huge number of them. And that's not good or bad, it's not good or it's bad. But I'd like you to do a little bit of self-criticism, not a lot, but a little bit of self-criticism on your part. What you question most of all, and what they like most is that you speak of normality in the application of this organic legislation. And I'd like to set a number of examples, so that we can see normality and see the political strategy that's being followed, which has been followed by the opposition bench for many years. Obviously, I apologize, there's a question that's true, LOMCE has an original sin. If it's an original sin that it's not a socialist law... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u132	Mrs. Martínez, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u133	...It is a law that was not driven by the Socialist Party, with which it is an original sin, Mrs. Martínez. Well, then if you want to define it. But, of course, if this law were driven by a left-wing government or the Socialist Party, just as the successions of organic laws were driven in this country over the last few decades, which is the obvious proof that they did not succeed in any of them, because there would be no problem, but as a People's Party law is bad. You have that original sin. What are we gonna do to him? When there's a change of standard, there's always a moment of uncertainty, but I'm going to make a few minimal memories so we can see how weak the memory is. Look, when the bipartisan had to implement LOE, socialist law, the situation wasn't as agitated as it is now. But let's go to the hemerothecs: "Four thousand students and teachers protest for the new bachelor's degree," or Bachelor's degree driven by the Socialist Government at that time. Pretty faint memory; this was April 30th of the year 2008. There is a dialogue on Education, which ensures that the decree is still in consultation. But the next day: "The Education Counsellor says that the bachelor's decree will continue without modifications." Great example of dialogue. And then they also tell us here at that time: "A couple hundred people manifest themselves to call for the paralysis of the bachelor's decree and ask for the cessation of Sánchez Piñón." As you ask for mine. What are we gonna do to him? In any case, what I want to tell you is that when you change a rule there are uncertainties, but you have to also say that at this moment the uncertainties are much smaller than at other times. And surely the political strategy is always the same: LOMCE is bad, its development is bad; everything the People's Party proposes is bad, and everything we pose in our optics is positive. And there is a serious task of absolute questioning – I would say – to all that is being developed as the mandate of an organic law, which, by the way, is absolutely democratic and we have an obligation to comply. And here's the third primary evaluation test, and we've said it. Well, here was talk of chaos, about getting rid of it; I wouldn't say so much. There was an active and passive criticism, you called "revalid" to generate a negative climate in social perception when you know it's not, they generated a huge alarm, they called the boycott. And, well, you knew or should know perfectly well that this is a diagnostic assessment test, which, by the way, is very similar to what you've been doing in the primary room in application of the LOE, and there wasn't a single criticism. And it's also very similar to what is done in Andalusia in primary second. And, as I said, we're used to having a project or a political action if it's done by PP is bad, bad, if it's done by the left-wing conglomerate because it's okay and it's fantastic. But, well, most of Galician children and girls – as you know – around 80% have done the tests normally. And, Mr. Docasar, you said that the children were stressed, that the children were crying, that they were crying, that they were crying through the corridors... And you know what reality tells us the next day, you know what the kids said? That they were sucked. We understand that we are trying to generate an alarm, a social feeling as pesorative, but, look, there was no problem with this issue, there were no reprisals, there were no pressure; there was a call to responsibility and there was a call to have the tools to detect educational deficiencies as soon as possible and we can put in place corrective measures. That's what we want with these evaluation tests. And what if there was a prior strategy to fuel a controversy and generate an alarm, why? Because, of course, if you put the PP is bad, if you put it in our room because it's positive. But, well, we always see it, we see it constantly; we are again and again seeing how you act in this matter. And we're going to talk about another question, which I think is also significant, which was said here, which was said here about a year ago: the opening of school dining rooms in the summer. At that time I was a Member, the Education Spokesman, we made a transaction to an initiative in this case of AGE. I said clearly that there was a need to help children who could have access to food problems, but I warned – and so it appeared placed in the text – that it should be the municipal social services that guaranteed that service, because they were the ones who best knew the concrete reality of each family or of every particular case. And here, Mr Vázquez, time gives and takes away reasons, because you and once approved this initiative have criticized us for active and passively saying that we didn't want to open the school dining rooms. And look – you said so too, Mr. Spokesman of the People’s Party – look how fast – let’s say – these mayors are glad that they govern because they turn around and use that word that you seem like a cursed word, stigmatization. Look, the mayor of Madrid, Mrs Manuela Carmena, literally said it's better – as we thought – to carry out catering to families because it's less stigmatizing than going with children to school. That's clearly in the media. And a mayor and in a council very close to us, because a mile away and peak is their headquarters, the new concierge of the Education and Citizenship Area in a media also tells us -- and I read literally -- "Our criterion is that this is addressed in the Social Policy department. It seems to us that it is much better to care directly for families who have needs than to assign a certain center of the public network, because this could lead to a certain stigmatization." [[Murmurs.]] That was said by a conceler, the new conceler of education and citizenship of the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela. And I remember, we all remember, the fierce, brutal criticisms that you launched last year on this subject. And this comes a little bit in the line that we're saying: a project is taken out, it's fiercely criticized and after time nothing happens at all. Another question: you in Parliament, in this House, have repeatedly claimed that the Council of Galicia took over the dining rooms managed by the ANPAs; we have heard it many times. What happened? That when Junta confronts this problem, and does so with realism and ensures the sustainability of the system, and assumes the eaters of ANPA, you critical. So we don't know what to do anymore, because what's really going on is wrong with you, even then when it's done, you, like that apostle who fell off the horse, and he realizes that maybe we were wrong with you, or when it comes to implementing policies, he realizes that those policies that you criticized here put them in motion. Well, we're in those. And something similar to this escape strategy is happening this year on the subject of textbooks. Well, you always proposed and always defended a universal loan system, of books for everyone regardless of income, a coffee for everyone, right, they've been saying hundreds of times. But they should also know that this loan that you're defending was never a universal loan, that books that weren't bought from the Dog itself, and they should also know that a high percentage of families were buying books, with which families had a play of books in the house and another one in the center. Obviously, this system has evolved, and the democratic government of the Galician Union, since 2009, democratically modifies the system and moves on to a system of solidarity freeness, which poses under a very important premise to help those who need it most and to provide in this case school books according to income. Economic aid to families based on income. For what? To dominate more families who need it most. And you've criticized him a hundred times, thousands of times, I dare say. Today they return to a kind of janja vu repeating again and claiming again a universal and free loan that never was, and showing evidence in the sense that they are criticizing a system of redistribution based on income, which we understand is much more socially fair because it concentrates aid on families who need it most. That's the model of our system. By the way, if we compare it to other autonomous communities, you will know and will be able to compare the remarkable, the remarkable effort that the Galician Union makes, that it does, that we do the whole set of Greeks to be able to provide help to families who need it most. And look, the system, this book bank system is evolving and is evolving, and it's also being asked in this House and in multiple fields to evaluate the experiences of book banks. In fact, we did, and we incorporated it into the Council's programmes and systems. But, of course, we also curiously realize that those who yesterday asked for books banks to be made in the centers, today they criticize the banks of books in the centers. Well, it gives the feeling that on many occasions these criticisms rather than thinking about the interests of families, rather than thinking about the well-being of children and children, they think about other matters. Because, really, it gives the feeling that you're starting from a sort of dogma, basically ideologically basic, which prevents you from seeing what's behind and what's behind it. Behind it is a system to provide families with the most needed books to develop the learning process of their children. And that's a logical evolution of the system. First, it's apostatized by digital books, where there's no social difference in digital books; so far we could get there, right? No social differences, no platform. This first year has already been a first experience, quite successful by the way; for the new course it is still being implemented. And there's a growing momentum in digital books. Second, checks are kept for families who need it most according to income, for all courses except for the third and fifth primary and second and fourth ESO education, where books banks are created here last year, the book banks were created. And here are those families who received cheques last year to be able to buy books, this year – it was so in order – they will deposit those books in the centers, to create in those centers books banks, public book banks, solidary books funds. And this is the main initiative. By the way, it is very well supported by the people's defender, whom you, when interested in using it to criticize the policies of the Union, very well regarded by the people's defender. And here perhaps you have to say clearly how this background works, because here it looks like we're creating a kind of anomalous situation. Look, how does this solid fund of textbooks work? The students, the families who received help from the Educational Administration last year to buy books, they're going to deposit them in the centers, there were dates on the 19th of last week; also some centers will voluntarily extend the deadline, absolutely nothing happens. But these market book funds with public aids could also be complemented by the nearness of the books that families could voluntarily make. From then on, from this constitution of these solidarity funds, what you do is you set up a list with reverse order depending on income, so that those families with less income have greater book input and progressively, as it goes on to improve – let's say – the income level, because it's going to get less of the book input. What are you looking for with this? That no family that is worthy of receiving the help of the Self-Government to buy books will stop them, and it will be via booksbanks or will be seen by the malls of the lots of books. No family – I insist – to be within the thresholds to have help from the Autonomous Community to have textbooks will be left without textbooks, and a priority will be given to which families with less resources will be primaryized, and I also want that to be very clear. And for that we make a computer application, called "Found books", which will be adjusted by the centers and will allow us to contribute and manage more effectively what the contributions of books from the centers to the families are. By the way, – the spokesperson, Mr. Farínas also said – in his own moment the directors of the centres did have work with the system you were proposing. In any case, we respect the legitimate differences that may exist, it's normal. Now, we do not share – I say publicly in this House – those attitudes that are oriented more to divide than add to it. And it seems to us that taking into account and starting from this, and taking into account the general interest, I appeal again to Parliamentary headquarters for the responsibility and collaboration of the educational community in the constitution and management of the solidarity fund of textbooks. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity fund of textbooks is nothing more than a public book bank, a public book bank where the less-favoured families will have greater support, which will be managed by public officials and will be absolutely free. I think that's very important: we're talking about a solidarity fund that's no less than a public bank of textbooks, managed by public officials, where the less favoured families will have greater support. I'm sure if we all cooperate, we'll have a system of greater power. Obviously, we'll have to be adjusting issues, which will happen, something absolutely normal when a new system is implemented, but what I do is a call to integration, and if I make a call to collaboration. I have very clear - we have it very clearly - that if we join our efforts, if we prioritize what really matters, which is to provide books to families, not only will we add, but we will multiply the positive effects that these banks can have on the student. And, look, what we're really worried about is that books get to whoever needs them, and that in this case the solidarity fund -- I insist -- that it's no more than a public bank of books, because it's a reality and it helps those who need it most, which is what matters most, who helps who needs it most. And one last reflection to finish. It's also a common dogma by the opposition saying that the education system has less resources today, it has less money than in 2009. And I say, yes, yes, yes, you're right, I don't take it from you. Now I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how was a government with less resources able to improve what improved education? And we can put many examples, many variables. [[Protests.]] For example, school failure, how much did the school failure fall since 2009 and how much did the government Fraga and the Government Tourin?, how much?, how much? [[Murmurs.]] How much increase has been made in vocational training squares? How many new modalities have been increased? How much did students increase with these new technologies? How much did students who are studying in multilingualism increase? How much did the school dining room increase? How did university rates evolve? How's the teacher's role? How is school harassment? How's the cohabitation? They can answer us, I give them their reasoning, and you have more money. Now, don't tell us they did it better, because if we make a comparison of these variables, we'll see that their results were frankly very improved and quite poor. In any case, education policy driven by a succession of organic laws by socialist governments, I think we all know it. And we now have an opportunity that will advance on two fundamental variables: first, from the point of view of quality and improve the results, educational evaluation through projects, through a methodological change; and second, greater equity, because there is nothing more anti-equity than 25% of young people go to the street without any type of titration, and that will correct this law through basic vocational training. I think that's why this law deserves your support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u134	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u135	Thank you, President. Mr. Román, I don't attack religions. It's the religions that attack me. By the mouth of their hijackers, certain bishops, such as Granada, who do not stop throwing pearls through that mouth, insulting everyone. They'll apologize to me first. I'm not going to apologize to the Catholic Church, I don't have to apologize to them, they are the ones who have to ask forgiveness to a lot of citizens, and especially women, for the treatment we receive on the part of this sect, which condemns us to obscurantism, which denies our vote, which considers us to be inferior, etc., etc. I do not repeat the pearls that are saying certain sequels of the Catholic Church because I myself am ashamed to repeat them, Mr. Román; I am ashamed to repeat these things. So that angry thing. Religion, Mr. Román, out of school. Religion in temples, mosques, Jewish temples, where I have to go to the people who have beliefs. And I have nothing against it, what if I have against it is that it is financed by public funds, that I am against it, and above all a professor who depends only on the Catholic Church, who, by the way, mistreats them, because if one of these teachers divorces – it is not the first or the second case – as divorce does not enter the moral category of the Catholic Church, he is dismissed to open-ended and without rights, which is amazing! With regard to school dining rooms, I'll remind you that the People's Valedor said that when a child starves, the family goes hungry. The problem of that child's hunger, which you said "access to food" when a child is hungry, which commands carai also to use that language when we talk about the hunger of the children and the children of Greece! Access to food a right, please! Well, that's not an individual problem for the child or the child, that's a problem for the whole family. If a child or a child is hungry, that whole family is starving. So it's the whole family that has to receive that benefit, that doesn't have to provide Caritas. By the way, these families find themselves in that situation because of their policies, you are responsible for this poverty. Yes, yes, yes, you deny it here, now it's my turn to speak, and I listen politely. [[Murmurs.]] You are with your policies, with your labor policies, with your policies of cutting rights, with your policies of cutting public utilities, social services, yes, yes, yes. I'm very clear, just as we have very clear all those people that we're going to put the vote in the poll in the generals as we deposit it in the municipalities. That's why those mayors whom I congratulated, and to whom I am very grateful, do not know how! for at last I feel represented by a public institution, at last! on this matter. That's why these mayors don't give those meals in schools, give them to families, because it's the families that need them. On the other hand, not revalids, they're called revalids. And I'm going to tell you one thing: the idea of education is not to have to examine children. Let's see, a child with a continuous evaluation doesn't have to suffer another test, it's proven. Why do you put yourself under that pressure? Why not let children and children enjoy receiving culture, receiving principles, being trained to be a free citizen who has enough training in the future, allowing them to choose whether they want to be like you say licensed, or how do you want to be a plumber? That's not the goal of education, it's not to train people who are the gears of the labour market. That's not the educational ideal, for nothing; if it's the educational ideal of this law, you're confused. I don't care if more religious hours were contemplated at the LOE, I don't care exactly. I have claimed religion out of schools, and here I represent a lot of people, because always, always, has been in schools, always, and it's okay! When are you going...? What do you owe the Catholic Church? It's just that I don't understand, that commitment that they have to put religion in classes, as optional or as non-optional. I don't care! Out of the classroom the religions: the Catholic, the Protestant, the Muslim. By the way, I would also like to remind you that it is not only Caritas who feeds citizenship, the Muslim Brothers, in Gaza and the West Bank, and also here in certain depressed Muslim neighborhoods, they also feed their own, because it is no longer religion, it is the civil organizations that are taking care of the problems that you have created. Please don't tell lies. Mr. Farinas, I don't know what country you live in when it says this law is passed all over the world. It's against the whole society! If you're against the ANPA, if you're against the unions, if you're against the students, the teachers, you're against the whole world. Well, I'm out of time, thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u136	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u137	Thank you, President. Counsellor, of course, LOMCE is not the model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u138	Sir Beers, be quiet, please. A member of the Galician Nationalist Block is in use. [[Murmurs.]] As for who is in the use of the word. Respect! [[Murmurs.]] Let's not start, which today is the quiet thing. Mr. Pombo, whenever you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, LOMCE is not the model of law our country needs, we debate it for active and passive. It's clear that for the Block, it's a classist, privatising, centralist, old-fashioned law that's not suited to our reality. It's the model of the People's Party, but not ours or most of the Galician society, which for active and passive for more than a year has been pronounced against it. I know that for you it's the law of greater equity, that equity that the children of our rural people have today in Luintra - Noueira de Ramuín - in Amoeiro, in Vilardevós, in the Magnificent Mountain, throughout our countryside, they still don't know what teacher they will have, if two levels will be grouped together, three or more than three. That, of course, is not the quality model that the Block defends. These students, parents and mothers of the same are very concerned and have long claimed from the Council a solution to these educational problems in our rural areas. But the People's Party, who is governing Galicia, seems to have no solution to this problem. But now there's also a serious problem in high school, most of today, not the BNG, most of the educational centers, the teacher, the management teams are very concerned because for next year they don't know what information to give parents at the time of enrollment, because they don't know what teachers they will have, what schedules they will have, or what subjects they will have. So it's not just the concern of rural people, it's also in high school. I think it's very good that you're betting hard on vocational training, I guess 53,000, must be a lot of them. But what I know is that there are many Greeks and many Greeks who want to go to this FP in public education, but there's not enough demand, because they should probably go to private. So, the Galician board, the Education Council's bet on the FP, but not how I'd have to bet on it, because I would have to offer the offer in public school or cover the demand at least that there is. That of freeness, let's say, the universal loan is not an invention of the BNG. And the one who fell off the horse in this case because we could apply it to the counselor himself, who seems to return to the universal loan system but called. And chaos does not bring him to opposition to the educational debate, chaos does it to the council itself, that nothing but walking through any center of those in our country will know that the teacher is setting fire, because I know now, as they are so well considered by the counsellor, will give him free jobs here to collect the books, and so that the professor himself will tell his parents whether this book is worth it to them, if they are not worth it, to qualify to see how much you want, to see which place you go in. And for me, of course, what I think is that cutting more than three and a half million euros in book aids is not a very good way, especially when the debate is about to call. Because the BNG always said that with the money I had come to invest the People's Party on this bottom were enough, well managed, for everyone. So that's not the system. But now it turns out that books are not for everyone, almost everyone pays, most pay; only there are a few that receive 90 euros of help – a few – and a minority 180, but most pay. And now the system comes back from the background. Who causes chaos? In the course of the past, the Council gave clear instructions to the centres that the books had not changed, from which most of the centres had not changed any books. And now what happens on these levels where books are to be collected? That a few are LOE, LOMCE there are almost none and most even some have no book. So, this at the bottom of the books is very good, and now he wants the Councillory to have these funds fed from something that doesn't pay the Councillory, that is, the parents who pay and give it to the Councillory. So it's a heated debate and a chaos that caused the council itself to carry out bureaucratic work, administrative work to all Galician centers, when most of them don't even have an administrative one. Of course, in periods of evaluation they have nothing to do or nothing to do. Therefore, chaos caused by the council itself, again cutting off the funds devoted to books and a solidarity fund that no one understands. The counselor, of course, went out here and said, "No, there will be books for everyone; but in the order that he put there nothing at all." In order, of course, what happens is that things are done so quickly that then they blame the opposition to the chaos just like that. So we're still asking for LOMCE to be added to high school. I know you just told Mr Farinas that with all the machinery of the People's Party they'll keep going with the LOMCE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u141	With all the machinery of the People's Party, we walk to the abyss. Perhaps many parents are forced to buy a new book, which will probably be an expired book before the course is finished. So we ask you to think things out and tell the centers not to change texts because we all know that LOMCE was born dead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u143	And before the next course is over, there will be no such LOMCE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u144	Thank you, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u145	...so don't force parents to spend the money they don't have. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u146	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u147	Well, the truth is, counsellor, is that in his intervention he spoke very little, by saying almost nothing, of the resumes, both in the first and in the replica. That's how important I imagine they are. And Mr. Farínas didn't talk about the Curriculum Decree either. Yes, Mr. Farinas has spoken that they would not abandon the ship; an expression which at least implies a timid recognition that the ship makes water. Because that's what they say when things go a little bad, right? "We're not going to leave the ship," the coaches say when the team goes a little bit wrong in the classification table. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if Mr. Farinhas is going to abandon the ship, but the truth is that Mr. Wert, as we know, meditates on his march as ambassador to the OECD – that is a glorious retreat that has been prepared for him, so it is said – the former advisor is a precarious mayor in Ourense; and I don't know if Mr. Rodríguez meditates to return to municipal policy in Lalin, but he has been complicated because Mr. Crespo has led a most important defeat also after twenty-five years in the mayorship. [[Murmurs.]] The subject is complicated, but it's all right, it's all right. What happens to Mr. Farinas is that he shakes the revals, he chooses them, it's something that shakes him, he pushes himself to conceal himself. And I understand that it shakes him, but they assume his failure, they assume that they were unable to explain to Greek citizenship the purpose of those absolutely useless and sterile evidence. And nothing happens to admit it, I think that citizenship is tired of its representatives standing up in unremovable positions like this, then above all that they have said to them high and clear, denying the families to which their children had done the test. A whole exercise – as we say – of citizenship and responsibility on the part of citizenship. We're accused here of creating alarmism, manipulating, generating public opinion. My mother, we have incredible media control over the Gaga de Left Alternative Group. Of course, it's great that they use those words to us. Speaking of Religion – I didn't mean to talk about Religion, what happens is that it seems impossible not to do so – I'm going to read some of the criteria for evaluation of the Religion curriculum: "Knowing with astonishment and trying to understand the divine origin of the cosmos and distinguishing it from chaos and chance." Another assessment criterion: "Acknowledging the person's inability to achieve happiness on his own." They are fundamental educational principles. I wonder if anyone in the exercise of their sense of justice can make these criteria of evaluation compatible with science, biology and even common sense. How can you tell a little thing to a child in a classroom and when you change class exactly tell him the opposite? And that's the responsibility you have in front of this council. No one here said that the training itineraries were segregations, what is segregation is to direct students who have difficulties at age will be early to unexited learning itineraries, without options to promote and without means to receive reinforcements and support. That's the basic FP. That's why we're against it; it's not a position of standing against it, we're against it because it fits, it leaves without academic output and also professional to children who decide this formative itinerary. And you said that the original sin of LOMCE was that it was a law of the PP, no, here it is wrong. Look, the original sin of LOMCE is that it was passed alone, in the most absolute loneliness and against the whole world by the People's Party, against all the parties represented in Congress, that it has it! LOE is not a law, of course, that seems to me excellent, but it was passed by the majority group, the PSOE, and with the support of five parliamentary groups, it was not passed alone. In fact, LOMCE is the only law that was passed in absolute solitude by a government. You have everyone against you, but you're actually against everyone, at least most social. So they have that complex that we have the mania to go up here because we have mania to them, and that's not reality, that's a complex that you have to solve. Don't distort social reality. The obligation to open school dining rooms during vacation is from the Government of Wales, not from the municipalities; that's the problem. And what we're defending here in this gallery is that school eaters had opened up within the educational centres that had opened up on vacation days to provide an integral service, leisure activities, leisure time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u149	... sport activities, which allowed the family and work life of all families, not only those who have no resources. And so, in an integral way, allowing people who have no resources to also have access to a hot food dish. You don't talk about stigma, the ones that we defended exactly an integral act were us. But that's an obligation of the Greek Government, not to lay it on top and on the backs of the new municipalities, which have enough with the narrow margin of budget manoeuvre that they leave them. So he defends public education and – I repeat it every time I come here –
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u151	...stop playing the victim's role that we're all against you. At the moment he defends public education, he will rely on our support; on the contrary, he does not dream of it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u153	There was a small accident. Don't worry, Counselor, nothing happened. We're here. Before Mr. Farinhas arrived at dawn, he came fully lit, came up in tone; at last he said he had a powerful machine set in motion. Well, I imagine so, like the rest of the political parties. Or do you think the Socialist Party doesn't have the fat machinery to win the election with Pedro Sánchez and be the next president of the government? Of course we're going to, don't worry, Mr. Farinas, there's no doubt we're going to try. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I don't know if we'll get it, but if we'll try it, don't have any doubts. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Take it easy. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, I want to go big on this second shift. I want to ask you here today to address the Government of Spain so that it urgently calls for the Sectoral Conference of Education once all the new elected parliaments, the new self-governments that emerged from the elections of May 24th. The idea would be, Counselor, to share what needs to be done and whether they are willing to continue with that run-down calendar, or, on the contrary, they propose paralyzing the application of LOMCE or at least slowing down that chaotic calendar that is literally suffocating the whole of the education community in Galicia. Don't forget, Counselor, that the autonomic map has changed, they like it or not, and it has changed radically in these elections, and that you will only preside over five autonomous communities, and two of them uniprovincial. That too must be known, and that too is a political theme of high value – I believe – and must not be obvious. They ignore that they're making a mistake. I also want to take this second turn to ask you again for some things that would have to start doing progressively. You say we don't make proposals, if we make proposals; another thing you do with our usual proposals, which is usually nothing. Counsellor, if the recovery has come to our economy, it's also time for that recovery to reach the education community of Galicia, too, it must come. And for teachers to perceive it, you'll have to do some things, or you can keep trying to do the same, not change anything, and you'll be satisfied. I think we have to change things. And I imagine you're planning the course that comes – imaginable – that's the obligation of a counselor. By the way, do you think the centers, when they're launching their educational offer right now, are going to wait until June 25 for you to announce a decree what they have to do, or do you think that the centers don't have to elaborate diptics, elaborate plates long in advance in order to do things? I think things must be done in advance. So, even if they publish this at the DOG on Thursday, they'll be quite late enough to be able to do things in a common sense. Mr. Rodríguez, the Socialist Group wants to propose to you again today a series of simple, certainly simple measures, but I think it is important for the Galician society and the whole educational community to perceive whether you have the possibility of doing something different or you will simply administer the inheritance that left the current mayor of Ourense – as Mr. Vázquez called it – in precarious. They're very concrete proposals, you've got a year and a half ahead, it's not much, but a year and a half ago to be able to do things, it's something you can do. It's not, of course, Counselor, to suddenly recover the 400 million euros lost in recent years, with which you've done a lot more; they've even arranged lots of schools, they've done new schools, they've arranged new workshops, they've put on new ceilings, they've made sports pavilions, they've done a lot more with less, we already know. Counsellor, what specifically do I ask of you? They gradually reshape the conditions seized by the teaching group; they gradually reshape the squares of lost teachers; they put in place a plan to improve the facilities in the centers; they renew their equipment and, fundamentally, educational equipment, mainly computer equipment; they start working to correct the digital divide in serious and not propaganda; they provide educational centres that have implemented the basic FP nine months ago with resources and teaching materials – I think it will not be so much to ask that after nine months the centers get something! – that they avoid having no child or child compulsory education left without a dining room or without textbooks. You say they're all going to have textbooks. This is not guaranteed, Counselor; it is not guaranteed with that devious system that you call pompically "system of solidarity free", which is neither free, nor is it solidarity. The universal loan system was guaranteed. By the way, Mr. Fariñas, of course he gave work to the centers, he would miss more! But the directors knew how to organize, talk to teachers, tutors and organizational departments and organize things, of course they did, and they went ahead, because of course they did. That's right. Well, but right now there's a very deep discomfort, you'll know why if the ANPAs are really asking for something that is totally unfair, they're -- I think -- quite angry. You will say whether that is so or not, but the whole perception of society is so, and you can still deny it. I think it's also time to restate what's been spent, that is, for the centers, for operating expenses, they've also lost a lot in that area; that they're also resettling the conditions of their own universities, that they've also lost a very important amount of resources; that they're looking for that lost language consensus; and, finally, that they're trying to do something between the different councils to recover the emigration of our youth. So, Counsellor, I believe that these are measures that can be done if you have political will, if you have sensitivity and if you really have room for manoeuvre. Mr. Flours, don't worry, we'll put that machine working to try to win their elections, have no doubt, without accuracy, don't worry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u154	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I hope you try to win, we'll try and see who convinces or doesn't. And we'll see if he comes up with street noises or if people really are much smarter than many politicians think and vote in a common sense, and they vote for what's right for them and not for advertisements that some people leave in different ways. Among other things, I hope you have the arrests of getting involved in how many of you will need Spanish flags to say that you are the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and we'll see what the environment is helping us to do our electoral campaign and see if we all defend what we stand for or say whether we defend as Spain or not. We'll see, everyone will have to give their explanations, we'll give ours, not the slightest doubt. With respect to textbooks. Yes, but what about the management teams, the teaching teams, the departments, the puppetry, when you were ruling, you were supercompetent and able to organize the distribution of books, and now that the People's Party is ruling, they're becoming clumsy and they're not who? Home!, they will be equally able to organize a book bank, and they will also rely on the support of the ANPAs, who were the ones who asked for active and passive use of this book bank. And now that they're granted the vein of the book bank, they're all against it. Of course, you said that everything is due to an discomfort. But, of course, the ways of interpreting discomfort are smallpox. Trouble with the books, of course just like discomfort with the diagnostic assessment tests, either in the fourth, or in the third. I had the opportunity to do the room at my school and, of course, as I explained to the children I was going to meet that day. Ah! for I would explain it all normally, as an activity more within the process of continuous evaluation. Of course, I didn't get to the beginning of the course and I told them: this year you'll find out, at the end of the course we're going to take an exam that what you don't approve won't pass course; you'll see, very difficult, you have to study the whole course to do... No, no, absolute normality, one more activity within the evaluation continues; something you want to make obvious, and obviously in your speech, because it gives you the urge. Who, on what page of the nine hundred and thirteen that has the decree found you to suppress the continuous evaluation? I'd like you to tell me where he is, because I read it, but I didn't find him, really, Mr. Docasar. We'd like him to explain where he is, he doesn't show up. Mr. Pombo, with all due respect, you say that you talked about failure, returning to the policies of failure. What was he referring to? Because returning to the policies of failure, it's the ones before. The ones now, unfortunately not the ones we wish they were, are much better than the ones we were when we arrived. You approve any of the international reports and see the basic skills, especially competition in Mathematics, linguistic competition. See what the data was from that one and the data from now on. Curiously, the two competencies that were evaluated in the third test, that proof that everyone here is demonizing, but that you accompanied when ruling the bipartite, logically that was what to do: to comply with the laws. That in a legislative chamber you're talking about fulfilling the laws seems to be the top of the hives. But no, you guys, when they had to make the transposition, right, to the autonomic order of the LOE they did all the normal, and then they weren't the issues that were said today, were they not? She was neither usurper nor invaders nor centralizer; no, no, she was a normal, ordinary, democratic law, passed in a national parliament just like today, and here we pass it to our own. Ladies and gentlemen, the group model – you said – of rural education. Grouping model, which would you rather?, ours or yours, what did you support?, which would you prefer? We clearly prefer ours, because how many units...? Look, the last year of two-party government, twenty-eight of you closed; last year six. The barrier to closing one unit or grouping it with another, less than nine students, with you less than nine students, with us less than six. I mean, much more flexible. It's over, Mr. President. Mr. Vázquez, I will not discuss anything here about stigmatization of children in the dining rooms, of course not, and absolute respect to the mayor of Santiago, absolute. Now, we have to go through the session papers, and on June 11 you had an intervention here where I was talking about this. Besides, Mr. Ron, you took him to the election program, so you can't accuse me here of saying anything that doesn't fit. What if I remind you again is that I also remember the session in which the then spokesperson, spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group had to endure those of God is fair, isn't it? So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u156	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Shuttle tower, Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Churches, you tried to make a mistake about the terminology you used here for kidnappings, at no time did you talk about bishops, you talked about teachers who go to public centers; that's what you called "sequences." He tried to amend it in his second intervention, but in any case I think you called the professors of Religion sequelae, and I think – I suppose – it's not a qualification that no professional deserves. Mr. Pombo, rural education, the spokesperson said so. I only give one data: the bipartisan, Government PSOE-Bloque, a unit with six students closed; currently a unit with six students open. From there, literature you want, but these are real data. I've been lucky enough to visit a lot of educational centers in these months, and I've talked to many, with a lot of teachers, and obviously there are problems, there are specific issues that need to be resolved, there are always problems in educational centers. Now, what I see is a lot of normality, and I see a lot of desire to do things, and I also see a lot of support from the professor for educational projects driven by the Government of Galicia, such as the Abalar, the program contracts, the multilingualism, a lot of support, and I see a lot of involvement. I don't see any preconditions, no, I see the teacher's involvement. With which, you're deliberately trying to exaggerate, but I think they're a bit overexaggerating. As you exaggerate, Mr. Pombo, when he says that only a minority of children and families have economic help to receive the books. That minority you say is 70%, that minority you say is 70% of the children and children and families in this country. The remaining 30%, which fortunately have enough resources to buy books, is logical to buy them. We'll agree on that, won't we? Will we agree on that? That minority, in your opinion, of 70% are those families that will be in the solidarity funds of book banks, which are public bookstores, and will receive books, not only those that are helped to buy with the support of the Administration, but those that families voluntarily wish to deposit. And there's an important conceptual error. Here's a very important conceptual error. [[Applause]] Look, families don't give the books to Junta, families don't give their books to the Administration; families give their books to children and girls who need it most. That's their conceptual mistake, which they think books go to Join; no, no, no, they go to a solidarity fund, to a public bank of textbooks, and from there they are redistributed to families who need it most. I think that's an important conceptual error. Just like it's an important conceptual error that was said by all spokesmen regarding the contents of books. And they tell us, the LOE books and the LOMCE books are not compatible. You guys, did one of you check the contents of some LOE and LOMCE books? I have a few books here, apart from a subject that is theoretically complex, because it's fragmented. But I've got middle-third grade knowledge, LOE's books, and I've got LOMCE's natural and social books. If you reviewed the contents of these books, you would realize that about 90% of the contents are the same. Why? Because LOMCE does not bring about a change in content, it proposes a change in methodology, a change in the way teachers learn. And the books, you here also defend him, are a pedagogical tool. And there are teachers, I'm sure you applaud, who give classes without books, right? who use their own materials, who organize their own materials with digital content. You agree, don't you? Or even they do educational projects through transversal content. But, well, you're going to go check out the books of LOEE and LOMCE and look for those gross differences that they pose. And indeed, Mr Vázquez, the political issue is complicated. It's complicated, and it's complicated everywhere. Maybe we have intellectual pride or short-sighted pride to think that what comes up doesn't go down. The tides go up and down, don't they? That's obvious. Even sometimes we're also seeing some parties pull out their uniforms, leave their acronyms, some are trying to get back from where they came from. I mean, things are complicated, things are complicated and it goes through a lot of neighborhoods, and they're not so proud because what always goes down, eh! What always goes down, and there's a lot of games that are now talking about changing their names. [[Applause]] I think you're from Left Unity, which now says you leave your name parked, that you want to integrate... well, you'll see, I'm not going to tell you anything, but you're already kids fortunately. Now, what I think is frankly questionable is that you criticize basic vocational training; frankly questionable, because you've shown that you don't know it. You said you didn't give titles and you didn't give educational output. You should know that those students who after two years of basic vocational training will have a degree. And I should also know that it's a bridge course to enter the middle grade or to enter the ESO. I think that you should know, because to say that students who go to basic vocational training go to a dead end itinerary is frankly a lie, without going any further. And I would like – I don't know if you did – to visit some basic vocational training group, to see what they are doing, to see their work and to see also the problems of learning and integration in many of these basic vocational training groups. And then you talk to him and then you question him; then you question him, you criticize him. But don't come here to say that basic vocational training is not an educational platform of great interest to those students with more educational difficulties, for many reasons. It's just that if you're doing a great job in the educational centers with these students, with groups that are working from a professional point of view with very high level and with many students, that maybe if you don't go through this education branch, they're going straight to school failure, and in this way they're going to continue on an official course, they're going to have an official degree and they can jump to other educational lines. So I think you should be a little more careful there, because if you don't have it, you'll see what happens to you in the school dining rooms, where you don't seem to remember what we voted for last year, that we said that the education administration would make its facilities available to the municipal social services if needed. Luckily, or not fortunately, I don't know, I don't know, that's what everyone likes, you're doing what they've been asking a lot of questions. So when you tell yourself what basic vocational training is, they'll do as they do: well, we were just going through here. [[Murmurs.]] We're already used to that line of political action, but surely that line of political action ultimately means a loss of credibility. And that would apply to Mr Docasar. Because the Socialist Party, its representative, will come to us here to question the time to process the current decree of ESO more of a bac when the Socialist Party during the two-party government in 2008 launched LOE and published in September, order, Mrs. Soneira, rain in Havana! Send rain to Havana that you come here to tell us that, when your memory had a little bit I don't know whether to say "please" you would realize that this has no weight, because you did it or approved it in September. [[Laughter]] And look, you've also talked about precarious public office. The Socialist Party has plenty, eh! Quite a lot, eh! [[Laughter]] We least, we have less precarious. Some of us have, but the Socialist Party can assume that it is precarious in many institutions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I wanted to go and finish and I wanted to suggest that in politics, obviously, discrepancy is positive. It's positive because it's possible that we sometimes get wrong or you're also wrong, it's possible, it's possible, and surely it will be. But what I haven't just met is the constant criticism on the left, in general, of any educational initiative on the part of the People's Party. It gives me the feeling that you really believe that they have the absolute monopoly of education and that their educational model is good. I see them very reluctant to change, I see them very immobility, I see them conservative, they reject absolutely any improvement initiative, any educational innovation. They are trapped in this partisan dogmatism that I told them earlier, which prevents them from seeing beyond – let's say – their partyist vision. Because, of course, after they fall off the horse, and after a year, she says, "Oh, well, this wasn't so bad! It was good, we have to ask for more or we have to apply it ourselves. That's what you're suggesting, that's why I'm talking about that dogmaticism that led them to say that a law has to be repealed when it wasn't even presented the preliminary draft. I mean, if you're looking for dogma, you'll have to see how we're capable or how a political formation is capable of saying that you're going to override a law when you didn't even know it. Why? Because ours is the good one and that of the People's Party in this case is the suitcase. In any case, we say it and we insist: we are setting up an educational model that bets on two pillars, which surely we share – say – both aspects of the political arc: more educational quality. We demonstrate it. The indicators of educational results have improved in recent years, notably, the PISA report. Another thing is that the PISA report is useless, as I've heard from some spokesman of this House. Well, if it's not for nothing, if it's neoliberal, etc., it's not for nothing. But if we pay attention to this indicator or these indicators that give us a comparative view, because I think we've improved there. And we've also improved in equity. The drop in school has been markedly reduced. There are plans for itineraries, educational itineraries for those students who need it the most and educational itineraries that allow students to be trained on the basis of their attitudes and according to their demands. And that's very positive. And we're also betting on a redistributive justice of resources, so that those families who can provide food, books, an economic amount to complementary services will do so, and those who don't, in books 70%, in food 80%, receive and are completely free users. For us this is redistributive justice; you prefer coffee for everyone, it's your coffee policy for everyone. We asked for a redistributive policy based on the level of income and access to services based on income. In any case, – as we have already said – you've been announcing that LOMCE will be hijacked, they've announced it before it's a written line. It's a respectable dogmatism and ideological positioning, although obviously we don't share it. But I would like, to finish by saying that the implementation of an organic law is required, and we are doing it in time and form, as is the case, with the curricula of ESO and bac. Long before, by the way, what was done in other governments. And we have been who, despite what you often say, of incorporating constructive approaches that have been made, of many constructive approaches; without going further to the sectoral table, increasing the hours of Philosophy. We have done so, we have the capacity to be able to dialogue and accept criticism and improve the document, for others the only criticism is to kill the law. Well, we disagree. In any case, and to conclude, to say that the ESO and Bachelor's Decree will be raised to the Council of June 25, so that the centres, families, students and students, the educational community as a whole, can be enrolled without any problems and having on the table the rules that will govern the next academic courses in these areas. I think it's a job that was done in a responsible way, where the Educational Administration, the public officials were strongly involved, where they were given access by participatory consultation bodies. And I think that ultimately shows that there is a serious work and hard work behind this whole process, especially when we compare it to other times. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u158	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to point 4 of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation of the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u159	Two amendments were tabled to this motion: one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u160	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u161	Good afternoon. Everything goes down. We've managed to get the People's Party to talk more about tides than we do. They're worried about tides all day long. And of course everything that goes down has now touched the People's Party to be down in the last elections, even in the autonomics, and the tides are rising, and the tides are coming down. But you know what's going on? That you're from Lalín, I lived in Sada all my life, that when the tide goes down then the beach doesn't look the same, it gets cleaned normally and the beach stays different than before. And that's what-- that's what's going to happen to the tides. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For example, the secularity of the institutions, etc., will no longer be the same; they have dared to do what other political representatives should have done before. And that will set a precedent, and then nothing will be the same again in the tides. We don't get involved in flags or acronyms because it's not our goal. They're means, not end in themselves. So we choose at every moment the most necessary instruments to respond to what citizenship demands. And what citizenship asked us to do is to join us to end the policies that are impoverishing them. And on the other hand, it's not a good way to think about the People's Party if you're passively waiting for the tide to descend, because the tide didn't go up either for a determinism, but it went up because you did things wrong. And I'm going to talk about milk, which is about time. I make today a motion derived from the Interpellation on the milk sector of the previous plenary, with a series of concrete proposals which in turn derive from the identification and problems of this sector that we are currently at a time when the owners have been charging milk for months under the costs of production, where there is still, despite some triumphalist voices, ensuring that milk is collected to all the owners, where there is still a imbalance in the value chain, where both price and other conditions continue to be imposed on the owners, where practices for selling or selling milk as a claim product continue to be unimpacted, where land mobility policies, etc. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We believe that this situation largely stems from the inability of the Galician and People's Party Government to solve the structural problems of the dairy sector which erode its competitiveness at the end of the quota system and, moreover, from a lack of strategic policy in the medium and long term. The lack of strategic policy that keeps the mechanisms from being put in place long enough to allow when the quotas are finished, which was already announced their end in 2015 for years now, because the yellow gloves had less disadvantages than they have today. I'm going to read a report that ICAM scientists made in Mabegondo in 2009. That research center that has been reduced to 36% of investigators, but that has people who know about it, even if the board doesn't listen. In 2009, this group of experts said: "It is always difficult to make predictions for the future. However, if we can safely move forward some changes and adventure others. We know that the quota system will be abandoned in 2015, we can predict an increase in the international milk market, the increase in oil and the hardening of environmental standards and restrictions. The abolition of the quota system can lead to a regional redistribution of milk production to more competitive areas, either due to the proximity of major consumption centres, to the strength of its industrial sector or to its own natural resources. Galicia cannot compete for its geographic situation or its transformation industry, but it could increase its milk production based on its capacity for producing forage. For that, it would be necessary to value, for milk production, the useful agricultural area abandoned in recent years. Enhancing pensions will not penalise both the milk sector and other sectors because, as we have seen, – sorry, electricity – if you invest in increasing the capacity to store purin, you can minimize the dependence on mineral fertilizers. However, in the face of the rise of the concentrates, the Greek farms – more consumer of concentrates than Europeans – are in a worse situation than those of our northern European neighbours. Expectably, the Greek farms will be forced to acquire area on the market of expensive and untransparent land. That was said in 2009. I was also talking about this report on what should be done in industrial policy, which should be more selective and less generalist. There was no such strategic plan for the dairy sector that Mr. Juárez announced, there was no medium- and long-term policy and therefore they still do not solve the structural problems. We propose that there be a dialogue table, we call it whatever you want, where the industry, the distribution, the producers and the Galician Union feel, a framework for dialogue in Galicia. I don't know if the People's Party is able to sit on a table all these agents, but it's urgent. Since they're always saying that the dairy sector has to go together, that they feel immediately to solve the problems in Galicia. Let a strict distribution control plan be implemented. He compared the Director General of Commerce and gave us the poor data of the Joint activity as regards the control of distribution, which is fundamental because the prices of the distribution press down and we know that the same practices in other autonomous communities, where there are sanctions for distribution, or the same practices in Portugal, which imposed sanctions for two and a half million euros in 2014, in Galicia zero euros of sanctions for distribution. Intensification of control over the contracts that industry is offering, which is imposing on the livestock industry. Just as trade unions report illegal contracts, the Galician Union should be acting and pressuring industry not to do so. Financial measures to support a post-côte scenario. One of the disadvantages of the German gandlers with regard to Europeans in this scenario after their quotas is that they have a greater debt, especially because of their efforts in technology and in the purchase of quota. Therefore, a specific financial support policy. In industrial policy we would like to know if there was this strategic sectoral plan that was included in the Galician Industry Act that was going to be done on the dairy sector. You have to have a clear idea of what you want to do about the industrial transformation of milk in this country, you can't go blind and give money to anyone who comes with a project, you have to have an idea of what you want and the Galician Union, which we know, no. In Europe, apart from the Spanish State, European countries invested between 2012 and 2014 5,330 million in industrial projects and this is no accident. All European countries have made an effort to strengthen their agri-food industry in view of this post-quota scenario. EUR 5.330 million. Can I sing in Galicia? Well, that's a lot less. And finally, the problem of land too. Once that wonderful Law of Improvement of Galicia's Agrarian Structure has been adopted, which is a plan where resources and objectives have been made to achieve this mobilization of land, which is a matter that depends only on the political will of the Greek Government. 50% of the production costs of the Greek farms are due to the purchase of food outside the farm, thought and fodder. We have a very wide margin to reduce the cost of production. Then, with regard to the value chain, the political failures of the People's Party when it defines as an objective that no abuse of a dominant position would result in a rethinking of these policies. Administration cannot have the passive role that is currently being played, it has to have an active monitoring role that regulations are complied with throughout the value chain. It has to have an active role that is not currently being played, an active role that has other European countries, an active role as has, for example, the French administration that sits every two by three all elements of the food chain and there also governs the laws of European competition that govern Galicia and is not inconvenient to feel, dialogue and reach agreements. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u162	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u163	Good afternoon to all and to all. It is essential, as I have said before, to support the dairy sector because the situation is far from getting better and worse. Dirty contracts as a result of the law of the jungle that the Union allows without intervening. It has already been made a thousandfold manifest by all opposition groups and the representatives of the sector the especially difficult moment in which the milk sector is living as a result of the disappearance of quotas. I have already insisted that the disappearance of quotas is also an opportunity if Galicia is able to take advantage of the comparative advantages of producing better quality milk. AGE's spokesman already said: the Greek land is a land with great potential for the production of high-quality fodder. Support for the creation or recovery of family dairy farms should be a priority. But the dairy sector and farmers and farmers are not the only ones who suffer the consequences of the disastrous agricultural policies, is Galicia the whole one affected by the waiver of food sovereignty, which is nothing other than the production of food of sufficient quality, which has to be a strategic line of the next Greek government – which surely, I hope, you will not be – not only by the obligation to put quality food at the disposal of consumers, by restoring agriculture, but also by maintaining the ecological balance that the primary sector has in the raw internal product. Support for the budgeted milk sector is needed to alleviate the negative effects that existing holdings will have to address in this first year of the disappearance of the milk quota system. It is necessary to support the dairy sector and take advantage of the opportunity to increase family farms through the recovery or creation of new dairy farms. A constant demand from the producer sector is the need to establish a framework for the relationship between producers and dairy companies with the minimum stability that enables planning in production and industry and the economic survival of both. They only claim to end or diminish the effects of the jungle law that will deny the relations between production, industry and marketing that has always had peasants and peasants as victims. The oligopolistic practices of companies are sanctioned by a fine of 80 million euros for an illegal profit ten times higher. Besides, if the law of the jungle doesn't remedy it, predators won't have any difficulty getting them to pay their 80 million in a short time. From the milk package we've talked about, too. Royal Decree 125/2015 of 27 February confirmed that producers would not be protected at all and that is what is happening. And the German Government, submitted – as always – in front of the powerful, is fond of the imposition of industry and distribution. Either there is public intervention to protect the weakest or passivity will lead to ruin most of the Greek dairy sector. It's no use to the counselor's good words by telling him over and over again that he's going to talk to or spoke to the companies, to the distribution and to the moneywinners and the moneywinners. The counselor doesn't have to go to talk, he has to go to listen because what the Greek Government doesn't do is listen, they always come to tell the recipe to get the others to accept themselves or themselves, but they refuse to listen to what the real concerns and claims of the Greeks and the Greeks are. We need a public intervention that frees the irresponsible greed of the industries that either do not want to make contracts or offer prices to the owners who know they're under the cost of production. We must govern, govern and implement policies that respond to the interests of the social majority. And now Galicia's interests demand a government that is on the side of the gorges and the gorges and not on the side of the distribution and industry that crushes them. That's why we need to demand the end of the administration's complicity with industry and distribution. I therefore announce my support for this motion even though I have submitted a request for addition to promote agriculture and ecological farming as well as the protection of the land of transgenics and phytotoxic products in the use of agriculture. Nothing else. I will support the motion regardless of whether or not the amendment is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that like all of us here, we hope that the debates we have raised in this House will be useful to society, in this case for dairy producers and the whole of the rural population whose economy and social dynamism depend to a large extent on the vitality of the permanence of this economic sector, I will propose to return to the debate. Because, frankly, I believe that in relation to the dairy sector, the debates we have systematically been having in this House for many months, presenting different, varied and varied initiatives on the part of the opposition groups, – some of the minimums, the most impossible, other mediums, the other maximums, others that go to the bottom, others that simply intend to resolve issues in the immediate plane –... I propose to the honourable Members and honourable Members that we turn the debate back and that we employ Mrs García Pacín to whom she leaves here and tell us whether the People's Party and the Galician Union are willing to do something about the dairy sector at once or if we continue to let the sector die and with him who also dies. Because, of course, here as we're so used to visualizing the debates only about what happens in Madrid and the rest of Spain, we're all very aware of the people who throw away their homes, it's normal for us to be. But we're not aware of anything about the people who throw away their exploits and their lands because they can't afford the debts they have incurred with banking entities, and we're not even aware of people who take their lives away because they can't cope with the debts they have contracted with banking entities, as bank entities come to deny them advances based on the aid of the CAP that they already have recognized. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you think of a holy time doing something about the dairy sector? Yes or no? Or are you going to allow the milk prices to end up being, as they are already on many occasions but in a generalized manner, under the 20 cents that you're sensing a lot of gloves and geese? Or are you going to continue to allow that blackmail and extortion that means first buyers, that industries unilaterally mark how much they have the right to produce each glove and how much not under the threat of not collecting milk a day, a week, or the next month? What have you thought of doing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in connection with a first buyer who threatens to stop collecting huge amounts of milk throughout the 10th and Tabierós district from July 1st? Did you plan on doing something about that? Or what did you plan to do with Capsa, which threatens the owners even if they didn't let them produce 5% more than they produced last year's admissibility that sets out the decree that regulates this situation? Have you thought about letting them camp on their broads? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we from the Galician Nationalist Block are going to support this initiative, which, Mr Sánchez, we could say is one of the strict ones, the ones that bring solutions both to the immediate plan and to resolve matters more quietly. That's why we also consider that the amendment tabled by the Joint Group is very commendable, and that's why we also tabled an amendment which aims to deal with a very immediate situation and is that more and more farm spending is, income is less and above these useless members of the Galician Union, and they are not even able to guarantee the netizens that they will charge the 2015 CAP aid during 2015. And that's why we tabled an amendment to deal with a situation, with a very specific continuance, but that in the case of farms may become extremely serious because of their situation. I insist that the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative, as will the small, medium and large groups that we have brought forward in relation to the dairy sector. But I want to get the People's Group to tell us once whether they're planning on doing something or they're going to let the sector die. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u167	Thank you, President. Mrs. Peace, "the German Government has always been, is and will be next to the dairy sector." We haven't left this sentence in the last four years. We told the counselor the other day, I called it indecent in that sense; that is, we are, perhaps, in the face of the crisis – not only for price level but for the added difficulties and the new scenario – more serious than the last 30 years. I repeat, there were lower prices, but there were lower difficulties, but the scenario was different: we had a tool, which were quotas, which we knew would be transient. Today we have nothing clear that this is transient. And yet, the counselor after these six months comes here always with a prefabricated, pre-written and repetitive speech, under all points of view totally apathetic in the sense that she says nothing and with sentences made. We told him, moreover, – and Mr. Sánchez listed it here today – that it was a totally predictable crisis; that is, all this happening was easy, it was likely, it was safe to pass and everyone who knew a little about it said so. We told him that throughout this time Galicia has not been able to lead this sector despite the volume of livestock and the volume of milk we represent and what this sector means in this country and that we should therefore lead. So today, we're in the situation, in view of that market liberalisation which, in theory, was to produce more because the world stage would need more milk and therefore it didn't make sense that we were bound by the quota system -- that was the philosophy of the model -- well, before that liberalisation that was to produce more, effectively today, the Greek farms are charging 20 cents, 20 cents, and 80% of the milk they produced last year. I mean, not only can they grow but they haven't guaranteed the sale of the same amount of milk they produced last year or, at least, they haven't guaranteed their sale at a unit price – and we speak of 20 cents, we don't speak of 30 or 40–. That's the situation. And before that, the Greek Government has absolutely nothing to say except the phrases made of as long as I've already told the counselor – not for us, that I respect it by discount, but if someone hears out there – that he should change. We were talking in addition to the bad management. And this is an opinion of course, as always, but what we need is the counterreplication of that opinion and it's the initiative, it's that they propose things and they tell us something they can do. I too, as Mrs Paz, the Socialist Group adheres to any proposal that brings this government with regard to the dairy sector, we already like it more or less, but that brings something. We've been here for three years and I peak without a single proposal for the dairy sector. The bad management of the CAP in the distribution, the bad management in the decree of the milk package, the bad management in the dairy food, the bad management in the last year of the payment of the surcharge – which the yellow beekeepers have already paid the extra fee that they rented, that they have already paid, they already have paid for it. And this is known and known throughout the sector, by all agents, by all gainors, except by the advisor himself and the members of the People's Party. But this is all the demagogy of the opposition and that we are evil. The reality: today we have the lowest prices in Europe, as I said before, we haven't guaranteed the marketing of what we produced last year – i.e. we're not thinking about how we're going to grow – and Galicia in April has lowered its production by 7%. This production has increased in other autonomous communities which, logically, are growing to the detriment of Galicia and the Government – I repeat – without a proposal, without an analysis of the situation. What did he do wrong? If something had to be done, or the conclusion is that nothing must be done at all? Tell us, too. They also tell us if the conclusion is that, that nothing must be done at all. I was saying we were wrong because the scene is different. There were actually always oscillations and this was a variable market and therefore there were higher prices and lower prices, but before we had a system that was actually going to protect us. But don't be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today, when there's again a shortage, which no doubt in the medium term there will be, we won't cover it, we won't have the guarantee because we were shielded by the quota system. There are other countries that will take that increase in production and, therefore, will not come the pure and hard market to fix it with this system based on that quota system, no longer exists and therefore it will be produced. And that was also what the European Union was saying, that we had to foresee a relocation of production both between states and within the state itself, and this is what is happening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u169	And you're unaware or looking somewhere else. Indeed, Mrs Pacín, I repeat that the People's Party, by appealing that the Counsellor does not bring any proposals, that she proposes something to us, that she brings here... and I promise – I repeat – all benevolence and accept almost anything. What we can't tell the sector, from our point of view, is that we've been with a government for six months that doesn't talk about this. At the worst moment in the history of the sector of the last thirty years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u171	...–I repeat, not only for the prices but for the stage–, the German Government says absolutely nothing about this subject, it is inhibited and expects the time to pass. I believe that, unfortunately for the gainees, the time alone will not pass and, at least, it needs a certain skill and political attitude that this government does not have at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u172	Thank you, Mr. García. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Sánchez, instead of tides, I think it's more appropriate to talk about floods, especially river floods, because the PP has flooded Galicia at its own time and now others take advantage of the fertile land. But remember that the floods are cyclical, they always come back, and PP always comes back when you need to fertilize what others let down. [[Applause]] In the previous debate, you were asked for very specific measures, actions or proposals to define the alternative of your training. They are materialized, as you said, in six agreements: in the forum of dialogue, in control, inspection and penalties for distribution, in control of contracts, in budgetary measures, in a specific plan of transformation, in a specific land mobility plan and surely – here you have not announced it but I have already announced it – there will be a 7 and a 7bis that will be the amendments where first refers to greening and payments of the CAP aid and also to the ecological production of milk. Well, ladies and gentlemen, all the proposals they put forward for us are not new, they are already being implemented, they have been implemented by the current Government, by the Council of the Environment and the Sea, and some in close collaboration and coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm going to try to repeat myself again, though I know my words don't convince them. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand that you speak of an emergency plan, we understand that there is a need for prompt action on specific issues in new scenarios, which others have not done when they have occasion and responsibility for government, Mr. García. And I mean to you when this quota scenario without quotas was predictable, but they weren't able to articulate specific measures when they had the opportunity and now demand political responsibility. First, a permanent dialogue forum. The forum they demand, ladies and gentlemen, and let's repeat again, is a Welsh interprofessional or a milk table. In previous debates it has already been refused. There is an interprofessional national level where Galicia has the leadership and where distribution is lacking, and even the Rural Council, at the mouth of its general director, in Europe in January of this year and in all forums where it is needed, makes the same demand over and over again: the distribution must be incorporated into interprofessional at the national level. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But besides, ladies and gentlemen, we reject that point because in Galicia there already exists, by virtue of a nationalist decree, the Observatory of the Milky Sector of Galicia where they are represented, where all the jail floors are involved, all the floors of the sector. Let's remember that the vowels are three representatives of the council with powers, one representative of each of the agricultural professional organisations represented at the Galego Agrarian Council, one representative of the Galician Agricultural Cooperatives Association and three representatives of the Galician Dairy Companies Association. Let us also remember that this observatory can create working groups for the study of specific topics of interest to the sector. But let us also remember that it is customary for the council to meet with all the agents – representatives of production, representatives of industry... – as it is their duty, as it always tries to achieve negotiations and fruitful agreements for all. Ladies and gentlemen, at point two you speak of distribution control. You know, because in committee it was said, that the council in coordination with the Directorate-General for Trade... was given the data of the inspections carried out, of the sanctioning files transferred to those responsible, of the actions of other Greek bodies such as the Galician Competition Council. There are inspections, controls are usual, and they translate into sanctions. Questions you ignore, they look down on you. Point three, control measures for contracts. You know that checks are routinely made. On 16 April, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the communities approved a national plan – the third, ladies and gentlemen, the third – to monitor contracts. Point four, specific measures to support the milk sector with budgets, prioritizing financial instruments. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, in the new RDP in coherence and continuation of a RDP designed by nationalist policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u175	...they are able to articulate measures where the dairy sector can take advantage of them: incorporation of young people, technification of farms and improvement of them. You know there's direct help from the first pier. Really all the issues that you specify here and demand... develop a specific plan for a transformation project. You were talking about figures at European level of five thousand and peak million, in Galicia there were 138 projects with more than 28 million. I understand you don't want to see reality, but reality is teimuda, data, figures. And, Mrs. Peace, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u177	...can laugh, but in the bipartisan they also shut down exploits and are they responsible for the best policies of the PP of their policies that were also harmful? It's really easy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u178	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u179	...to use demagogy when it is appropriate and not to support the sector, which is what is necessary, what the representatives of the people should send and do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u180	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u181	Well, I suppose there are things of the last points that remained for Mrs. Garcia Pacín, for lack of time, not to say, but good. He was talking about an interprofessional at the national level, at the state level, where Galicia is leading. Well, if Galicia leads that interprofessional, and it turns out that Galicians perceive the lowest prices of the whole state with a lot of difference, for much of it does not serve that leader. They're working against Galicia, then? Are they working against the country? Because that's the reality. They led the interprofessional and it turns out that there is a specific reality of Galicia, specific, which has nothing to do with Andalusia or with Castile, which we have 40% of the production and the lowest prices of the entire state; with difference even if we pass the Eo River there. Specific of Galicia. Ten years ago there was also work to improve the dairy sector, of course, but the difference is that it worked and now it's not, it doesn't work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then something happens to that leader. I don't know if the advisor meets with all the sectors, now well, sitting at a table together doesn't do it, and we think it's necessary, and the production sector believes it's necessary to talk face to face with distribution and industry, and administration playing an active role. That is the only way that legislation is applied and that the abuse of the producer sector by some parties is prevented. Because if you're telling me that everything's fine in the dairy sector, the diagnosis already fails; it's not that the measures are failing, it's because the diagnosis is lacking. So, without an active role of the Administration, which at the moment does not have, you cannot end that abuse of the domain position. Because, look, I did ask the general trade director the question and he did give me the data: zero euros for sanctions and for sale to losses, zero euros! When there are other autonomous communities, with less milk production, which have already imposed sanctions. I'm looking for euros! And he started doing something in 2015. And then, of course, you say it's all done. Yes, everything is done; land mobility is done; everything I propose is done. It's not done, there's no plan for mobilising land with allocated resources, human resources and technical resources. There's no industrial strategic plan, because you talked about 28 million, the aid and subsidies we all know, but that doesn't mean having a plan to solve the whole sector, plan of what they lack. The only thing they did, which could be considered strategic in the sector, was Milk Food, and you look at what it was. What are they doing now in the industrial field? What are they doing now? It doesn't make me laugh because it's pretty sad what you guys did, it's pretty sad the lack of ideas and political will that they have to transform this country. Sad enough that this Government has a total lack of policies in the medium and long term for the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u182	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u183	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u184	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the fulfilment of the protocols of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u185	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Glaga Alternative of the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u186	For the defense of the motion, Mrs. Acuña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, after Mr. Rueda's illustration of the tragic murder of Verín's woman, today we are going to debate the proposals of our motion. Proposals that we consider necessary, which we consider to be absumable and which we consider, of course, very useful. So, no doubt, a parliamentary group so little machist, so little reactionary and so little conservative as the People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support them with great enthusiasm. Proposals that such a government as little macho, so little reactionary and as little conservative as Mr. Feijóo's government, will undoubtedly apply them with great diligence and immediacy. And proposals that a counselor like Mr. Rueda, so little machist, so little reactionary and so little conservative, no doubt, will assume them as their own. The truth is, after hearing the inquiry, it became very clear that the vice president is so interested in understanding and explaining what could fail in Verín as we can. So with the joy and passion that characterizes it, with such a dialogueative attitude, so understanding, so conciliatory that you use the vice president always with everything related to gender violence, you will certainly accept our proposals. By the way, the women of Greece should thank Mr. Rueda for all these explanations given about the functioning of the different protocols, both in the field of justice and in the field of health and the State Security Corps. And, of course, of the changes and measures that he immediately took to correct the failures of these protocols and that never in our autonomous community would repeat a case as tragic as that of the woman in Verín. Explanations that were also wonderfully complimented by the Popular Voicer. By the way, voicer who is not the usual, is not the voicer of Equality in this group. I have to say that I, at first, thought badly that it was Mrs Prado who intervened, I thought it was a partisan strategy to cover up and protect the vice president, very weakened by the events, but, after listening to Mrs Prado, I immediately understood that the reason for his participation in the debate was nothing but to use his unparalleled experience on this subject. Without a doubt, only she could have given such concrete and enlightening data about what happened in Verín and what we have to do to prevent it from happening again. I just want to think about it, ladies and gentlemen. If this honourable Member talks to them, after more than 20 years of working, exercising, in the Welsh public health, if he had never seen or treated a case of gender-based violence, it would undoubtedly be, ladies and gentlemen, that something was doing wrong. I'm sure he didn't act or look in condition. But, ironies aside, what became quite clear to us is that Mr. Rueda merely defended himself by attacking; and, by the way, protecting the performance of justice – he will know why – with the careful excuse of the secret of summary. While citizenship is now alarmed and scandalized – yes, ladies of the right-hand side – you see the prosecutor's office justifying legal criteria such as the Verín court in which the case is instituted; that is, the same judge who, it seems, did not consider it necessary to protect the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, aren't you wondering what people might be thinking? Aren't you wondering what the victims might be feeling? I think you should ask yourself this. Perhaps the Prosecutor's Office believes that this decision will be well understood by society? Because if that's the case, the prosecutor's office is very far from reality, she's blind or she just wants to look aside. By the way, since the Prosecutor's office and Mr. Rueda seem to have such a fluid dialogue for other things, they should also speak of this case of gender-based violence, in order to advise him not to act with legal criteria, but also with criteria of social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to put the hypocrisy aside and admit what the street says openly. And what the street says openly is that the People's Party understands justice very well. And not only does he say it, but he thinks it. Unfortunately, the citizenry distrusts Justice, something tremendously harmful to a country and something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have fostered in your attitude. Of course, in passing, another public service deteriorates. While judges, prosecutors and counsellor of Justice protect themselves with secrets of summary, with hidden summaries or with magistrates appointed to and by the People's Party, the people withdraw their confidence and respect for all of them. The Socialists today propose exactly the opposite, opening doors, opening windows, and also urgently. Let an internal investigation be conducted in the Council of Justice and in the Council of Health to know clearly and with all transparency that has failed, because of course, ladies, that in the case of Isabel something has failed. What failed, who was responsible for that failure, and, above all, how we can prevent it from happening again in the future. And you will not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the PP votes against this proposal. We also propose that budgets for equality be recovered at the level of the year 2009. For, although Mr. Rueda claimed that the budget has increased, it is not true. In 2009 the budgetary share for Equality was more than 60 million; in 2015 – with Feijóo and Rueda in the Government – is only 12 million. That difference from 60 million in 2009 to only 15 of 2010, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tried to justify it by changing places in the matches. But it turns out that between 2010 and 2015, where there was no change in shares, budgets for Equality continued to decline from 15 to 12 million. In other words, despite having withdrawn the budget for Equality 47 million – if we compare what was intended for the year 2009 with what was destined for 2010 – or withdrawing 3 million – if we compare it to 2010 to 2015 – Mr. Rueda here made sure that he had increased. Without going further, this same year 2015 the match for actions of equality, protection and promotion of women – that is to say, to prevent gender-based violence – has declined again from 6,200,000 euros to just 5,800,000. As for our third proposal, we asked for a detailed study, from the Autonomic Administration, of each of the cases of women victims of gender-based violence who were killed after having made the complaint, whether it contains or does not contain an order of protection. I propose that this is not the first time we have brought this House and that it has already been rejected by the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to know why. But, anyway, here's a second chance to repair the damage done, I hope you're more committed to eradicating gender-based violence and not acting like Mr. Rueda, who wasted the second opportunity that the socialists offered you to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not irresponsible to mention in this House that women die after they have denounced, what is irresponsibility unforgivable is that a government that knows that this is so, denies it; that it refuses to do anything about it and that, in any case little, demonizes the opposition because it asks for explanations and, above all, requires solutions. We are not the opposition groups who discourage the victims to whom they report, which discourages the victims from knowing and checking too often that the complaint is not the solution they expect and that they kill women even after they have denounced, and that, ladies and gentlemen, cannot and should not continue to occur. If we really want to end violence, it would have to be the Government first to seek with all clarity and depth where the failure is. And, of course, that the prosecutor's office decides he's the Verín judge and, therefore, the same judge who's involved in the case where he conducts the instruction, doesn't help anything. But it would also not help anything that the People's Party, the majority group, had voted against this motion. For now, nothing more and thank you very much. We hope to have the support of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u189	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We have come to the debate on this motion after an interpellation in which, indeed, we have made little progress in clarifying the facts that have led both to this interpellation and to the different questions. That's why the first point on this motion has been raised since we're going to support it from the Galician Nationalist Block, because we think that in the Vice-Presidentship itself it is certain that some kind of internal investigation has already been opened. I don't think the vice president or that a government at least responsible hadn't done an internal investigation to get to know what the mechanisms are, what the put into operation of the law. I'm convinced they won't want to make it public, but it's impossible they don't have any kind of research about it. Second. As far as budgets are concerned, we are not going to debate the figures again. We know there's a reduction, each budget presentation is analysed. The General Secretariat of Equality itself is currently under Segai's budgets, which was the only body that existed in 2005. An inflow not only of budget, but of women's visibility. All we have to do is tune the Galician radio and listen to the opinionors, "the," in general, current opinion. That's a sample of women's visibility. And the third one. Once again, we are debating the Socialist Group's proposal, in fact, about a detailed study that takes place since the autonomous administration of women's cases, victims of gender-based violence, which have been killed. I want to remember, and that's why we introduced an amendment that can be obvious, that is whether it is being complied with or developed by the Greek Law for the Prevention and Treatment of Gender Violence, that in the Law itself it is already collected, in article 12, that it is mandatory to potentiate research on gender violence. But it's true that in recent years research calls have been eliminated not only about gender-based violence, but also about equality, and this has been said by the directors of the universities' equality units themselves. This is indeed a problem, because it was collected in the law itself – it is recalled, which is in force – "The Galician Union, through the department competent in the field of equality, in collaboration with the other departments of the Autonomic Administration, will enhance the research into the causes and consequences of gender violence, as well as the means necessary to avoid it, the degree of awareness of society before it and the means necessary for its treatment." And follow the rest of the article. I, you know, the only research that has been done in the last three years in this legislation is the survey on the perception of gender violence in Galicia in 2012, which was published in early 2013, which seemed to us an important initiative because it gave at least a vision of how gender violence was perceived. We ask the Government once we have the conclusions, which are based primarily on greater protection and prevention, and I read textually: "the importance of equal education from school and the involvement of the family in complaints." That's what appears to be the performances the Government was going to do. For the answer was at that time that "The VI Equality Plan is an effort to offer a comprehensive and powerful response to this social scourge, in any of its modalities and consequences, through prevention actions and comprehensive and coordinated assistance to women victims and their dependants." They realize that they always repeat the same thing and there is no realization of what new programs are being done, what new actions are being done? Of course, we will support that study, but simply by complying with the law, the three questions raised here would be asked. One question. Today we are listening carefully to the debate on education. What new developments exist on the path of co-education? What real news – I don't say LOE, LOMCE, is not the problem – what is the way, in recent years, we can say that it has advanced in equal classes? Those who volunteered for teachers or teachers put in place. It's not a matter of matter more or less, which I think doesn't solve the problem, but do we have a co-educational school? Is there any mechanism? It's good that the law says that college curriculums will be reviewed, has advanced the degree of psychology, right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u191	...to take those who are directly related to the matter of gender-based violence, introducing a cross-cutting perspective of gender equality or gender-based violence? No, it didn't. So is it true or not that the laws are undeveloped? Some will be budgetary matters, but others will be matters of will; of willingness to apply and develop the laws that exist at this time of gender violence. You know I don't think that I think everything has to be trusted to the complaint is going to solve the problem. I don't think we're alarmists to say that what we've been discussing in the commission we've got at this moment open, of analyzing the situation of gender violence, is that women don't feel safer. So, for nothing we say we want to move an alarmist question out, quite the opposite. We want the government, who can, to make these women feel safer. Especially by trying to make the complaint not the fundamental point, but other preventive mechanisms, other mechanisms of accompaniment, which can be detected – as I have already said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u193	... Mrs. Acuña—from the health centres or from the educational centers, they're starting. I hope that we will—after a rather ungrateful debate on the question—have something clean on this initiative and we will be able to approve something so that it will progress in gender-based violence in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u195	Thank you, President. As an example, we have discussed this morning a bill where amendments to this group that propose feminization, use of equal language, have been rejected. It is an example of the hypocrisy prevailing in equality policies. How in every intervention by the Administration in the appearances they're tired of saying that equality has to be a cross-cutting matter, and then they vote against things like this. I think you don't know what the transversality of a political measure is. How they talk about social gangs every time a masculine murder occurs and at the same time they are able to cut down the resources devoted to the fight against masculine violence. How the Group and the People's Parliament agree on the importance of education and training, and then they are able to continue funding schools that are sex-segregated. How they talk about the importance of aid to victims and no real measures are being implemented, with the limitation of the wage of freedom, so often criticized in the Commission on Equality, with its freezing, with no social and industrial inclusion, and so on. I mean, by word, fantastic, but in practice, absolutely nothing. It's hard for criticisms to be accepted here, because criticisms are not burdening the Government with the responsibility of the cases of gender-based violence, as Mr Rueda has suggested in the past full, but with the policies that this Government practices, which perpetuate the patriarchal system, and the cuts in the means available to the victims. And also, of course, in all councils, because equality is of course something transversal, even though this government doesn't practice it, and that's where you have responsibility. During the appearances in the Equality Commission, appearances that were not responsible for the Government, because they virtually did not respond to anything, systematically calling for training, for example, for the professional persons of the different units and public institutions. In the early years, the Government complained when we asked that it had been mandatory to comply with all health, justice, education, State Security Forces and Corps, and yet – I repeat – most of the attendances are the professionals and professionals who are demanding this training in the absence of it. We plan – as requested in the initiative, of course we shall vote for it – an amendment with two points; one of them, precisely, dedicated to ensuring that training continues to extend to all sectors of direct care with victims or potential victims. At the last session of the Equality Commission we lived in a magnificent audience of the directors of the CIM centres in Galicia, who begged the Government to apply the current legislation, and they caught him, in addition, a tremendous review, they gave him a real bath of how things are. They were demanding that gender training could not be voluntary. They reported that judges and institutions did not, in many cases, know the behaviour of a victim and the procedures given to suspicions of gender violence. They also denounced this genre in some allegations. And something that is extremely serious, an increase, in addition, of secondary victimization related to resource discoordination, which forces victims to walk through multiple institutions, repeating the case of gender-based violence. They reported multiple problems with connection to legal agents, and problems with derivations, for example from Health, to available resources. That is why in our amendment we also add a second point, which urgently calls for a multilateral dialogue that coordinates existing resources between CIM, Administration of Justice, Forces and Security Bodies, Equality, Welfare and Health. Because the consequences of the discoordinatement that pays them are the women victims, and, therefore, this government is responsible. In the rest of the points of the initiative, of course, we agree and we will vote in favour. The need for an investigation into such a serious case as the one that happened in Ourense, like the case of Isabel, is evident. We will also repeat it in our intervention in the interpellation. The lack of resources is also evident, and it has been denounced on several occasions in the Equality Commission also by the directors of the CIS. I'm going to finish. They are not the direct responsibility of the Government, of course, the murders of women, I would miss more! but what is the responsibility of the Government is the means to fight against gender-based violence and prevent it. It is therefore the government's responsibility not only to put a purple lacin in the Lapel on November 25th and March 8th, but to put the necessary means, coordinate services and train professionals and professionals. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado. No, sorry, sorry. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u197	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. Of course, something's failing. We will support the Socialist Party's motion, of course, on its three points, because it is clear that the State fails in its competences in gender violence. Failure, but no liability, no compensation, no repair, no even compensation. The judicial system harms women who are victims of violence, whether they report it or not. The first mistake is therefore that the complaint is an essential requirement. It can't be that the door to attain the right to be protected by the State in the face of the risk of being a victim of feminicide, is to lodge a complaint; that it is also very clear that it does not always work. In 2014, 14 women who have filed a complaint are murdered, and since 2008, 36 minors are murdered by the aggressor, many of them during visits by a judge or a judge. The need and right to live free from violence are not guaranteed by the State as far as masculine terrorism is concerned. And why? For the answer is very simple: because we were not made aware by the Administration that we are faced with a structural problem that needs to be tackled at root, because the other would be like palliative care. Half of humanity – I repeat – can be the object of violence on the subject of gender. In the case of Isabel Fuentes, Verín's wife murdered in a hospital in Ourense, there has never been a complaint of ill-treatment, but the Civil Guard suspects that the income was due to them, for this reason they ask the court for order of departure, providing hints that the suspicions are inflated, but the judge says that it does not proceed in the absence of a complaint and does not grant precautionary measures. The truth is, I don't understand it very well, as I don't understand how the killer can get armed with a knife in the room where the companion recovers from a coma that took her brutal beating and murdered her. Two administrative errors: a judicial error and a hospital security error. If it's true that the presumption of innocence must be considered above all, when a woman enters a hospital and remains in coma with symptoms of violence, when the neighbors declare that they saw her face marked with blows, when the Civil Guard has sustained suspicions that she is a victim of violence, this lack of defense is not explained, in addition to a defence whose consequence was death. It's not the only case, I've got more. Andrea Gascón, a 7-year-old girl murdered by her father in 2003, puts the Spanish State in a very controversial situation because an international committee found that the State was negligent about gender by allowing a regime of visits to a minor with a violent one. This decision was issued six months ago, but the Government of the State, which is the People's Party, announced that it will not meet the roadmap proposed by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination. I don't blame them, but have a little more interest in the problem. I don't want to finish my time without quoting one of the cases of extreme State violence, which began in the 1940s and which still hasn't been repaired today. I'm talking about the women entering the centres of the Frankish Patronato de Protección à Muller, converted in 1978, gentlemen, at the Institute for the Promotion of Women, in which it was about saving young people who had fallen or at risk of falling according to the morals of the Catholic Inquisition. All under the control of religious orders of the most ignited integrism. They have been in these centres many pregnant, runaway girls who have suffered beatings, humiliations, isolation and/or theft from their babies. This happened until 1983. Many of them are still alive, many of them are around the age of 60 and after so long they continue to live in the immense pain of not knowing their daughters and knowing that they have been stolen. This is extreme violence, extreme State violence. And I didn't want to let this opportunity pass without telling you. It's a structural problem, PP gentlemen, we have to go to the root. You have to sit down with the Feminist Movement and speak in the first person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u199	...of the problem. They're the ones who have to tell them what we all have to do. Go to the Feminist Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Popular Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mrs. Acuña, here, the only one who shows that he has no sensitivity is you, who takes advantage of, to take political advantage, the absence of a colleague from the People's Group who is accompanying a very close family member who has entered the hospital. That's your sensitivity, Mrs. Acuña. But, look, we're going to talk about the urgent interrogation you presented in September 2014; so urgent was that it took nine months to present it. Another shows, Mrs. Acuña, of her political opportunism: to wait for the death of a victim of gender-based violence to bring an urgent inquiry nine months later. And if you need a person to fail, a woman who is a victim of gender-based violence to speak to this full of gender-based violence, the truth and that is absolutely devastating. Look, in the interpellation of the past full when the vice president answered the eight questions you asked him, I think it became quite clear what he has been and what is the work he does since the Government of the Union on gender violence, both in the operation of the telephone to the victims – 365 days of the year, 24 hours a day – the resources that are available during the weekend, the training of security personnel, the follow-up of the protocols that I remind you, Mrs Acuña, that both the health care and that of state bodies and security forces have been approved by socialist governments. I don't know if the doubts you show about these protocols are an amendment to the socialist policy of gender violence. We, of course, are not going to enter that struggle, because we believe that in eradicating gender-based violence we must all participate. And I appreciate the constructive tone of the other voices. The truth is, when I said in this gallery that we should be responsible when we talk about gender-based violence, I'm absolutely convinced. And if we're talking about co-education here, if we're talking about training the agents of justice, if we're talking about training the health care professionals who care for the victims, information to the professionals of the centers and information to women, I think it would also be necessary to train the people we talk about gender violence, not to incur the irresponsibility that you've faced in the past, in the irresponsibility to say that women who denounce have no legal protection and who find themselves alone. Because we, our words in this forum, have a lot of impact on the media, you read a lot of women, and you can't come to this forum and say things that generate irresponsibility as great as what you did. And you say in your motion, at the first point, that if you do an investigation parallel to the judicial investigation. Look, we don't agree to supplement the work of justice, we absolutely believe in the separation of powers, we absolutely believe in judicial independence. I know you don't, you just said something absolutely amazing here: that the rules of judicial division change, so that you don't touch a judge with a certain procedure. I don't know if you know it's not the prosecutor who decides what judges are up to; if you don't know, you're going to take care of it. But there are previous rules of distribution that correspond to your judgment. And since you accuse certain parties of being in line with justice, what you're proposing here is absolutely the opposite, it's deciding which court case is divided into a certain matter. We do not agree with that, we believe in the independence of the three powers, we believe in the independence of the three powers. [[Applause]] And in this government, which you said a little conservative, a little machist and a little reactionary, because, look, in these last four years, you've had a lot of progress in free legal assistance, in the freeness of the school dining room for the children and daughters of the victims of gender violence, so that foreign women who don't speak in our language can communicate with the person who attends them, with the professional who serves them thanks to a remote translation service, as well as the deaf women, or the changes in the penal code to consider crime the harassment or coercion of these women, the manipulation of the control devices that are installed with the aggressors. And so I could keep telling him more things these governments did. But I don't want to go into what the PP did, nor what the PSOE did, nor what the other parties did, because I think all the advances that have been made in terms of gender violence are absolutely laudable, do them who do them, do them to the Socialist Party, do them to the People's Party, make them the Galician Nationalist Block. And I think that's the way, and the way isn't to come here and tell a government that's responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u202	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u203	...of death. What's irresponsible is to come here and say one party causes more deaths than another party. That seems absolutely irresponsible to me, Mrs. Acuña. And, look, on budget matters, which is the second point you propose, I ask them to take...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u205	...the programme 313D of the beginning of 2009, which is EUR 2,837.283, and for the year 2015, EUR 3,415,900. There has never been a greater budgetary support to protect women victims of gender-based violence. Make the numbers as you like, but that's published...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u207	...in 313D. Thank you very much, Madam President. I feel I can't go on because it's a subject, the truth, very interesting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u209	...and very important, but not to come to do here demagogy or to come to use the victims...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u211	...with political opportunism. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u212	Motion author group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u213	Thank you, President. First, thank you for your support and, of course, for the amendments tabled by the opposition groups. We will accept those amendments that complete the initial proposal. As for the People's Parliamentary Group, saying that this spokesperson didn't even know why the spokesperson for equality was absent. But the point is that of the 41 Members and Members with whom the Group of the People's Parliament has spoken, they have designated you, Mrs Prado, for this debate. Debates of the European Parliament [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know you don't care that the Socialist Parliamentary Group seems intolerable to us. But I have to tell them that out there, to the people who are out there, to citizenship also seems intolerable to their performance. What is it, Madam? why don't you want to investigate, what do you hide, what do you hide, Madam? Look, it really seems to you as normal, it seems ethical to you, it seems reassuring to you that it's the same trial that you didn't consider necessary to protect the victim who is now being instructed. Does that sound normal to you? Yes, yes, in how many countries in the world does the same thing happen? Look, does it seem normal for the murdered woman's family to be calling the General Council of the Judiciary, asking for them to sanction that trial, while the prosecutor's office, reacting to other things, does this seem to look elsewhere? Look, Madam, I ask you to demonstrate that responsibility that you have so much used in your speech and do something. Do something, Madam, show concern about gender-based violence and vote in favour of our proposals, which are undoubtedly absumable, necessary and useful. And you think well, Madam, you think well when you're going to press the button, what button do you press? Because the women and the victims are going to be looking at us, even though you seem to be more interested in where you're looking at the Prosecutor's Office. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the fight against forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u215	This motion was tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u216	You have the floor, to formulate your motion, Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. When the previous plenary session 13 days ago, the interpellation that gives rise to this motion was quite regrettable by reviewing the Journal of Sessions as the Rural Middle Counsellor, beyond the assertions made by Mr. Balsairo that in the recruitment processes of the Galician Board in relation to the air media, all guarantees – I said literally – were not given any kind of explanation – I insist – by the advisor in relation to the air media recruitment processes. The recruitment process "with all guarantees" – as Mr. Balsairo has defined – which led to irregularities detected by the Central Administrative Court of the Ministry of Finance, which cancelled the said invitation to tender, Galicia's Board itself had to cancel the invitation to tender and extend the contract with Inaer one more year. From that point of view, we believe that in the absence of explanations and the continuance with which the Board of Auditors expressed itself in its Report on the Control of Recruitment for the 2010 and 2011 financial years, in particular in regard to the recruitment of air resources for the extinction of fires, but here we are talking about the extinction of fires by the Galician Board, it is certainly quite striking that not only by the Rural Medium Council have all the formulations and considerations made by the Board of Auditors in the said report, but it follows from the practice that every year all the resources used for the recruitment of air resources, which are around the nine million euros, are always derived, always, from the same company, from the Inaer in which it concretely reaches the recruitment of air media and UTE that this form with Natutecnia when it is also about hiring staff for the helitransported brigades. That is why we believe that it is essential for the Rural Environment Council - as requested at the first point of this motion - to audit all the tendering processes that have been carried out by the Council, in relation to the air media, since these exercises which have been supervised by the Board of Auditors. Because not only did this correction take place on the part of the Council, but – as we see this same year – they continue to produce identical irregularities. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in view of what is happening in Valencia, of what we know after this research which has been opened up in connection with the hiring of air vehicles in the Valencian Community, you should be the first to be interested in determining that these kinds of issues are not happening here in Galicia beyond the irregularities. Because, in fact, here, the Board of Auditors is talking about irregularities in prayers and tendering processes, but, in view of what is happening, if they are not clarified, many and many of us might think that these are also corrupt practices. And we also, of course, consider that it is essential, in the procurement of air vehicles for the next year, to be done more time, as the Board of Auditors indicates, and that, in addition, if all the other recommendations which, in this matter, make up the Board of Auditors are taken into account. But in that inquiry we could also see – of course, and with the events that took place in the days ahead, specifically with the approval of the 2015 Forest Fire Defense Plan – the absolute determination with which the Rural Council assumes the fight against forest fires. It is no longer that we are faced with absolutely routine practices that systematically break the unity and uniformity of the forest fire fighting system – which attacks one of its basic foundations, such as prevention and structuring and preventive management of our forest space – but we could say that they remain in the fear of keeping the forest fire fighting device at minimum historical levels. That is why we believe it is essential for the Rural Council to rectify and also introduce effective measures, through the forest fire defence plan, so that, on the part of the municipalities – since it does not do so to the Galician Union, since it does not do so in collaboration with the owners – preventive actions can be carried out in the countryside. Because we, of course, don't want to have to put our hands to the head within a few months, or within a few weeks, when they again increase the number of fires in which maximum warning must be issued for the affect or possible affect on people, their properties and even their lives. We, of course, believe that the Galician Union, each time, in the area of prevention and its relationship with the municipalities, shows a greater quarriro, because we saw how last year there were specific agreements for the realization of prevention, and this year the Union is already about three in one. One three, consisting of a single agreement through which, theoretically, a brigade can be hired for preventive work, but in practice the agreement itself means that, in case there is a fire and it is claimed by the district, it has to do extinction work. And, given that these brigades come into operation in July, they will hardly be able to make prevention. Nor is it a receipt, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the Union systematically cheats. If you take the trouble of looking at annex 1 to Galicia's Forest Fires Defense Plan, you can check out how the Council of the Rural Environment can be more relevant and uncaring than the Council of the Rural Environment. The Rural Media Councillor, when he made an exhibition on the available media plagiarism, continues to count that in all the brigades there are seven members, when still yesterday a 085 worker called me to say that it was a shame, that the day before they asked him to send three brigades and what he could command were three people, one of each brigade, and you keep calling one-person brigades, a driver pawn who took the car and walked to the mountain alone. But that's already serious of itself, but the most serious thing is that you're trying to cheat and cheat, in a public document like Pladiga, by putting 410 forest peones done all year round, when that's a lie; by putting 292 forest peon in the fixed brigades suspended for nine months, when that's what you know you vote that's a gross lie. And this isn't just what the Galego Nationalist Block says, because if it wasn't a lie what you're saying, they're going to have to explain why by the 30th, there's a call for mobilization by trade union organizations representing the board of business of the Rural Council, asking, in its demanding table, for the coverage of vacancies, for a public job offer and for the defense of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. Or correct that practice and cover all the vacant squares, which are hundreds of them throughout the country, or will be you not only feared in relation to the operation of the device, but also gravely feared...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u218	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u219	...in relation to the safety of the people working on the device. And finally, you have the shame, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of publishing in the CEO of May 8, for 3,9 million euros – almost 4 million euros – of a helicopter and a helicopter and a helicopter brigade, when we have three helicopter brigades from the Galician Union, with staff from the Galician Union, which are at the bases of Monforte, at the bases of Verín and at the base of the Campinino in Pontevedra, without helicopter and, therefore, without being able to work. You say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if this is not to dismantle a public device, with guarantees, with single, unique and exclusive command to favor and fill the pockets of INAER and Natutechnia. You'll be the ones who have to explain that policy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u221	Well, in the audit report of the Board of Auditors for 2010 and 2011, there are serious deficiencies in relation to firefighting services; among them, for example, the provision of service to companies with a limited technical score, which is really serious. The technical and human means are the only elements that count when facing the fire, and much more in a forest fire; therefore, if we have companies with little technical score and, in addition, we cut into human troops, we are consciously and adrede – by the Union – feeding on the possibility of fires, by large fires. That's the policy of Union. To fight fire, the air media play a key role, as they contribute to confront it in a fast and effective way. Air activities related to the extinction of fires, from the transfer of personnel to the ground to the launch of water, require highly specialized titrations, so their training is essential. It is essential to update training, periodic aviation practices, due to the special situation in which they work – the most dangerous maneuvers are carried out at the time of discharge of water on the fire and in the immediate seconds before and after it. The fight against fires requires trained and qualified professionals who are ready to act in any emergency, but prevention is essential to preserve our natural heritage. "Prevention," a word that does not demand in the vocabulary of the Board. In the 2015 Pladiga, despite the multiple protests of fire fighting services, human media remains: 5,767 people. Let's remember that in 2013-2014 the vessel overflowed with the firemen's strikes and the succession of cases of disorder that call into question the political model, expired and cacíquil, and inefficient of the People's Party. So, we could read -- in yesterday's press -- that Laza brigadiers will strike indefinitely if they don't get their pay; this was the headline but the news says more: the brigadiers criticize the discoordination of fire extinguishing services and the lack of means, in addition to their payrolls. We're talking about people who play their lives to put out the fire, the forest fires, for 900 euros a month; a real robbery, should shame the government that people who play their lives to save the lives of others and to save our natural heritage, have to do it for 900 euros a month. A scandal! And they warn by summoning an indefinite strike from July 15th. But they also denounce that the helicopters in which they must be transported to the fires are not at their disposal yet, so they must be moving by car. That's his fight against forest fires and that's his model. Because Galicia is not a place other than the rest of the world, and I said it more than once: it's not that we have more fires per square metre here than in the rest of the world, it's a problem of the policy that follows, this policy of putting out fires, but there's no policy of preventing fires, and so on. A policy of totally fragmented, privatized, unprofessional devices, with no single command, a real chaos in the midst of the fire. I don't know if you imagine what it must be to work in these conditions, in circumstances where the fire is moving forward, where there are no means, where, as we read last year, sulfators are going to try to put out the fires. It's a scandal. And do you talk about how you can fix the fires in Galicia, because with policies that go, precisely, to prevent the fires and fire-fighting equipment that are coordinated. That's why – it's over time – I'm presenting an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u222	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u223	...that will ensure that all brigades have as many means to extinguish fires as the PPEs, the individual protection teams, because many of these brigades lack enough masks to stop smoking. So they're intoxicating themselves and they're putting their health at a serious risk. I hope that the amendment will be accepted, but I shall vote in favour of this motion anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u224	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u225	Good afternoon. In the inquiry I've already commented that I think the key to this is that you privatize a service without justifying that your privatization is more effective from a technical point of view or from an economic point of view. There's no justification for private management improving, saving money or improving system efficiency. Where it began to outsource, the rate of hectares by fire increased and there was no improvement in direct management. It's obviously one more business niche. We also warned that the companies themselves that went on to have an almost exclusive monopoly on air media were created by former high charges, people who had information on where the shots were going. Concerned information about INAER's contracts throughout the Spanish State is beginning to appear. There was still a recent publication of a conflict between Angel Martínez Ridao that faced Jaime Arqué, from INAER, for intrusions into his business in Galicia. A short time ago, information was also issued from the contract of an Air Army aircraft to INAER, for which the INAER company ends – as I said in the previous plenary – by hiring pilots from the Army itself. A totally irrational issue. INAER has a monopoly on air systems that are extinguishing fires, but also on health emergencies, maritime rescue, etc. Since 2009 he has, at least those I have checked, contracts with the Galician Union worth 102 million euros – between maritime rescue, fire extinction and health emergencies –. There is no competition in this field, there is no competition, and what is produced is a very dangerous, very dangerous, dependent on these companies, because the decapitalisation of the public administration makes it very difficult to reversibility of this option. The prices and conditions will therefore be marked by these companies which have a monopoly; therefore, outsourced management is not justified because there is no competitive private sector, where there is competition, where that competition can favor a better service. There's no such thing, there's a total monopoly, there's agreements between entrepreneurs, there's agreements, there's division of territory, etc. And this is just beginning to come to light, you'll know all these issues in the next few years, because this is quite a recent activity. Not to mention the previous technical secretary general of the Galician board, his partner or wife, the judicial adviser of the Galician board who ended up working in an office that intervened in the purchase of 49% of INAER by KKR, etc. They're starting to come out with quite worrying information. So our amendment is consistent with our line that we believe that public management is more efficient than privatization of these services, and that there is no evidence that it is cheaper or more efficient to outsource this service. And, therefore, we will continue to defend that direct management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u226	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word of Mr. Pablo García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u227	Thank you, President. The other day I was making a pretend... well, it's true that I was telling the advisor that I anticipated we were going to attend today, another year, the presentation of the Pladiga; well, even this led me to the opposite because he didn't come to present the Pladiga. I suppose we'll introduce the Pladiga, which is the Fire Prevention and Extinction Plan, at the end of the month or early next month. I think, in any case, it's true that no one expects anything from the Pladiga anymore, because it's exactly the same as the previous year, in practice, we don't have any trauma, but formally it's a rather significant fact that the Fire Prevention and Extinction Plan is going to be presented and approved in August, surely, or at the end of July. I think it's quite significant. I repeat, in practice, it is even to thank because, truly, in all three previous presentations of the Pladiga there was no novelty, and there was no contribution of any relevant, even questionable data either. It was a mere processing of figures and staff that, as has already been said here, was anyway a lie. But let's focus on something quite significant, that is, on a very specific aspect: if we're talking about the amount of money we're talking about, we're talking about contracts of 8 million euros a year that take place for two years – that is, 16 million euros just in that, only in helicopter rental – and in other respects we're talking about a logically important volume of business. And that gives rise to what is taking place, and I was in what I did the other day – regardless of whether Mr. Balsairo understood me, but I think the rest of the House fully understood it – that is, the entrepreneurs dedicated to the sector, dedicated to this in the autonomous communities, are sharing the market and, therefore, they are being divided where they are presented, divided the adjudications, divided the presentations and also divided the denials. In such a way that there is no pact of non-aggregation and that each is presented in a given territory and the contract is adjudicated – and, in fact, that is the argument given to the Board so that INAER will then extend the contract, that there is no other possibility of hiring it to another company –. And that's happening and it's happening. And so I clearly told the advisor that I didn't consider her an accomplice, like the Valencian politician, but I considered her guilty because that model she defended gives rise to this kind of practice. And it's not just that we go, somehow, trying to shorten that model as short as possible, but that we're promulgating it and encouraging it. We only rented the helicopter before; for years now, with this government, the decision is taken not only to rent the helicopter, but also to hire that company to hire the staff that goes to the helicopter and, therefore, to increase that business capacity. In fact, this model that defends this government is no more efficient, but it is more expensive for taxpayers – and we have already reflected it here, done the numbers many times – and there is also another significant data: above all it is a very lucrative model for certain people and for certain companies. And that's neither good nor bad and you may like the People's Party more or less, but that's right. And I, logically, am not accusing her of anything illegal because, if I had the evidence that they're committing something illegal, it would probably not be this forum where we would discuss it. I'm finding a reality that's like this, and actually, this is a very lucrative business for certain people and that you encourage by action or by default, and you've been encouraging it over the last few years. And reality, then, is what it is. We've been watching this weekend, these last days, the first high-risk period of fires. I mean, this weekend, these four days. That's right. Junta pulls out the "high risk of fire" map...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u229	...and the fact is that we have a helicopter for all of Galicia at high-risk times of fires, that the casualties remain uncovered, that the municipal brigades – which in theory would have to be working, I say, for prevention in July, and the month of July is next week – are not operational, that the vacancies... they are actually talking about brigades always and they can't talk about people because they have nothing to see the brigade... that is, soon we're going to conclude that each brigade is a single person. The other day I was going out in the district of my people, the 16th district, and I said clearly: that the guards are not covered 24 hours, that there is no material, that no planning has been done in these six months -- and they've been saying it, I don't say it anymore, without doing anything because there's been no work organization -- that the PPE has not been renewed for two years, that the prevention material hasn't reached the brigades since 2007. And this is what the professionals themselves say. So then the advisor will come here with the Pladiga...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u230	Finish it, Mr. Garcia, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u231	...in turn to sell us whatever you want. As always, it will depend on whether it rains or not. And now neither is that because the counselor himself, though it rains, says it doesn't rain and nothing happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u232	Thank you very much. Popular Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u233	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Peace, we have to show our surprise because you have not given up presenting this initiative, taking into account the clarifications you made in the past and the content of the complete response offered by the advisor in the previous plenary. The Counsellor explained that Junta incorporated all, and I say all, the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors to improve the recruitment process for fire helicopters. Simply with this argument – which does not cease to be an objective, tangible, comparable argument – its initiative, as you will understand, remains quite empty of content. And if anything has done to the People's Party's Government since it acceded to the Union, it was precisely to improve the functioning and organization of the operation against forest fires as well. To improve all those aspects that have clearly failed in the past, so that they do not fail. You're talking about hiring with INAER. I have to tell you that this is a leading company in Spain in emergency services, hires with her the Ministry, hires with her the neighbouring country of Portugal, hires with her most of the autonomous communities that have this service – Canarias, Andalusia, Extremadura, Castile-A Mancha, Murcia, the Community of Valencia, Madrid, Aragon and Galicia – and hires her the People's Party in Government and hires her the bipartisan when she was in government too. That's good for you to know. You ask in point 1 of your initiative to audit the hiring of air vehicles. Well, at least this doesn't make sense, because they passed all the legal reports and the procedure was supervised by the Joint Intervention Service. But what is more, it has been audited precisely by the Board of Auditors, whose recommendations have been incorporated. And the question is, what better audit than this? But, by the way, we must also clarify one issue: part of the warnings made by the Council of Fair Accounts on the recruitment of the two-party Government; hire of 14 helicopters for the prevention and extinction of fires. Recruitment that you have made, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, and perhaps instead of coming to the councillor's office here, we should have asked you, from the majority group in this House, from the People's Group, how you did these contracts. Have a good look at the documentation and the summer. You speak, Mrs. Paz, in point 2, of collaboration with the Town Councils. First, you and your group must clarify, because, as I know, the main measure of collaboration with the municipalities is the forest brigades; and you and your group, and opposition groups, are against them. Yes, the mayors of the Galego Nationalist Block, the mayors of the Socialist Party and the mayors of the Popular Party apply. They demand them because the main functions of these forest brigades are prevention jobs. And the surface data, of action in forestry and prevention, speak for themselves: in 2008, acres 48,000; in 2015, acres 59,000. That's the reality. And you're talking, in addition, in point 3, about dimensionalizing human resources. Well, I have to say that the 2015 Pladiga maintains the same firefighting device: 5,767 people from the Union, along with the Ministry's staff, along with the Army personnel, along with police personnel, who rise to more than 7,000 troops, all coordinated under the single command. And there are also the 125 Seaga brigades, which have been put off for the summer's reinforcement; and the number of air vehicles – 32 of the board and the Ministry – has been maintained, and the 360 motorcycles and tanks are maintained. And today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u234	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u235	...–Yes, I end, Madam President– all the essential places for the operation of the service are in the process of covering. And at this point, the call of the staff has made a disincentive that will come into work on July 1st. And right now we've covered 93.2% of the staff and that figure will be completed after the calls; and, as far as the staff member is concerned, we've now covered 96.4%. I hope you've made it clear that your initiative remains empty of content after the explanations you have given you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u237	...in the past full-fledged Counselor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u238	Motion author group. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Balsairo, fortunately, at the BNG we also read and insist that the control report refers to contracts made during 2010 and 2011, in fact it is titled that way. It is true that he mentions the contracts made by the bipartisan during 2008, but to denounce that you have made illegal extensions of these contracts, not only in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, even in some cases in 2013. That's what you did, Mr. Balsairo, with the contracts you made the bipartite. And, of course, I won't waste any more time trying to explain this to you. With regard to the alleged clarifications of the adviser in the past full, and that everything was so tight in his recruitment process, you should one day explain to me why they had to cancel that recruitment process; because, according to the administrative court under the Ministry of Finance, the current wording of the claims means an inexhaustible breach of the rules for the preparation of the contract. I already told you the other day that I have no idea of the law of recruitment, but that's what a court under the Ministry of Finance says. And finally, in relation to the coverage of the squares, look: you on the Pladiga can write Mass in Aramaic, if you want, you can put 5,000 workers or 25,000 dependents on the device hired directly by the Board of Galicia, but I say, I strongly and I challenge you, any Member or Member of the People's Party, the Rural Media Advisor, the vice president, the president or any of the board of Galicia, if they are able to document that all the workers on the Pladiga exist in reality. There are jobs, but there are no people of flesh and bone, who are going to put out the fires. Not what appears on the papers, not the five pawns per brigade that appear on the papers, who are really going to extinguish the fire are, in most cases, one or two pawns per brigade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u240	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u241	And if they're capable, I challenge any member of the Government who comes here to deny this statement. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u242	Mrs. Peace, will you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u243	Yes, Madam President, I accept amendments from both the Joint Group and the Alternative Left-Galga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u244	Thank you very much. We then proceeded to the motions vote. Motions vote We started with the first motion, from the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, who said he accepted the amendments of the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions planned by the Galician Council to help or prevent the relocation of the jobs of the Adolfo Domínguez group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u245	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña do Campo, who said that he accepted the amendments to the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Alternative Left Gaul. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the fulfilment of the protocols of gender violence The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u246	Finally, we voted for the motion by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, who accepts the amendments of the Joint Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left. Voting of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, on the need to carry out an information campaign among return emigrants regarding the taxation of pensions received abroad. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u247	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the public media
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u248	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left (EU-ANOVA), the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and through its spokesperson Xosé Manuel Biras Torrado, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presents the following amendment to the G. P. Mixed Proposition No 30960, included on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 and 23 June 2015.Additional EMENDY:A point must be added to the resolution, with the following text: "5.-" That it immediately comply with the applicable laws of the media of Galicia, on all aspects referred to in the current "algal" configuration of the board of administration, and the appointment of the CEO of CRTVG by the German Parliament.)]] [[(The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to the Non-Legal Proposal, Doc. # 30960, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the public media, which will be included in the agenda of the plenary session, to be held on the following June 22 and 23, 2015.Additional amendment:Add two new points with the following text: "-For the new Director General of CRTVG to be appointed by Parliament of Galicia within a maximum of 3 months."]] To formulate the non-law proposal has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u249	Galician TV workers again denounced the manipulation of information services, the growing pressure on workers and workers of information services, and the intensification of bias in news media on the occasion of the election precipitate. The Committee on Television warns publicly of the worsening of these anti-constitutional practices and denounces an unequal treatment of the different political candidatures with the promotion of the People's Party and the systematic concealment of those formed by other parties or coalitions that appear only in the information regarding disputes or conflicts. They add that there is a resounding of the interference of the intermediate commands on the work of professionals and professionals with constant calls and pressures to determine the meaning that certain information must take and even to censor the coverage of others. These practices have long been denounced by all the journalists and journalists on the Welsh television through a blog called I don't manipulate. But they say that the seriousness of the situation makes the Committee now assumes the responsibility to publicly warn about a manipulation that they consider gross, anti-constitutional and criminal. Most of these irregularities collect them in the blog I don't manipulate; the numerous cases of corruption that the People's Party are not news on Galician Television, that says the blog of the television workers and workers. The news that is negative to the People's Party is very small or directly unaccounted for. On the day that the papers of Bárcenas were published, and if all of the alleged People's Party B accounts were unearthed, the Galician TV news opened with news about the rain in Galicia. Besides, the information was biased and was based only on PP denials hiding what really happened. Also the photos of Feijóo with Martial Dorado, in spite of being a scandal of Galician's highest-ranking, on the Galician TV only went out once or twice, and then the slogan was given that they would never leave again. They gave the version of the president of the board and took it, without further investigation. The scandals that affect the opposition are re-emerging and may even be several days in the news, also the constant attacks on Venezuela and its relationship with some political parties. Manipulation and censorship are not only in the political sphere, they transcend economic data that can affect the government. If Spain's unemployment data is better than Galicia's, only the state data is given and, if not, it's reversed. The same party is always looking for the most positive approach to the broadcast. Another example was the Caritas Report, which was not issued on the air despite the fact that it reflected the moment of poverty, considerably, in recent years in Galicia. Information on labour conflict is literally non-existent. Information was not provided on the Report of the General Council of the Judiciary on the effects of the economic crisis, which highlighted the increase in the number of evictions in the state during 2014. How can we doubt the moral breakdown of these people who have not even alluded to the tragedy of suicides in Galicia because of the economic crisis? According to a study of psychology professionals and other areas in our Community. Which, by the way, asks what I did to the president and which he strongly denied that this was going on. Since Thursday, November 20, the possible illegal financing of the Ourense People's Party was known, Galician TV news outlets have echoed at all times the official statements of the party's leaders, completely silencing the opinion of those who denounced corruption, which was manager of the provincial People's Party for twenty-seven years, Emilio Pascual. To frame this situation, it is necessary to know that the television news director was elected to the People's Party. There are over 700 complaints that appear on the blog, from omissions in the case of Bárcenas or Gürtel, going through Pokémon, or the relationship of Feijóo with a drug dealer, the unequal treatment of political parties, the case of Corcoesto mine or the low attention to.gal domain or the altercations of Esperanza Aguirre. Dozens of cases, the last ones led to underline the positive data of state macro-economics and to hide the negatives of real life. It is true that unemployment figures improve – as they have reported on the Galician television – but they do not account for increasing labour tempority, the large number of young people who emigrate to Europe or to America, nor do they report on the Welsh and Welsh people who live under the poverty line. Among the most widely viewed complaints on the blog are the references to the Angrois accident, which the management decided to issue by jumping to the criteria of the editors they edited, and the reference to the space El Intermediate program dedicated to the issue of Galician Television on the manipulation of Compostela disturbances in the demonstration of the mariners in the siege. But there are many more, and there will be them, because, in the Galician Radio-Television Commission of May, the general director of the Greek public said that ruling gives an additional presence in the news, government who governs. That's their policy, that's what they believe, in the biased use of the public media. But to ensure this manipulation, the Galician Radio and Television Company is repressing its staff. Now, by virtue of a standard unilaterally approved, Galician Radio-Television will be able to review the emails and files of the computers of its employees and even of the collaborators who use corporate computers and mobile phones. Nor can any computer equipment enter the workers within the company unless they have an express authorization. Galician Radio-Television reserves the right to randomly monitor and check any Internet access sessions initiated by a user within the network. Besides, they also give them rules about the wardrobe they have to use and the gesticulation they have to use. This is an attack on workers' social, political and labor expressions. There's a great attempt to suppress and sow terror among Radio-Television Galega staff to obey it and not give the news as they are, but as the People's Party wants it to be. Trade unions report that the main objective of these measures is to have them controlled and want to have a fearsome wording. They're acting against privacy, freedom of expression and journalists' rights. Public television must follow criteria of plurality, veracity, objectivity and be at the service of citizenship. The news order is to always give positive news, optimize everything to favor the People's Party – that is what the workers of the Galaga Radio-Televisión – say. What needs to be optimized is the social function of public radio television by betting on a quality media, which reflects reality under the motto of plurality with a programming that bets on the quality and normalization of our language using the high quality folding services we have. That's why we are presenting this initiative that is going to affect, or it wants to affect, precisely, the rights of workers and public television workers, to eliminate the censorship of editorials, to democratize the media and something very important and non-existent: that trade unions and social organizations have room for debate on public television in Galicia. Because it is impossible to hear the opinion of the unions or organizations representing society on our public television. It's also important to take care of our language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u251	...–I've finished – sometimes it's disgusting to see you use Spanish for many continuums or even listen to the bad work done in Greek, while workers and doubling workers are unemployed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u253	Good afternoon. The Galician Nationalist Block would like to come here today, to this plenary session of the Greek Parliament, to congratulate and say that Galician Radio and Public Television are doing the right thing and that they are performing the function of public service that they are responsible for and that they are entrusted with the vigilante legislation. But unfortunately, reality is very different. The BNG has on numerous occasions denounced the situation of the media of public ownership, which is totally pro-governmental, which conceals Galician reality, conceals those and the discrepants and acts only for the benefit of the People's Party. We have denounced to satiety the information manipulation that is practised on both radio and public television in our country. We have the clear conviction that it is necessary to improve the functioning and quality of Galicia's public ownership media, to ensure greater democratization, more pluralism, the protagonist of the professional approach of workers and workers. At the BNG we are very clear that Galicia needs public media, in Greek, from Galicia, and to the service of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, which respects plurality, veracity and is objective. A public radio and television that are relevant to the drive of our culture, our language, and also as an engine for the audiovisual sector and the performing arts. That is why we are going to support this initiative, which is presented by the Joint Group today, and to which we have tabled an amendment with two points, an amendment which addresses two aspects which do not concern the initiative and which seem to us to be relevant: the need for this Parliament to appoint a Director-General, and the need to approve the professional status and a briefing board. And I have to show my surprise because the second point of this amendment was not qualified by the Bureau of this Parliament. My surprise was that exactly the same text of the amendment was presented as a non-legislative proposal to this plenary, was debated in this plenary session of 26.11.2013; it was, at that time, qualified and admitted by the Bureau, and now we find that the same table considers – literally – that "they agree to the admission of point 2 for not adjusting the right to the provisions of Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure", with which we find ourselves with a more evidence of the fully discretionary use of the Rules on the part of this Parliament, which decides according to the day and the second is appropriate, therefore, what is admissible or what is not admissible. I hope you have some explanation to explain it. In any case, the amendment -- I don't dare tell the president that, please, there's a lot of noise in the House, but how it bothers him to be told -- but it's very difficult to expose something with this level of noise. Well, he said that in any case the amendment calls for two questions: that Galician Public Media Act 9/2011 envisages that, on the one hand, it is the appointment of a new Director General of the CRTVG; a totally unmet issue, which almost four years after the Act was passed; that in September 2014, the Socialist Party brought here again an initiative that urged the Government of Greece to comply with the provisions of the Law 9/2011, which voted as in the joint adoption of the Law the People's Party and the Socialist Party, but that, apart from making a vote in this House and adopting initiatives...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u254	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u255	...I don't understand anything. And also an amendment calling for the professional status referred to in Article 36 of this law to be put in place, which is the creation of the Information Council, which is also covered by that law, the demand made by workers and workers, the demand transferred to this Parliament, accompanied by more than 300 signatures, but which has been rejected by this House's majority group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u257	Therefore, it is more evident that Galicia needs public media that is at the service of our country. Time sets and takes away reasons and it's obvious that when the Galician Nationalist Block didn't vote in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u259	...this law saying that it didn't respond to the public media interests of Galicia, nor to the interests of the Greek people, it was more than obvious that we were right because almost four years later...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u260	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado, thank you very much. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u261	Good night, everyone. With little hope that you will hear what I am going to propose in this House, given the interest that was demonstrating the speech of the spokesperson of the Nationalist Block Galego. We're dealing with a topic that is very important, the Welsh public channel is a fundamental part of this country, of its culture, of its language, of our personality, but also of our economy. But by paraphrasing Malcolm X, we need to take good care of the current TVG, because we can end up praising the oppressor and hating the oppressed, because the current TVG is an element of distortion of Greek reality, it is the expression organ of the People's Party, paid by all the Greeks and the Greeks; and not only that: a People's Party that invents rules to pursue dissidents, which represses and fights hard those who oppose unjust laws and norms, it turns out that, when it is interested, it violates its own laws, which they approve. As in this case, the Media Act of Galicia, repeatedly violated by electoral interests of the People's Party. First, in its objectives, because no pluralism, no veracity or accessibility is met; secondly, because the Board of Directors is not appointed by this Parliament each year, a board of directors where someone from AGE should be present and is not, because there is a political decision made by this country's bipartisanism to exclude the AGE from that Board of Directors; that we have no more interest in participating than to be able to monitor the reality of the Greek public channel. And, too, because in that Media Act it is said that Parliament must appoint the Director General, and today we continue without this Parliament being able to appoint the Director General. By the way, a general director who would have had to resign for several questions: first, for failing the truth and lying in the Welsh House, for coming here to say that he was unaware of the reality about the returns of the EVD from the public, and to recognize in an official document just a week after that was so; a director who would have to resign because, to a question from this spokesman in the Control Committee, when we asked him for correction when he lied about an activity of our parliamentary group, he said literally that if they had to correct each time they said something wrong, they would have to do it in the morning, in the evening and in the evening of every day. That would mean the immediate expulsion of the public official, and more if we were to talk about someone who, in theory, manages a channel that is of all and all, that has to be, at least, true. Therefore, the current situation of the public channel in Galicia is indecent. But more indecent is how the reality of this country is expressed through the public channel, as it happens, for example, than the AGE speakers, when we go out in the press rounds that we do in this Parliament, on very few occasions our voice is heard, and if you hear someone interpreting what we say in that press round. How can it be able to put corruption cases on the table in any place in the country less than in Galicia affecting workers of the People's Party or members of the People's Party, who have existed and continue to exist? How is it possible that information about the neighbouring country, Portugal, is just a quarter of the information from Venezuela or North Korea? Questions that happen only on a public channel like this, not anywhere else normal. Therefore, the public channel acts with that fine rain of manipulation which aims to modify the reality of the country on the basis of what the People's Party wants, which knows our citizenship, and therefore it takes action to remove a problem that will be the lack of credibility of a necessary and fundamental public channel for our future. It is more: this is so much so that the People's Party's own voice in the Committee on Control of the TVG, Mr. Baamonde, [...], said directly, in a control commission, that it was a government medium, a government medium, that the TVG was a government medium, recognizing the reality: that in the TVG it is said and done what the Government commands, what it does or what it says to the Council of Galicia. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] So we believe that there is discriminatory treatment with regard to plurality in this country, that information is not actually transferred and that it is also about manipulating that reality, and that is why it is necessary to comply with the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u262	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u263	A law that we do not share, a law that is not ours, but which says that in Parliament, where is the sovereignty – supposedly – of this people, it is where one has to decide who is the director. It's a question you don't consider today. That's why our amendments, to two questions: to amend the Board of Directors in accordance with the law, and to change the current director, who, after his statements and to lie in the Welsh House, cannot continue in that position any more. Nothing else and good night.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u264	Good night, Mr. Fajardo. No illegal actions by any Member, no Ayatolas or anything that seems to you, then do... No, what is clear here is that you are not able to speak of illegal acts by any Member of this House and therefore I ask you to remove those expressions and, if you do not withdraw them, you know that you will have a call to order, and that this president will withdraw them. [[Mr. Fajardo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Socialist Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Good night. Well, Madam, I would not have any hope that the People's Party would support this initiative, or even consider it. Among other things, because if the People's Party has so far used the company as a press office, well, I think from now on it's not going to correct anything either because it's going to be more necessary. The political control of the Government of the People's Party, causes these media to have absolutely discriminatory treatment with the opposition groups and they do not convey the reality that happens in this Parliament, but not in social life either. So we take an absolutely party TV and a huge information bias. I understand that, or I don't understand, that is to say, criticism of that law which is safe, and possibly, is much better, but of course, what is true is that when the Socialist Party had a law for the public media in the state, I believe that democratic quality was quite superior, here we don't have the opportunity to check whether that law would work or not. What's clear is that what we only have does is it's a transmission belt from the People's Party's Government Group. The People's Party, in any case, shows no interest in the application of that law which could bring greater information plurality to the public media. On the other hand, not only in the public media, but also the attempt by the Government of the People's Party to control private media. What the People's Party's Government Group gets with that control of the company, is a TV that doesn't consume itself, that is, when the low audience of both digits, well, all experts say that the audience doesn't go, that doesn't work. That doesn't make any publicity either, it makes the company have no incomes other than those coming from the budget, and it makes us generate an effective public environment, I don't know if that popular party's claim, that is to say, to use the public environment for an electoral campaign element and, on the other hand, that it's not effective to end privatize it, or I don't know what it's meant with this circle that doesn't lead to anything at all, but to that benefit to the People's Party Government. The TVG's programming offer that is addressed to the Galician society presents indisputable quality evasives. And here I want to know that the Socialist Group is not talking about the company's workers, it's not talking about who works there, but about the political commissioners who prevent the news from being given with absolute plurality, and that they prevent the production of the television itself that is being made profitable. I'm saying this because usually the People's Party, that is, when you talk about health, comes the counselor here saying that opposition groups speak ill of doctors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u266	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u267	... when it comes to education that we speak ill of teachers; then nobody comes here saying that we're talking bad about professionals. Among other things, because it's the professionals who go to the political groups to complain that they're not doing their job. Therefore, to make it clear that I believe the application of the law is important, but also to leave the patent we have no hope in the application of that law. Because if since 2011 in, let's say, in a situation of peace and happiness for the People's Party, it wasn't necessary to apply the law, I don't think it's going to apply now either. In any case, from the Socialist Group, we are demanding – of course it could not be otherwise – the application of that law. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Group. Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u269	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We are bringing the debate today with an initiative which in principle referred to the democratization of the public media, particularly the CRTVG, but which ultimately turns into the already-manufactured debate that we live every day in the Radio Television Informative Commission on plurality and manipulation with regard to television. I understand, of course, that each one interprets them according to the situation he occupies, and now we have just heard a positioning by the opposition groups. Speaking of Mr. Fajardo, he made an appointment about oppression and oppressors, I'll make him the one that did Nietzsche: "We don't see others as they are, but as we want them to be." And really, you're not drawing what television is, but, above all, some of the ones that were talking about here, it seems that they have on the retina that two-party government television that if they responded exactly to the scheme they just reflected here. I think you make a mistake of thinking about this plurality and manipulation, which are based on the wrong concept, which is to think that people are easily manipulated through the media, and specifically through television. And that's not the case. Today, information is not acquired by osmosis, but by contrast, it is said that health is enjoyed by contrast because it is appreciated when it is not. And the television is exactly the same. The citizenry has at its disposal a huge amount of media that transmits very different information from many different points of view, and today everyone has sufficient ability and competence to contrast, synthesize that information, and appreciate it in the way it seems appropriate to him. That's why the media that today enjoys the favor of the public is not the media that transmits doctrinal information, but the media that transmits intelligent information. We may insist on this subject, but Mrs Martínez raises a battery of questions on which I have to pronounce to fix the position of our group, which is obviously contrary to the acceptance of the initiative, and with the same dogmatic character as she does it, allow me also, very briefly, to make a statement about it. With regard to access to public media by various collectives, Mrs. Martínez, Galicia's political, ideological, cultural and social pluralism, is a conceptual part of the Galician Public Television Radio, the foundational law itself, and so it is also collected in Law 9/2011, it is Galician Television that guarantees it through the incorporation of these groups into its programming. Well through direct programs, well with their presence in information or outreach programs. As far as censoring editorials is concerned, look! the television aside that as any media has of course an organization where decision-making and responsibilities is stratified at various levels, today the information is in the hands of professionals, is a team of journalists that marks the guidelines in this regard and does so within the absolute freedom of their professional exercise. Speaking of quality parameters and dissemination of values, of course, is the same as not talking at all about anything. In particular, because these two concepts are also inherent in the concept of CRTVG itself, and thus guarantee them the principles of programming adopted by the Governing Council, and also collected in the global pact. You also guarantee work rights, as it was not missing anymore, and as for your own production, it doesn't seem that this is the most serious problem of CRTVG. The data speaks for themselves. In this sense, Mrs Martínez, telling you that the production itself last year exceeded 50%, the external production itself was 30%, and the foreign production dropped two points to 18%. Finally, to say that television actually advances in the performance of public service. It is true that as all televisions have difficulties, financial difficulties, competitiveness, fragmentation of audiences, but we receive a ruined television and today it is economically sound, a television where information was held in political hands and today in professional hands, a television shaken by judicial resolutions on impartiality that do not exist today. And so I can make my own that phrase of San Agustín: "If I analyze myself, if I compare – if I compare to the television of the bipartite – I become euphoric." And finish with a reference to Mr. Fajardo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u270	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u271	...Mr. Fajardo, with the Board of Directors, the post that would correspond to you – I told you again – is being occupied by the Socialist Party, the director's election will be made by consensus when it can be achieved. Here we've just seen that some aren't able to agree with themselves, so it's hard for them to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u273	...to agree with others. And allow me a playful reference: Mr. Fajardo spoke [...], I won't lie to him, I simply remind him of that final scene of Casablanca, when the protagonist addresses the black pianist; I say the same thing: "Fairdo, touch her again."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u274	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u275	Well, I don't know if the People's Party thinks we're idiots, or if you don't think about it, but you're really convinced, more than you think, because to say that there's no manipulation, that there's no repression on German television is to make us idiots, especially when you say that there's no propaganda and that's not interesting. But if you spend millions on propaganda, it's what you spend the most, propaganda, which is the only thing you know how to do, and on Radio Television Galega, it's also free of charge, which is wonderful. They use it as their home, government television, it becomes clear, it's not the television of the Greeks and the Greeks, there's no freedom of expression, there's no freedom of information, you say that the guarantee that the political, social and trade union organizations are guaranteed, where?, where is it heard on television a debate on labour reform, for example, when is a debate about the working conditions of workers and workers?, when about the types of employment and how they affect workers and workers? Hypocrisy, they only move for hypocrisy and support. That's what there is. We're talking about a television that has no social participation, that there's no information plurality, that sells only Spanish culture, but Spanish, there's no German theatre, or Spanish music, the only thing there is Spanish. And the only thing that is being asked for in this initiative is the end of manipulation, the end of concealment of information, the plurality that our language is put in value, it's a shame to see how all the advertising of the Galician television is in Spanish, it's a scandal that the Spanish television admits to advertising in Spanish. And also put an end to the repression that is being practised on the workers and the workers, because all the allegations I read before, I didn't invent them, are on the blog denounced by the journalists themselves, who say that they are forced to change the news, to give a version, the version of the People's Party, and not the version of the reality that they saw or heard. That's the problem of the People's Party, they act just as they did in frankness with censorship. That's his policy. Because you who had to be the guarantors of freedoms are the first to end it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u276	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u277	Finally, Madam President, by placing myself on the amendments, I cannot admit point 2 of the BNG, since it was not admitted by the Bureau, I would gladly admit, and as for the amendment of the AGE and the first point of the BNG, I propose to accept the two that go in the same direction by incorporating the three months of the BNG, in a transitional to the proposal of the Left Gaul Alternative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. If they come up with some kind of transaction between the two amendments, let me come in. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the future financing plan of the Greek university system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u279	This non-legislation proposal was presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block. [[(The Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), on the initiative of Mr Cosme Pombo Rodríguez, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to the Non-Legal Proposal, Doc. # 37463 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the future funding plan of the University System of Galicia for the period 2016-2020, included in the agenda of the plenary session, to be held next 22 and 23 June 2015.Additional amendment:Add to the first point:After "EU university systems" the following text:", ensuring funding for 2016 of 1.01 % of Galicia's GDP and "So, the first point would be as follows:1o.- Consensual to the universities of Galicia a new plan of financing of the less-university system of Galicia 2016.2020 in which funds will be substantially raised to its intended end.This funding plan should ensure the sustainability, sufficiency and budgetary stability of the SUG, maintaining equity, enabling the EU to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the university services, by preserving the uniqueities and specificities of each of the GAAP system.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Mrs. Burgo has the floor to make her proposal not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u280	Madam President. Very good night now, really, gentlemen. I'm very sorry to have this voice so bad and so ugly, really too, but it's the falls of summer or the air conditioning of this hemicycle, which can also be. Again we bring to this House a really important problem for Galicia. A very important problem for Galicia because universities, our university system, have basic functions so that our country can have a development towards a sustainable economy, and as the People's Party often says. The problem is that the People's Party only says this, but it does nothing to help universities really develop that role. They can't do it if they don't have adequate funding. Logically, there is no possibility of developing teaching, research, transfer, or innovation unless they have adequate funding. We're talking about public universities, so funding has to be public. That's why, because if you have to be public, because we understand that you provide a service to this society, it's not a expense, it's an investment, so you have to have public funding. Since 2011-2015, it is still developing a plan for funding the university system that made the PP after this socialist group has claimed it on many occasions, eventually brought it forward and went out unanimously of this House. The problem with this funding plan 2011-2015 is that, as we said on that occasion when it was being presented, it never had enough and needed funds so that universities could develop their role. To develop your role without luxury, no big transformations, nothing, nothing like it, just keep the high level of education, teacher and researcher that has maintained our university system in recent decades. But of course, this funding plan signed by the People's Party had a very serious decline in funding for universities. I'm telling you, the accounting, ladies and gentlemen, for 2010, in 2015, universities have 11% less funds, if we have measured it since 2009 at 14.5%. It's really less money they have, because a fundamental part of budgets, especially R & D, is not running. At least 20 or 25% are not executed, so on this occasion they cannot say that the bipartisan did the same thing. I have here the data and the bipartite in the university's R & D, reaching 80-90% funding levels. There are fewer funds here and they are not executed. But the board says without any kind of breakdown, without any objective data that has invested 2,200 million in 5 years. That's not true. It's not true, and indeed the board couldn't give any breakdown of these revenues. If you add up the stakes in the Budget of the Galician Board, you'll see that in five years you haven't reached 1,890 million. And if they had planned 2016. I mean, there's a fall, besides, it's important. There's a breach of the funding plan, too. There's a failure because -- to give them an example -- in this year 2015, the forecasts and what the Galician Union promised to universities are that they would have 423.5 million, and they have exactly 372 million. 51 million euros are missing in a year, in a year with respect to the promises made. That's not 5% of the payroll drop or much less. That's a descent from everything planned, you promised, but then as always you didn't. Universities and directors are constantly asking for more funds. The council says with that elegance that they sometimes have with the rest of the people, they say that this is normal, that the rectors have to ask. I mean, some gentlemen have nothing better than to go out in the press and ask. But of course, if they had a valid interlocutor and things had gone as they had to take themselves seriously and if they had spoken seriously in the council, the principals wouldn't have to go out in the press. They're asking for more funds and they're asking for more funds for the new funding plan that needs to be signed this year. Another basic element of the failure to comply with this financing plan is that the Union has promised that it would reach 1% of the German GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, what they arrived at was 0.65%, down by 0.8% that had the bipartite. I mean, there's an increasing fall. So absolute non-compliances. Failures that are logically noted in the work of universities. Also, Greek universities still retain a level of quality measured in international rankings that are very important. The truth is miraculous that with these levels of funding they get such important rankings. And they also get external funds, other of the cores of the board. They get external funds, ladies and gentlemen, above the average of Spanish universities, above the average, 30% as an average of the funding of universities is external. Problem, that often cannot be achieved anymore because national R & D has fallen over 60%. The European Union's funds are increasingly being requested and the business fabric of this country doesn't need me to tell them what it is. So what is needed is to take this situation with the seriousness you need, and that's why we present a non-law proposal that means consensus with universities, but actually to consent, to give serious consent, to really honestly not to say one thing and then to do another. By substantially raising funds for the financing plan as requested by the principals. A funding plan that has – this time yes – needs to maintain equity, among universities, to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of university services, to maintain a good level of R & D and research and, of course, to reach an agreement with the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego, it seems good to us to arrive at 1% next year, which was... we had to be there, but to reach 2020 at least 1.5% of Galicia's GDP; 1.5% that is below what all the developed and important countries in Europe are dedicating. Because in addition to the crisis, all the really important countries that have done so have not been to restrict university and research funds, but to make them grow, because it is precisely the university system and these activities that allow them to get out of the crisis. And also to present to the Galician Parliament the council in order to develop a debate on the entire project of the 2016-2020 funding plan, before being approved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u281	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u282	...–remended– before being approved both in the plan as a whole and all criteria for the allocation of funds in accordance with Articles 140, 141 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This would allow all groups to contribute their area size to the funding plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u284	Thank you, President. Good night, ladies. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has been condemning in this House the economic asphyxiation of our university due to a very insufficient funding of the Greek university system since Mr Feijóo's arrival in government. For that reason, Mrs Concepción Burgo, we agree with you on the need to substantially raise the funding for the financing of the Greek university system 2016-2020. It is true that last week the Secretary General of Universities, I do not doubt that the spokesperson of the People's Party himself will do so right now, qualified the plan that ends this year, the financial plan, as very positive, as it exceeded the planned funding and that he was supportive said to keep the funds on the basis of the results. The view of BNG since the plan that ends this year is that it is a failure of Mr Feijóo's university policy. It's a failure because it represents a serious cut that is causing the economic asphyxiation of our university system, cutting in severe structural funding, cutting in very serious human resources with less than 400 teachers in the last lustro, with less than 100 PAS in the last lustro, with cutting in research funding that represents less than 1,000 researchers in the last lustro and with cutting in the right to higher education with the loss of more than 5,000 university students in the last lustro. Please note that it is causing a deterioration in the quality of teaching and researcher of the Greek university system. I know that the PP will come here to say that the plan that ends this year is sufficient, flexible and consensual, but reality is quite different. The 422C program of university teachings of the last two-party government, 385.8 million. The one of the last government Feijóo 322.7 million. So in just one year, the difference is more than 63 million euros. At last week's commission, we were talking about education that the University of Compostela, the University of Vigo and the University of Coruña lost in the last luxury of order between 16 and more than 22 million euros each. With the arrival of Feijóo, the plan for financing the Greek university system also came. While funding from the university, the average of the Spanish university is 1.4% of GDP, this year the university in Greece does not reach half, 0.7%. In Germany they already exceed 2.5%, they are on their way to 2.8% Galicia, which has spent university in 2009 above 0.8%, with Feijóo arriving below the Spanish average, which is in the last place in Europe, below 0.7%. Certainly, Mr Burgo, in the annexes to the financial plan that ends this year, the People's Party, the council foresees 1.01% of GDP for the financing plan for this system. The reality is just the opposite, the reality is the cutting of professors, the cutting of students and brain drains that are calculated in the last lustro about 30,000 walk around the world creating wealth instead of creating it in our country. It's clear from the beginning, and we need to improve to remedy the serious situation and find a way out with the university. The principals all have their own interests at each university, but they all agree that the plan that ends needs to be improved. Germany by setting an example went by 2% in the crisis, to 2.5% and to get out forward reached 2.8% to create wealth based on knowledge and research. The next five years are going to be very hard on the Greek university system and they're going to need more help in consolidating research, in recovering teachers, in carrying out the reform and in recovering students. So we proposed an amendment to say that they would fulfill the promise, which they would invest this year, which the board calculated to invest this year, at least to invest it for next year, 1.01% which was what they expected. I hope... – I'm glad Mrs. Burgo says she accepts the amendment –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u285	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u286	...and I hope the People's Party does the same, too, because that's what he promised not for the coming year, for this year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u288	Thank you, President. The Greek university system is being subjected to financial precariousness and is also being intervened in its autonomy by the Galician Union, even to the extreme of being unable to perform the training and research functions that are his own. The financing of the public universities in Greece has never reached the state level, and let's not say Europeans anymore. The 2010-2015 funding plan, in addition to assuming a drastic budget cut, implies a model change with an even more mercantilist conception. I mean, it dramatically reduces structural funding and increases funding by 30% in year 2,015 by objective. What does – we see it every day in the newspapers – that the Greek universities compete with each other. It's happening to the Coruña, to the other Greek universities. Because this budget has a roof, which one university takes away from another. This perverse competitiveness becomes a clientelism that allows the Government of the Union to violate the funding plan it has set itself, without any protest from any university. But the Board has already made it clear the other day that the new plan will link a higher percentage of funds to the achievement of targets that are already in 2015 of 35%. And in the games for calls from researchers, Junta does so that there's a very high percentage left unexecuted, which in practice translates into a further cut on the funding it announces. In addition, the public administration's staff cut was used by the administrations themselves to drain their own debts, except for university. In this case, the money left over from the wages was left with them at Junta. And as for staff also at the current replacement rate in 2020, we would say: 1. Approximately 80% of IDPs over the age of 50, of which half would be over 60. And with the research support staff contracts not included in the structural frameworks, they almost disappear as a result of finalist funding for research projects also disappears. With all this, the university is already in the spotlight because it's impossible to decide and plan at least in the medium term, if there's no financial autonomy. All of this is to add direct pressure and direct instruction on recruitment of staff that prevent universities from planning and deciding on contracts according to the services they need and provide. It must be thought, ladies and gentlemen, that teaching and research are necessary for the improvement of people's lives and the progress of a country. It is also necessary to reflect on ethics in how to manage public resources and also to reflect on the responsibility of political and academic authorities to form a research framework with commitment and capacity. That's why we support this initiative, because the university is in an unsustainable economic situation and politically involved in its autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u289	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u290	Good night, everyone. I think at least we'll be able to admit in this House that the fact that a public university is forced to suspend current expenses, the payment of current expenses, is a fact of extreme gravity. And this event happened at the University of Coruña, this unexpected event happened on the 17th of this month. But it happens that this happened one day after he appeared in commission, in the Education Commission, the Secretary General of the University to analyze the University's funding plan 2011-2015. The secretary-general was saying in no way that the university funding plan had been 100% completed, but not only that, but that they had even exceeded the budget forecasts made by the Greek Government. Well, the next day, the University of Coruña was suspending current payments. AGE has repeatedly requested a report or memory on the degree of execution of the University Financing Plan 2011-2015. Today we are still waiting for him, just as the Government of Greece is preparing a new funding plan without realizing the previous funding plan. The situation is serious, this is obvious. If we refer to the financing plan itself 2011-2015, in particular to its annexes, then an investment of 0,92 % of GDP is expected to be made in 2011, up to 1,01 % in 2015. The reality is that we're at 0.7%. The reality is that if those forecasts were met, our university system would have an budget that would exceed 500 million euros. We're too far away, about 200 million euros away we're from that forecast. No one, not one single indicator of the funding of our university system resists the clarity of numbers. The degree of budgetary execution of the planned budgets already scarce, does not reach 80%. R & D spending places us at the tail of the European queue, 0.87%, compared to an average of 2% on the European average. The number of doctoral theses of going has been halved in the last five years. Student investment is EUR 800 below the average of the entire state. A decline of over 200 university teachers with a loss of about 1,000 researchers. A cut of more than 60 million euros. That's the diagnosis of official data from our university system. Last week, in addition to the illustrious appearance of the Secretary-General, the CRUE presented a report entitled Research and Knowledge Transfer in the biennium 2012-2013. If the data I have just quoted is terrible, the data that contains this report from the State Rectors Conference are, if any, more demolitioners. The amount of research projects has decreased in those two years 2011-2012 in 21.1 million euros. The amount of self-funded research projects has decreased by 60%. The revenue from research licenses decreased by 20% in two years, the number of patents dropped from 57 to 52, and the number of spins off dropped by 58%. I suppose this is what we can understand by fully fulfilling the financing plan. We understand that it's necessary from now on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u291	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u292	...subject to the evaluation of this funding plan. And we're still demanding the advisor's appearance to account for that bad degree of execution of that funding plan. That's why we also support this initiative because it seems necessary to us and because it's a question of survival, it's a question of survival for our future, not only for the future of the university system, but for the future of our country. The cuts applied at the university can drag Galicia for decades. The truth is that changing the financing model from ensuring the financial adequacy of the university through the structural funds, passing to what the government calls funding as a result was a false argument, a simple pretext for making deep cuts in the university system that is in a critical, agonic situation, and that is why we will support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u293	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Popular Group, Mr. Farinas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u294	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Burgo, nobody ever said they'd raised resources to universities. And it is clear that the economic situation with which Galicia goes also among other autonomous communities, all of them and the Spanish State, because we are at EUR 3,000 million less budget. That's evidence. And at the Galician Junta this year with eight thousand four hundred and a little million euros available for budgeting, if they're doing the necessary work and effort needed to maintain a funding plan 2011-2015. And besides, if you did, we received an autonomous community with a debt of payments on account, only payments on account of 500 million euros a year. More than the cost of university funding. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's true that later, thanks to good government management, Feijóo with the state government managed to reduce that impact. And, Mr. Vázquez, you speak of the University of Coruña, but you haven't said why you have the liquidity problems, or what you owe the claim made by the University of Coruña. And you know it claims 3.8 million euros. That one has already lost it at the High Court of Justice in Galicia. And that the 2.8 you're claiming now are also in an administrative dispute due to an interpretation error. Friend, but it has already been to the Council of Universities and Vigo and Santiago voted against this recognition. With the authority within which he has the autonomy within his autonomy of the University of Coruña, he will also have to implement his management to improve and adapt his expenses to his income. So these liquidity problems that you may have at a given time, for of course I will not make any decision ever and when you fail to dictate by the High Court of Justice. Of course I'll wait to see what they say. I don't know if you usually have another procedure with justice, but I don't. On the other hand, funding is not just a question of the Galician Union, Mrs Burgo. The state and the European Union are also involved in funding universities as you well know. And that's what I missed to hear now that if there's a Greek university system with a funding plan approved by consensus, it's due to its pressure. He says, it was the first commitment of this government to the Union to provide a stable framework for funding to universities. And it was the only autonomous community in Spain that got it, the only one. And it was this government, it wasn't anyone else, that some tried but didn't get it, unfortunately they didn't, the others did. And we're also in that scenario that I was telling you before the resources decline, we're the only autonomous community, which reduces its proximity to the funding system. The report by the Labour Commissions, I don't say so. And besides, Mrs Burgo, you also know perfectly because we're talking about it in committee, that the Rectors Conference also says the community that in financial debt with the most liquidity of all the Spanish communities. The most liquidity you have since the initial budget, Mrs Burgo, since the initial budget, the most liquidity you have. And all this to justify what you're talking about here is an analysis of the funding plan 2011-2015. But this has already been done in the committee, here we are talking about the plan that will come, a plan that we hope will be agreed again and that goes out with the negotiation that they have to have who has autonomy to manage these things, which is the university itself and the board of Galicia. The initiative you put here on the table for approval really doesn't make much sense anymore because there have already been initiatives in this Parliament in the committee twice in order to try to reach some agreement. It was impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u295	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u296	Well, it's the parliamentary game. It was impossible to agree with you. However, if it was possible to meet one of these February 2014 criteria to start marking the criteria to follow the new plan. What you present here, man, is to play a little bit with university autonomy, because you're marking what you have to include in your negotiations with the Galician Union. And you know why the secretary-general said it at the meeting of the other day, that you have on the table an instrument that has appointed your representatives in college bodies to be able to negotiate, manage and contribute everything you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u297	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u298	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, considering that they have arrived a little late, but that they will nevertheless have their instruments to bring near, take advantage of us and do them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López. Give Mrs. Burgo a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u300	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Farinas, you were so eager to make a funding plan that you voted for this parliamentary group, twice not once, twice that you didn't. In other words, they've twice refused in this plenary to make a funding plan. Look, Mr. Farinas, it's not worth saying how there's less – you say – there's less, because then there's less money for universities as well. Rule is priority, Mr. Fariñas. So maybe they should spend less money on advertising... yes, Mr. Fariñas. What you know is that all advisories have a level of money destined for impressive propaganda, and more to universities. So you tell me that then what Germany or France does, for example, is to increase spending in universities and R & D, when they are also suffering or having a crisis, as you explain? How do you explain that? Because they also had a drop in budgets, but it turns out they prioritized a fundamental expenditure that is in universities. Look, Mr. Farinas, the situation is so terrible that you've brought back the funding of universities for a decade. In constant terms today in 2015 we have the same funding as in 2005. They took you back for a decade, much more than spending, income in the Union. And look, Mr. Fariñas, the glove that is developing Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Feijó with the universities is terrible. On the one hand, income falls here, on the other hand, I don't know if you know that you say you have to look for resources outside, which turns out that in R & D in the state and the Ministry of Education, it fell over 60%. Sure, what are we looking for? What are they looking for if there's a 60% downturn? This isn't a game, Mr. Farinas, it's whether or not to survive. This country is to have the priority to invest where to invest and stop things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u301	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u302	...that they are superfluous, except for the propaganda of their own government, to invest where to invest or let this country disagree in that economic organization, in that economic model that is really what you want of low wages, low-skilled workers, low wages and competitiveness through those low wages. That's what your model leads to, our leads to a society of knowledge and a sustainable economy. I am not asking for a review of the past plan, I am asking that this House, in which we are represented all the political groups and is the representation of citizenship, debate the new funding plan. Which, by the way, they haven't done when they promised it would be in July.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u303	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u304	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-22-DSPG115.u305	Well, before we suspend, we have to suspend, just two questions: the questions to the president of the Socialist Group and the AGE Group, as well as the questions to the Government order numbers 8.7 and 8.8, will be consolidated. We'll stop the meeting until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night, thank you very much.
