ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u1	Very good morning to all and all. Welcome to this session of the Permanent Deputy on January 26, 2015. We have opened the meeting and the secretary, Mrs. Soneira Tajes, please proceed to the attendance check.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u2	Yes, Madam President. José Manuel Balsairo Orol (substituted by Isabel García Pacín). Xoese Manuel Beiras Torrado (substituted by Antón Sánchez García). Maria Concepción Burgo López (substituted by Manuel Vázquez Fernández). Jaime Castineira Broz (substituted by Carmen Pardo López). Yolanda Díaz Pérez: Yes. Maria Carmen Gallego Calvar: Yes. Juan Carlos González Santín: Yes. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas: Yes. Maria Consuelo Martínez García: Yes. José Luis Méndez Romeo: Yes. Alberto Núñez Feijóo (substituted by Agustín Baamonde Díaz). Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo: Yes. Paula Prado del Río: Yes. Pedro Puy Fraga: Yes. Marta Rodríguez Arias: Yes. Román Rodríguez González: Yes. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela (substituted by José Santiago Freire Abeijón). Miguel Ángelado Filgueira: Yes. Jesús Vázquez Abad (substituted by Cristina Romero Fernández). And we're present at the Bureau and there's quorum, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. So we begin with the development of the agenda, which, as you know, consists of a single point. Unique point.- Calls for an extraordinary full: Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of the Government of Galicia, to explain the crisis situation of the dairy sector. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of the President of Galicia, to explain the absence of answers to the problem of unemployment in Galicia. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of Mrs. Health Counsellor, to account for the collapse of the emergency services of the Greek hospitals, as well as to inform of the measures that are expected to be put in place to deal with the healing of the sick people of hepatitis C. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of Mrs. Counsellor for Environment, Transport and Infrastructure, to explain the position of the German Government in the face of the competitive disadvantage of the price of fuels in Galicia, as well as the obstacles to the return of that tribute to professional carriers. Request, two GGs. PP. of the Alternative Glaga de Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, an urgent meeting of the Permanent Deputy to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting for the presence of Mr. President of Galicia to report on the situation of collapse in the emergency services of the public hospitals of Galicia and the measures to be taken by the Board of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u4	First of all, Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, documents Nos. 31835, 31836, 31837 and 31838. And a joint request from the parliamentary groups of Alternative Left Glaga and the Nationalist Block Galego, document number 32039. The order of the debate is as follows: We will have a full debate on the four initiatives of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and a debate on the part of the joint initiative of the parliamentary groups of the Left Galician Alternative and the Galician Nationalist Block. Both debates will have the usual times in this Deputation: a round for the proponent groups for a time of ten minutes; a round of positioning at the same time; and the proponent groups will have, in addition, a round of closing for a time of five minutes. And finally, the application vote will be taken together or separately, but it seemed more appropriate to do so separately. So, if it seems to you, we would start with the first of the debates, which are the calls for an extraordinary plenary by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. And the first for the appearance of the German Government, to explain the situation of the dairy crisis; for the presence of the President of the Union, to explain the absence of responses to the problem of unemployment; they also request a full for the presence of the health adviser; and they request a full for the presence of the Environmental, Transport and Infrastructure Adviser. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of the Government of Galicia, to explain the crisis situation of the dairy sector. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of the President of Galicia, to explain the absence of answers to the problem of unemployment in Galicia. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of Mrs. Health Counsellor, to account for the collapse of the emergency services of the Greek hospitals, as well as to inform of the measures that are expected to be put in place to deal with the healing of the sick people of hepatitis C. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of Mrs. Counsellor for Environment, Transport and Infrastructure, to explain the position of the German Government in the face of the competitive disadvantage of the price of fuels in Galicia, as well as the obstacles to the return of that tribute to professional carriers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u5	So you have the floor, first of all, as a group proposing the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is already a matter of speaking in this Parliament about the disgust that the president of the Senate feels about the Legislative House. Disgusting that translates into systematic contempt and, above all, fleeing from the political responsibility to appear in the House as a citizen's representation to subject the debate, to subject to controversy their policies, their initiatives. The Government has not responded to this House for 40 days today, and it is not expected that it will do so in another for 15 days. Almost two months in which the Government runs away from any explanation about the country's problems. Even if the license is allowed, which should be nicknamed with very strong words, to filter in a medium that will try to correct parliamentary holidays. Government vacations, Executive vacations and vacations of their responsibility, not of course opposition groups, that we have to turn to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure as this debate is to try to make manifest that there are problems enough that would justify not a full extraordinary, but several over the month that we are occupied. That is what we will have here tomorrow, Mr President, not to talk about the problems affecting citizens, but only to stage, within this pre-election period, some of the problems that concern you, without, of course, before any kind of document or proposal on which you can systematically debate. Parliament is thus gradually becoming the wall of the laments of Galician society and not as a mirror of the areas of concern to citizens. We propose today four matters that justify each one of them a full and the Government's appearance; we could propose many more. We have been limited by savings of effort to the four most present in public opinion and, above all, to the opinion published over the last few weeks. Four problems self-evidently show the kind of problems that citizens suffer, the anxieties that exist to solve them, and also the lack of response to the policies of the Union. First, the health crisis. The health crisis doesn't happen because yes, not even because if it has produced as it happens inexorably every winter a flu epidemic. It is the direct consequence of four years of systematic cut-off of professional staff, four years of deterioration of care conditions, four years of reduction of health budgets. So a simple flu epidemic is enough to break the health system. Yes, the Counsellor, always so jealous, always so concerned that she does not escape or an opportunity to privatize a new public health service or to be even attentive to nepotistic interests, in this case she remains indifferent to the suffering of the citizens who are living there, who fill hospitals, and not only the consulting rooms, but even the waiting places, the corridors, etc., by making it clear how much the clinical situation has deteriorated. And I'm talking about the flu, and I could talk about the situation of hepatitis C, where the Government acts with notorious indifference after it has fled here in the last debate to offer a clear explanation. We're in front of a government that doesn't share the suffering of people. And it could add the situation also in these last few weeks, in which the pharmacies report that more and more patients do not take their medicines away from the economic difficulties arising from the new payment model. We are convinced that if the flu were not important for the Counsellor, to debate the political health situation that causes this health crisis, it will probably not be accepted today by the majority group. We propose a second theme that affects all the economies of the Greeks and the Greeks: the price of fuels. Because here we are again faced with unmet pledges from the majority group, unmet pledges from the State Administration, unmet promises from the Welsh administration. The Greek citizens are paying for more expensive fuels than the surrounding communities, and the transport professionals have not yet charged what has been denounced and sentenced by the Strasbourg Court and recognized in extremes by the Ministry of Fairy last December: the return of the health cent, which draws unequally on the carriers of Galicia. And as always in the midst of the most absolute contempt of the Government. 15 months ago, the transport sector has been asking for an interview with Mr. President of the Board, and this one, who is always so available to make cakes for the medium Spanish dishes, does not find an instant in his schedule to meet the legitimate demands of an important sector in the Greek economy. Mr. Feijóo always prefers the table of the powerful, the company of the forts who do not care about people, and less for people with problems. But it's just that, Madam Environment Advisor, he didn't even have a minute in his schedule to receive the sector. It's just that not even the Italian council specialized in the sector was called to account for this situation. And now we're watching the paradoxical situation that it's the big transport companies that are getting the health cent back, while the small companies, which are the vast majority of those in Galicia, are not perceiving those amounts, because the Tax Agency is calling for certain documentation from which it already has knowledge. And all this isn't anything. Only the return of health cents to the Greek carriers implies EUR 800 million, which have a very negative impact on the economies of these small businesses. We have set an extraordinary plan to talk about the crisis in the dairy sector, of which we have unfortunately been warning for months, with the total indifference of the Middle Rural Counsellor and, of course, with the total non-operation of the corresponding ministry. Again, the milk producers in Galicia are the ones who currently have the lowest prices in Europe, as a result of the Government's abandonment. The mechanisms that were available, and which other countries have used over the last few years to avoid the crisis resulting from the disappearance of milk quota, in Galicia are not developed, the development of the so-called "milk package". There are three months left for the disappearance of quota and ministry, which was wrong in the decree published six months ago, as we had to denounce producer organizations, but also the opposition, it was not able to change that decree, despite the fact that it is unanimous recognition of its failure. We still don't know the position of the German Government today, which is what you want, which is what you are proposing to the Ministry of Agriculture, what kind of negotiation you are proposing to avoid the disaster that is happening in the form of fines and suppression of production for so many Greek gain. And the problem – you have to remember it again – affects Galicia in a special way, as it is precisely the first milk producer in the state, and yet the Galician Union, the Counsellor, with the Olympics, has just responded to this solution. I have to remind you, and I have said our spokesperson countless times, that the farms are still out of contracts, that the ones that there are are not met, that there is no price negotiation and that the owners are going to sign what the industry is putting in front of them under the threat that their product will not be collected. It's neither guaranteed nor that collection of current production, and we're in a situation that is currently deficient as compared to costs. And in view of all this, Mr. President of the Galician Council has not yet expressed any opinion, as if the Greek milk sector were irrelevant in the economy of the primary sector of Galicia. And finally, let's consider – and I don't have time to get into this anymore, but it's also quite a subject discussed – the need for the president of the board to come up with an explanation about the situation of the labour market, where last week EPA's latest data showed the failure, – better said – of the absence of any job creation policy or any industrial policy that deserves that name. And I'm done with a data, ladies and gentlemen, because the EPA has just revealed something terrible: in terms of legislation in Galicia, only 200 new jobs have been created when we have 260,000 unemployed. It's quite an eloquent data. I expect a clear answer from the majority. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u8	Thank you, President. For our part, I support requests for extraordinary full attention to all the issues that are being dealt with, because of their importance. I'm going to start talking about everything because I think it's fundamental to being present to talk about unemployment. It's not just a problem of unemployment, as the voice of the Socialist Party said now, because it's not just the number of unemployed, it's also the number of Greeks and Greeks aged 15 to 40 who left this country and who are still marching to find a job. And it's also very important that small job creation, but that though and above being small, it's precarious. Some precarious working conditions: part-time contracts, poor wages and, as we have already talked about in this Parliament more than once, for the first time in history, there are workers and full-time workers who have to go eat to the social dining rooms and who have to ask the food or clothing banks to the food banks; families and people who work full-time are unable to cope with the payment of the energy they need in their homes and therefore to live a life that is minimally decent. So it seems very important to us that the President of the Board should present and explain, one, the lack of job creation in this country and another, the quality of that job being created, especially after we heard him applaud the double wage scale, for example, in Citroën, which impoverishs even younger people even more. Part-time contracts with less pay than the old people, that's what the Galician Union is offering our boys and girls. Also important is the precariousness in transport, not only the theme of health-skilling, which if it is returned to large companies, and we know that in addition to an impulse from Galician Union itself. But here we are talking about the autonomous, the false autonomous transport, hyper-exploited workers who should really be on the company payroll, who are hired as self-employed and who are much more difficult to achieve the return of the health-care center and defend their interests, since just as it happens in the dairy sector are the large multinationals who establish and mark the conditions for the provision of these services. We see that in all sectors, both in the dairy sector and in the transport sector, and in the industry itself, the role of the Government of Galicia is an unconditional commitment and support to the large multinationals and an extreme abandonment of the popular classes and the working classes. With regard to the health issue, not only the issue of health emergencies and their collapse, which obviously cannot be justified with something that happens every year, which is predictable, which is known in what stages it appears, that it has a development and will be at a given time based on certain climatic conditions, and is more than studied, it cannot be justified with that a collapse in hospital emergencies. The collapse comes – as the socialist spokesman well said – from four years of cuts, from four years of non-retirement of staff, from retireing doctors at the age of 65 without continuing or replacing these squares. So it's really being provoked, and it's not a mistake. The terrible thing about all this isn't that the Union is wrong, not that we have a government that doesn't know how to govern, the problem is that the government's decision is to privatize health, and leave a public health of almost charity to care for people who have no chance of paying quality health. And the deterioration of public health is therefore evident. But not only that, but also that deterioration leads to such extremes that health care is being arranged with private hospitals in exchange for nothing, without inspecting, without requiring a minimum guarantee, without requiring the deadlines to be met. For example, we have here the great negotiation that the Povervisa Hospital has, which is still on top now, is going to take advantage of the hospital and that it has to continue to fire workers and worsen the working conditions, because the Union concert, with Sergas and Povervisa, is a ruin to the hospital. Therefore, a single, exclusive policy to which the great multinationals continue to increase their profits and make life more difficult for the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why we think it is essential that the President of the Union come and explain the social and economic situation of our country. And really for my part, and already to finish, saying that what's going to happen tomorrow is a real coat of hair for the Greeks and the Greeks, a session of publicity and propaganda from the People's Party and Mr. President, where no choice is given to the opposition to really debate all these problems that are the real problems of the country, the problems that concern the Greeks and the Greeks. And, of course, that farce is a real shame and I should take out the colors of the Government. Ten minutes of intervention by the opposition and propaganda without more than the Council of Galicia, without the possibility of presenting any resolutions or proposals that help that democratic impulse, which should begin with transparency and why Mr. Feijó had explained from his friendship with Martial Dorado to many other subjects that are taking place, I say no more in the state but our country, in Galicia, of corruption of the People's Party and of embezzlement of public funds by members of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. You have the floor next by the Galego Nationalist Block Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last year the Permanent Parliament met on January 23rd, today on January 26th, at the pace that we are going next year will meet in February to decide if it is called in extraordinary plenary in January. But, well, I made this comment, ahead of time, that the Parliamentary Group of the BNG will support the requests made by the Socialist Group. We have signed the arguments given by your spokesman, Mr Méndez Romeo and also by the spokesman of the Joint Group on the health crisis, but since we are going to address this issue again at the second point of this Permanent Parliament, I will focus on the rest of the questions raised by the Socialist Group, starting with the problem of unemployment. From our point of view, the situation can't be more alarming, EPA's data is total and absolutely demolition, and they are outrightly contradicting the so-manifest discourse of the Government of the United States that Galicia is better than the state set. Whether we examine the evolution of unemployment or the evolution of occupation, or the evolution of the active population, Galicia is much worse off not only in the fourth quarter, but also in the total annual. While the state began to create jobs, Galicia 2014 closed again with destruction of net employment. The difference between what happens in the state and even precarious employment allows Galicia to make the figures. In addition to EPA data, there are other no less negative indicators: the fall in industrial production or the demographic breakdown indicating the last municipal pattern. Galicia lost more than 17,000 residents in a year and nothing less than 27,000 residents between the ages of 15 and 34. And that according to the Galician Union, it's fake that we in Galicia have a juvenile immigration problem. Now, I have to say with all sincerity that, although we are going to support this request, we disagree with the terms in which the Socialist Group makes this request. He called for the presence of the President of the Union to explain the absence of answers to the problem of unemployment, and we sincerely have to say that this is not true. Answers, you have them, you have them. Let me read to them the last one: "We warned that people who were not unemployed were unemployed in the month of December, among other things, because there will be a number of support from the central government for unemployed without benefits." That was the answer Mr. Feijó gave to the rise of unemployment recorded in December. It must be that these central government aids only benefit the unemployed, because if you don't understand why Galicia was the community where the unemployment was highest. But look, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, there are more answers: May 2014, "He despised EPA and questioned which part of the people without work want to find him." He "made it" – I insist – "questions EPA", which placed Galicia about to overcome the 300,000 unemployed, and screams as reliable data "the registered unemployment". Although I have to admit that I do not understand this answer that Mr Feijóo gave at the time, because if he now says that unemployment has risen in December because there are people who register for the aid, that means – I think – that there were people who were not registered but were indeed stopped. That same month of May left us another pearl: "It's hard to find a job if you don't show interest in getting it." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, – I insist – did give an answer. The problem with him is that there are people who have no interest in finding work, and so we could go on. For example, if we come back in February 2011 Mr. Feijóo said, "I have almost no competence to fight unemployment." I don't know if what he really meant is that he had no competence to fight unemployment, because if the problem is that he has no competence, I don't know why he hasn't claimed any. So answers, they speak, they have them, but unfortunately the situation is dramatic and it's not to joke about it. On many occasions we have denounced that the policies being practised are turning Galicia into an economic and people's desert, and unfortunately the data are giving us reason. We therefore believe that there are sufficient reasons for this urgent appearance of the President of the Union to take place. There are also urgent reasons for the advisor to come up with an explanation of the competitive disadvantage at the price of the Galician fuel. There's a sharp drop in oil prices, but this drop has a far smaller impact on consumers, especially in Galicia. While in most of Spain's service stations, by setting an example, recently the price of diesel dropped from the symbolic barrier of the euro, in Galicia the service stations where this could happen could be counted on one's fingers. And look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group: the BNG insists on the need to establish a Welsh electric tariff; we defend it in this Parliament on various occasions. A tariff that allows Galicia to derive benefits from its specialization in electricity generation by lowering the tariff for families and businesses. And the answer from the German Government was that it's a turrullo defending one rate for Galicia, another for La Rioja and another for Madrid. The answer from the German Government was that this claim is against the unity of the market. However, in Galicia we have a refinery, we pay more for the fuels, but this does not seem to affect the unity of the market. The Galician Competition Council has pointed out that Galicia is the peninsular community at the highest price per litre of diesel oil. And according to a study by the Ministry of Industry itself in August 2014, of the 50 most expensive state gas stations to refuel diesel, forty-four nothing less than they are in Galicia. So we also consider it necessary for the German Government to explain its position and clarify whether it will take any action. In fact, the BNG Parliamentary Group has registered various initiatives on this issue this month. And finally, we believe that the German Government must also come to explain the crisis situation in the dairy sector. Finally, it seems fortunately that there will not be a problem of overproduction, but the mismanagement of the Ministry and the Galician Union itself, creating the expectation that by the end of the year there could be an excess of quota with the corresponding sanctions, has caused serious prejudice to the producer sector. There were livestock that sacrificed or dried cows; there were livestock that had to owe themselves even more to buy quota, precisely when the quota system was finished on April 1st; there were companies that took withholding taxes on producers or that demanded them goods. It is therefore necessary to impose responsibilities for this evil management. But above all, we are concerned about the implications for the sector of the so-called'milk package', where the central government is placing itself openly in favour of the interests of the industry, with the shut-up by the Government of Greece in response. The draft of the new decree does not establish as mandatory the role of the mediator in the event of differences between companies and producers, no real mechanism is established for real price negotiation and ensuring a decent price for the producer to ensure the coverage of production costs, no effective sanctioning regime is provided, the open door to which contracts may last less than twelve months if there is agreement for this between the two parties; something that in practice has been transformed into a tool of pressure by companies that condition the contract signature so that the payees are allowed to host to this system. As a result, for example, while contracts of up to five years are signed in France, the average duration of contracts in the whole of the State is less than six months, and 87% of contracts are shorter than the 12 reference months which lay down the rules. We are therefore concerned about the impact of this situation in a context of uncertainty, as caused by the end of the quota system. And I want to remember that we're talking about a strategic sector for the maintenance of our rural environment, a sector where the competitions are rooted in Galicia, and we still don't know the position of the German Government, and what questions is being raised by the German Government at the table. The German Government seems to be acting on this subject as a mere spectator. We therefore also believe that there are sufficient important and urgent reasons for this appearance to take place and therefore I reiterate our support for these requests on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative to Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. I would like to begin this Permanent Deputy because I welcome without a doubt the success of the Syriza coalition that was achieved yesterday in Greece, because it is not less and surely to frame the debate we have here today on issues of relevance in our country and, above all, on issues of relevance because they have to do with the model of austerity that is being built by the People's Party and the Economic Right, which substantially coincides with the model of the European Union that is being built. So that greeting to Greece and Syriza. But also, Madam President, make a first critique. It seems that we have been able to account for or account for the importance of the themes that are of interest here today, first of all, to the Group of the Party of Socialists of Galicia and then to the groups of the BNG and the Alternative Glaga de Left, if we measure it by the time we dedicate to it, Madam President, surely the conclusion is that the People's Party cares little about what is happening in our country. It is inconceivable that this debate is accumulating, and it is accumulating – I insist – in deep themes to resolve in just ten minutes of time, that I say again that they cry to heaven or reveal that they have little interest in what is happening in Galicia. There's hardly any time to be able to deal with these issues rigorously, but it certainly gives a certain sadness to see that even the forms are not maintained. Today is January 26th, so much so that it was claimed about January's parliamentary vacations, well, because little less than this is a scene to tell us that at the end of the month you remember that we have urged different audiences and requests for full-time – I insist – for serious themes of our country. I will focus on the Socialist Party's interest in full attendance in its requests, in advance of Mr Méndez's request that, of course, we will vote in favour of them, especially because we are in the face of a situation that we can without a doubt address the question of "social emergency". Social emergency, first of all, when we talk about the health crisis that our country is experiencing and that is also living the whole state; a health crisis that is a consequence of the policies that the People's Party is tabling. I will only speak on this occasion about what has to do with hepatitis C that asks the Socialist Party, because then we will defend the debate about the collapse of the emergencies. But if you denounce that the policy that the People's Party is pursuing, that it has the march or the façade of the interests of the great pharmaceutical industries, these large lobbys, which, in addition to the action of the new Minister of Health, have already been incorporated into the Ministry's own Committee of Experts, and I do not have time to crumble it, that if all and every one of the members who has appointed Mr Alonso, without any doubt, are high representatives of pharmaceutical interests, of the laboratories, which should of course be not only preserving, but also fighting someone as relevant as a Minister of Health. Indeed, with regard to hepatitis C, give some data: the Gilead investment fund – as you know – bought another company for nothing more and nothing less than EUR 11,000 million, which wants to quickly re-establish the cost or blackmailing directly, through the sick and the sick, the sick, the population, the citizenry; ultimately, putting the health ministry itself in check and also the health counsellor in Galicia, who we don't know yet what it's going to do, or what he's going to do to address the situation we're living in. To say that this investment fund – which is interesting to know – is composed of such relevant companies and of both related to health care as is Bankia, BBVA, Index or even Endesa, as linked to health as this business world, which, of course, reveals what is happening with the interests or fundamental elements of citizenship. They actually bought a patent, which was just a molecule, which doesn't incorporate anything new, and that requires the Health Council and demands the Ministry of Health to solve this strong problem about what's going on with hepatitis C. Why? Well, indeed, because the cost of production of this product is being accommodated by the ministry of EUR 25,000 per treatment, the reason of EUR 300 for each pill, of course, is indefensible, taking into account the cost of production of that product and taking into account – I insist – the blackmail to which they are submitting the Ministry of Health and the opacity of the findings of this medicine. Of course, it would be convenient for the health adviser to explain to us what she's planning to do in our country, which we have according to the different data we handle between 400,000 and 900,000 people affected. But it would also be relevant to know whether the People's Party is willing to make substantial elements that are asking for doctrine to be fulfilled. Elements as relevant as, for example, that we have knowledge of the information about the results that this investment fund has about that molecule; they're not public, we don't know if we're actually in the face of a miracle drug or not, we don't know what's going on. Even those protocols that are not available today, the optional ones and the optional ones, so that they can be dispensed, such as to whom, to what extent this medicine will be granted to patients. And of course also, because the creation of an economic fund and its own in autonomy, in our case in Galicia, just to be able to supply this medicine. But also to talk about relevant issues that are collected in the World Health Organization itself, which is urging, as you have certainly done in India, that is really the expropriation of the patent in these cases that we are talking about health emergencies. So it's a situation of extreme gravity, which they're asking for and which is already collected by the public health defence associations themselves in our country, and we'd really like to know what the People's Party has planned to do to address the situation that the patients, the patients are experiencing, and above all to alleviate the blackmail they're subjecting us to. With regard to the second theme that the PSdEG-PSOE calls for, where it meets the requests for attendance, for it is nothing more and nothing less than that false story built by the People's Party about that unemployment figures, unemployment rates or even the socio-laborative situation in Galicia is better than that of the state as a whole. That's what we know, and we saw it saying, it's not like that. The average increase in unemployment in relation to the state average is dissipated in Galicia and even in the destruction of employment – speaking in terms of the average – but the most serious is that the last quarter of the EPA is pointing out elements that immediately question the policies practised by the People's Party, which are policies based substantially on the demolition, the destruction of employment, the economic exile of our country's boys and girls, the absolute precariousness of the scarce work we have, the disappearance of industrial employment and, above all, the consolidation of a poverty-based model. And I'm going to give you a data that reflects exactly the fourth quarter of the EPA, and that's that you're telling us that exactly 177,543 people hired in Galicia, 18.3% of the total, get -- look at -- the amount of 1,872 euros per year, i.e. the amount of 170 euros gross per month. We assume that this is the model of job creation, the social model that posts and defends the People's Party. That's what EPA is saying in the last quarter. But it's also tremendous the data that marks the EPA itself, which places the stops and stops in Galicia above 263,000 people, but also marks a terriblely negative data in relation to the state averages, which is that we have lost nothing more and nothing less than 20,000 active people less. I suppose for the People's Party because this is great and they'll keep telling us that false story that they're creating jobs, and besides, as Mrs. Fatima Bañez said, "they're creating quality jobs." Of course, of course, the argumentary of the People's Party is tremendous, not only what Mrs Fatima Báñez says, but we could quote, for example, that great explanation that the vice president of the Government gave us, saying that regarding the CIS data, because indeed the only thing that happens is that the CIS is a presenceal survey and you are going to do that poll in the morning, which is when the stops and stops in the houses. Of course, this is what we've never heard until today. So it's unfortunate to deny the story you're building...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u14	... – Already finished – the People's Party. And one last question, Madam President, about fuel. Indeed, the highest prices of the entire state, with its own refinery, remaining with the environmental effects on the city of Coruña, but a substantial element of what it has to do with the carriers, which we demand to be received as they are urging, but to quote that in fact only 2% of those who claimed health claims have been returned, and today 80% have not returned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u15	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u16	And finally – and finished – about the milk package and what's going on with the price of milk, again selling under production, please tell us what you've planned to do the advisor in our country, because we haven't heard anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Mr Puy has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u18	Yes, we're celebrating a Permanent Deputy. As surely your lordships know, the Permanent Parliament is a body provided for in the Constitution of virtually all democratic countries, countries of parliamentary representative democracy, to ensure by the powers of the House plenary, of the House as a whole, in non-regular periods, which are between sessions or when there is an election call. Therefore, the Permanent Deputy is neither to exercise control, does not ask questions, here is not the Government to answer, nor does it question the Government, although it is true that even the doctrine recognizes that it is usually used by the opposition as a means of advertising certain initiatives and certain concerns. We therefore address this debate as what it is, as a debate to see whether it is convenient or not in the non-ordinary period to convene a plenary, in this case four plenarys, which is what the Socialist Party calls for on different issues. I would like to need that this obviously does not imply that we are on vacation – at least I think the People's Group is not — or that the Government is in relation to the functions of control. I would like to remind the Socialist Spokesman that it is not 40 days for the Government to come in this House. On December 30 – you may not have found out, I don't know why – the Director General of Justice and the Director General of Local Administration appeared in this Chamber, and a few days before the Technical Secretary General of Education, Culture and Language Policy, as well as the Directors General of Agricultural Production and Conservation of Nature. Which gives us about half the time you said the Government has not come to this House. He also said that the president is disgusted by coming to this House, which is even more surprising when he comes tomorrow. It will, by the way, come to an issue that now ceases to be of interest, but of what you have asked for seven calls, on issues related to the issues to be addressed by the President tomorrow. And he also does it because of the model that you yourselves have asked for and which is the same model that you are asking for now. Probably, I don't know if you finally accept any of these requests for appearances in an extraordinary plenary, or you don't like them either because they can't present motions for resolutions. In any event, this Permanent Deputy was convened within the usual time limit. The average time the opposition groups were ruling was eleven days, and the Block and AGE filed a petition just 11 days ago for Permanent Deputy. So we're in the usual deadlines. Logically, I'm not going to get into the bottom of this because – I insist – this is not the moment of the debate, if I want to make some details. Well, he drew attention to what they wanted to call an extraordinary full-time at the very moment when employment is recovering; at a time when there is more employment, 430,000 jobs in Spain; less unemployment, 480,000 less unemployment; 96% of jobs are created in the private sector and 4% in public administrations; and there is more stability in recruitment. And at the same time, we are creating jobs with growth rates that exceed GDP's own, which is unusual and which is very remarkable. And in economic matters, the wind blows in favour, we are in a decision by the European Central Bank that will favour credit, tourism and exports; we are at a time when European funds will enable investment to be strengthened – this year public administrations already invest more than the previous year – and we are talking about lowering the cost of financing and there will be more income available as a result of the government's tax reduction. And that's why they're creating jobs at important rates. On the other hand, the Junta – which is not on vacation – on January 8th approved a EUR 45 million package to improve the formation of approximately 100,000 possible candidates, 100,000 people; it has just signed a relevant social dialogue agreement on January 14th with the unions and employers, precisely to meet long-term unemployed; it has just published in the Official Journal of Galicia the call of employment workers 2015-2016. And all of this leads us to say that the presumption that there is passiveness of the Union is not true, that things are improving – not so in the last quarter, which is true – but which makes us think that we are optimistic. And, of course, on these decisions of the Government we are going to debate in the ordinary period, and it seems that it is not with this necessary and urgent data to convene by that procedure a full of urgency. Pearls on EPA are all of them. I would recommend to the Block spokesman simply to look at the comments that have been made since his organization of the evolution of EPA in some Greek city, because they're very similar to what you just said. I, logically, will not contribute to that pearl roller on the usual instruments of work in the economic world. As far as the dairy sector is concerned, neither does what you say in the petition is supported. The Block spokesperson specifically said that there seemed to be no problem of overproduction, that was one of the issues you were raising. Fortunately there wasn't, among other things, because the Board acted responsibly. A Union that is trying by all means to empower the owners by creating instruments such as the Galician Milky Way Observatory itself and inspecting contracts. And empower them to have a negotiating capacity that allows prices to be more appropriate to the real cost of production. In any case, about the dairy sector, my attention is to ask for a full urgency when these days the groups are talking to the Union of Agricultural Unions. My group met on January 20 with the Agrarian Unions union and, according to the press reports, with all the other groups, and this week we have thought, it's already agreed, a new meeting. And the union itself called for a joint political agreement before the milk package, according to the information published. So I think it seems more reasonable to wait for these negotiations to culminate, which are, among other things, leading agricultural unions like Agricultural Unions, at the request of the same union, and not to debate it in an extraordinary plenary. On the prices of fuels, I think we have just had a debate in the budgets on which two questions were made clear on this tax. The first is that the return will be made in accordance with the European judgment, and it is clearly something that assumes the state itself and that is a state competence. So we're going to wait to see how the state works, which is what it has to do with the return. With regard to Junta, after commissioning a report to the Galician Competition Council, which has made it clear that the difference is not in the health-care center which applies in practice to the whole of the Spanish State, but in the prices that apply gas stations for a lack of competition, which is leading to giving new opening licences and to encouraging more competition, I want to remember that in the full budget law a total exemption is published to the return of 100 percent of the excise duty on hydrocarbons to all carriers, and, of course, not only to carriers, but also to the primary sector. This tribute does not apply to tractor gas oil, to fishing boats or to homes when it comes to heating gas oil. So it also seems that it is not urgent when this measure has just been taken, because to talk about something the Government is already acting on, it has already taken actions, some important actions, because this has a tax cost of about 19 million euros. So it doesn't seem right to call an emergency full. With regard to the health issue, it is true that the care of patients both urgent and programmed in Galicia, as in the whole of Spain, is perfectly guaranteed. At this time of year – like every year – there is a greater intensity in services – as we all know – due to the flu processes, and this year it was anticipated and also made it with a special virulence because there was a particular incidence of AH3 strain viruses, which are different from those that circulated in previous stages. And the same problem that the Galician Health Service is having others, for example, that of Asturias without going further, because the incidence was particularly intense in the northwest. The Galego Health Service and professionals are making a great effort on the part of all to care for patients with the highest normality possible. Now, it's also true that these peaks have brought up some undeniable disorders that need to work for correction and those on which the president himself apologized. Obviously, Junta has a firm commitment to health. Here is the expansion of emergencies at the CHUAC, the construction of the new public hospital in Vigo with more capacity, the provision of contract instruments, among others, at the new hospital in Lugo and 88 million approved at the last board of directors. Similarly, Junta is working with technical criteria to ensure that all patients with hepatitis C have access to the medication they need according to the criteria of homogeneity and equity of access to new antivirals, ensuring that those who meet the clinical criteria, strictly clinical, exclusively clinical, receive this medication. Last-generation medicine, by the way, that Spain is a pioneer in its introduction with public funding around the European Union. But it is also true that the perception of the user and even the perceptions transmitted by opposition groups is respectable and varies logically from place to place, time and day. And we are very aware that the perception of emergency service users can generate some anxiety. So we have no drawback in talking as soon as possible about emergency care, how to guarantee it, how primary care devices, CAP and hospital services work. And, therefore, we have no drawback in tomorrow that even the councillor comes to this House, taking advantage of what is called a full extraordinary call for the President to explain to us both what affects the Emergency Management Service and what affects the treatment of hepatitis C patients. We do not therefore have any drawback, if you consider that this attendance cannot wait for the first plenary we have on a regular basis, to take advantage of the procedure which the Presidency and Bureau of the House consider appropriate for tomorrow's health advisor to speak about Emergency Services and other hepatitis C treatments. And I mean, this makes it clear that the president, who will appear tomorrow, won't hide, nor does the government hide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u19	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u20	You've been saying for a week that the president is coming for something that you've asked him several times to come, to hide that you don't want to talk about health. Well, we are willing to accept – I insist – the request of the Health Counsellor to attend and materialize it in the full call for tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. Close round, Mr. Méndez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u22	Madam President, after this change of historical direction that the majority group has just made, the proposed group logically accepts this attendance for tomorrow, and we also appreciate that there is sensitivity to at least on such a serious subject. Mr. Puy, you set me up to discuss a lot of subjects, but I don't want to give up on the subjects I brought in, I just make her a precision. This group in which there is legislation has demanded the presence of Mr. President unnecessarily, that is what there is. I mean, in other words: here according to the majority group, it should be unique and exclusively what interests the majority group, verbi gratis, what interests the government. This is the situation of Parliament. Some punctuations, Mr. Puy, about the milk problem. Of course there have been negotiations for many months, there have been negotiations since the Government of Madrid passed a bad decree by transferring it to the European milk package and which has not been successful. And for the past six months, there have been open negotiations, the problem is that there are no results, time is moving forward and the owners need a framework for the future, especially because the price they're receiving in Galicia is one of the lowest in Europe. You talk to me, Mr. Puy, about the transporters' problem. Look, the Welsh carriers are discriminated against, first, because, say what you say, the Greek health cent is exactly the triple that the health cent in Castela-Leon; therefore, there is already a price difference a priori. But secondly, because you rejected this group's proposal when it was discussed here to set a three-month deadline for return to carriers, and they are the Greek carriers, precisely because they are small companies, the most discriminated against. And in health care I just have to give you a very indicative data – which no public system defender says, is saying the employer of the private sector –: according to low public health investment increases the growth of the private sector in Spain. I mean, it's acting like communicating vessels, it's draining public sector health care to be offered by the private sector in the form of more private insurance policies, in the form of more private attention. And that data is published and it's indisputable. Ladies and gentlemen, if we go back to EPA, it's that the latest data from EPA is not that they're bad, they're four times worse than the state average, one of the worst rates of Spain's activity. In the busy, again the worst data of Spain and again with reverse tendency to the Spanish average, and so on. I mean, of course, there's a differential situation here that all the good prognosis you just reported cannot be corrected. In short, we're in a situation where the Government is trying to figure out as little as possible and above all, it's trying to act with opacity. Look at you, Mr. Puy: The German Government invested 25 million euros in advertising and propagating, not in improving the care of patients with influenza or hepatitis. About 25 million in advertising and propaganda! And, of course, this leads to coldly considering the dead who have occurred as a result of these diseases, and we comment on it as a statistical data, as if it were something inevitable against which we cannot add new means of action. Mr. Puy, this group, which I would like to thank at least for the acceptance of one of the points we have raised, has to continue to regret that the Greek Government has always had a point of self-comprehension in the analysis of the Greek reality and, above all, a systematic disregard of the opposition proposals, which, in short, explains that they spend so many weeks, so many months, four months virtually a year, in which the Government runs away from the first obligation in a democratic system, which is to render accounts, explain and submit to the scrutiny of those who have been elected precisely for that task of control. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. GG request. PP. of the Alternative Glaga de Left and the Nationalist Block Galego of an urgent meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting for the presence of Mr. President of Galicia, to report on the situation of collapse in the emergency services of the public hospitals of Galicia and the measures to be taken by the Board of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u24	We are now debating the second point, which is the call for an extraordinary full-fledged call by the parliamentary groups of the Alternative Left Galician Nationalist Block and the Galego Nationalist Block for the presence of the President of the Union. We started with the turn of the proponent groups in time to split. You have the floor, first of all, the representative of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The AGE and BNG groups request the presence of the President of the Board to report the collapse of the Emergency Services and the measures to be taken. So the difference between the Socialist Group, we ask that the president be brought in and not the advisor. That is why we maintain this request for debate and for a vote, because we also believe that we simplify our work. Tomorrow Mr Feijóo will appear to speak, well, to report on the measures of democratic impulse – we understand that it was to explain the scandals of corruption – and, in passing, to explain also the collapse recorded in the health emergencies. And we believe that the president of the Union should be present for two reasons: First, because the situation was so shocking that we believe that we should explain it to the highest level. After all, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera is a decision counselor to Mr. Feijóo, and Mr. Feijóo has decided to keep her despite all that is raining. And besides, Mr. Feijóo has always flagged his alleged good health management, even though the beneficiaries of this alleged good management are private companies, which vampire public health, and are not exactly the users, who have to suffer embarrassing situations like those that have been given in these months of December and January. And the second reason is that it's not enough to apologize. In politics, we have to explain and assume responsibilities, especially when those excuses are not sincere, but when, before asking for those warm excuses, what the German Government has done, as always, was to blame others. The blame was on the flu for delaying three weeks, and without warning, you must be cursed! It was the patient's fault for not getting vaccinated or for coming to the E.R. without need, you have to be undisciplined! Even the counselor insulted the dignity of the patients saying that everything worked as a miracle, that there was only one problem of comfort. "The quality of care received by patients in emergency services was very high, there was nothing lacking to care for the patients." Finally, for the lady councillor, that the waiting rooms were stacked, the corridors full of patients in padillas, in chairs or standing, that the patients had to wait six hours to be cared for or fifteen hours to go up to the plant, that they had to wait hours to be admitted to the emergency boxes, or that some of them were entered into inappropriate plants where pathologies were mixed, that the optionals had to attend them in the corridors, that the patients were looking at the most basic rights to dignity and privacy, for the Counsellor – I insist – all this is reduced to a problem of comfort. The fact that professionals had to develop their activity in conditions of overload, pressure and unacceptable stress, conditions that increase the risk of making mistakes, means for the lady who advises a very high quality of care. And, of course, the Counsellor denies that this situation has nothing to do with the cuts. That at today's time they're kept closed about 300 beds, that there's also a significant number of locked beds, that the replacement rates don't cover staff needs, that doctors themselves report that there's even a shortage of basic material like bettings or nebulizing masks, of course, all of this has nothing to do with cuts and has nothing to do with the situation of collapse, crisis experienced in the emergencies. We therefore reiterate the request that the President of the Union be brought before us to give explanations and, taking into account the more rational reasons for the management of the morning plenary I have just given, we are convinced that the People's Group will also vote in favour of this request. Thank you very much and, for my part, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. You have the word for Alternative Left Galeg to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, I am reproducing all the wording that Mr Jorquera has now made, especially because every time we are faced with a structural problem in our country, it would be appropriate for the President of the Galician Council, at the most responsible, to explain what is happening in the Greek Health System. For what we saw justly in this winter start-up season is just how it was collapsed, as if it really put the Greek health system itself in check due to an advance, Mr. Santalices, nothing more and nothing less than a flu. I mean, what has really materialized these days is the failure of the health policy of the Galician Union. It's a failure that has already come from a distance and brings about the policy of personnel cuts, the policy of material cuts, the policy of privatization and the policy of closing beds in each and every one of the hospitals in the Greek health network. It would be convenient, and I suppose you will already exercise as a spokesman Mr. Santalices, that the People's Party had requested or exercised right now the same as Mr. Santalices had asked when he ruled the bipartisan. And it would be convenient for the citizens and citizens of this country to know with absolute transparency what is the real waiting list we have in our country, what Mr. Santalices was asking for because it was finished today. That is, any citizen or any Greek citizen on the Sergas website might know exactly what the real situation on the waiting lists is, which is the best saved secret. We are not able to understand or achieve, although we know it, what is the real scope of it, and it is the double of what is really marking the Government of the People's Party. But if you give some data, Mr. Santalices. Look, the problem we're living in this Christmas and this winter is just these variations in the policy of cuts of the People's Party, variations that are extreme. In what? In staff we have over 2,000 professionals out of the healthcare network; we have inexplicable forced retirements in our country's optional and optional. In the state media, so much so that they assume on the T-shirt that they manage very well, indeed, we already have the ranking, the third as well as in privatizations, below the queue, of closing beds in the state average; exactly the state average is at –2.9%, and Galicia is –I insist – at the third place below, at –4.9%. We also have, Mr. Santalices, a budgetary loss which is ideological, a budget cut since you rule around 500 million euros and nothing but in health care. And we actually have staff costs that don't fit the state averages. But if some reflections on the model they're building. This was before the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Puy, for example, for the CHUAC. Indeed, it is a good example of the CHUAC. We have magnificent emergency facilities that have gone from 400 square meters to 4,000 square meters and, indeed, with a cutting policy that makes it absolutely impossible not only to care for health emergencies, but also comes from that systematic closure of Abente Lago, for example, in the city of Coruña. But we could go by reporting the health center to see, for example, that at Ferrol Naval Hospital the second floor is exactly closed, just as since the day less one has been inaugurated. You took the photo of the advisor for the next day to close that plant quickly. But we could – I insist – go to the rest of the centers or, for example, see the serious inequality in our country in caring for the health area in which one lives. For example, a citizen or a citizen who lives in southern Galicia or in the Coruña district has a poorer health benefit than elsewhere. And I'm speaking because the healthcare media in Vigo and around are... – Yes, Mr. Santalices, I have the data for professionals as well as you –...carried out in the measurements of the Galician ensemble. But, for example, it's indecent that they keep the Povervisa agreement, when Povervisa is on an average waiting list of 183 days, and you despite everything that's going on awarding Povervisa to continue agreeing with it. And not only that, is that we'd like to know why you're still routinely cutting, and not just cutting, and why we don't put the health system into full performance: that the health system works for twenty-four hours a day, that is, that consultations, that tests of all kinds of radiological, that the surgeons and others work all day, like, for example, it was done in the bipartite. I mean, why can't we be operating on people, on human beings who need it in the evenings or in other hours like you are trying not to do exactly for spending policy? That's right, resulting in private, because what he did without a doubt or what he intends to do the Health Insurance Benefit Act is justly that his friends, those of the rotational doors, have big benefits on the private network. So, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u28	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u29	... – and I finish now – what we have is a collapse of emergencies which is justly evidenced by the policy of cutting and attacking the public health of the People's Party. And finished as Mr. Jorquera began: we believe they are more than enough reasons to maintain our request and, of course, to be Mr. President of the Council of Galicia tomorrow – we have no drawback – that would respond to everything that is happening in the public health of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u31	Thank you, President. Well, for my part, I support the President's request to speak about health and the collapse of the emergencies. Because all of this, everything that's happening, including the collapse of the emergencies, is not the fault of the flu, it's the fault of the people's health policy, which has been marking the pattern for all these years to get to where we're coming from. I said this more than once in both the Health Committee and the Plenary: the cuts in primary care lead to the deterioration of the entire health chain. A poor primary care leads us to a collapse of emergencies and leads us to a hospital collapse; it leads to diseases that could be treated at first become complicated and ultimately ended up in the hands of specialists and thus exacerbating health care. So those cuts introduced and that privatization policy are consciously deteriorating, and it's not a cost issue, because they spend more on deteriorating public health because they really want to privatize public health. So that's your policy. It's not random or it's a matter of flu or anything, it's a matter of setting the way for these problems to happen, to cause deterioration, and the patients themselves have to go to another hospital because public health is dismantled. Since the replacement rates, which have left hospitals without personnel, they are in permanent minimum services, and then we obviously have strikes as in the Mexoeiro or as in the Barco Hospital, where the doctor said, "We can't be a single emergency doctor because we don't give it." And those are the clippings, and that's what really happens. But you guys don't stay there and they already announce that they're going to make health worse. And here comes the law of mutuals, all privatizing and a public health of grief. But it also influences all economic policy, because we have a population in 2014 and now in the worst-nourished 2015 that lives in worse environmental conditions in their homes and, therefore, more likely to take infections because it is immunologically more depressed. Therefore, all their politics leads to this kind of situation. But you also take advantage of it so that that little personal person who has left work in public health, after four years of not practically replacing staff, works on terms of slave exploitation. You are the kings of labor exploitation with these contracts via pool of a day, two days, three days, five at most, who are chained together with one another and who have no right to rest or dismissal. That's stealing from the working people, and you're stealing from the working people by setting up conditions that none or almost none, just the most exploiters, private entrepreneurs dare to impose, while the Union imposes those conditions. So we add up because we have to explain all this, but we also have to explain whether it's done or not that Sergas is doing a follow-up to those people who have to give up their drug treatment so they can't take it. But also about those cuts in the rehabilitation service, which everything is sent to the private, because a person after a surgical intervention has to do an immediate rehabilitation in Sergas takes months, and that deteriorates and complicates people's rehabilitation. We therefore join this initiative. And I would also like to see that on that initiative, for example, the People's Party had explained why Vigo was born a small private hospital, why Vigo's population will be cared for by two private hospitals and why while Vigo's private public hospital, which should be public, small birth, Povervisa is given permission to expand beds and nevertheless fire workers, because the concert does not bring her patients. I mean, this is health corruption and you have no other word. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Just one incisus, I would ask you to start this new period with cordiality and here nobody steals anyone, here we are Members and Members who are working, and I would like you to use expressions that we can all understand that there is a cordiality, and I think that of "robbering" remains in this Permanent Deputy. Mrs. Gallego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the other opposition groups for their favourable position on the issues we have discussed at the previous point, because my spokesman for the unexpected joy of the approval of the health adviser's appearance forgot to do so and I wanted to do it on his behalf. And then in this same sense, we are going to support the request made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the BNG of the presence of the President of the Union to explain the health chaos, which also corresponds to his support for the requests made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the previous point. And I would like to begin by saying that this acceptance by the People's Group of the presence of the health adviser in the morning is obviously driven by political pressure from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we have been exercising throughout January despite the fact that the People's Party has prevented the holding of sessions in this Parliament in order to be able to deal with the problems affecting citizenship. Political pressure which is also true that has been exercised by the other opposition and pressure groups and denunciations that have also been exercised by health professionals, who have at all times been reporting the situation of collapse and health chaos that has occurred, which is occurring in these winter months in Galicia, in the Welsh health care. And I would like to express two things: the first, the delivery, the professionalism and the volunteerism of the health personnel working in public health in Galicia, who with this delivery, with this professionalism and this volunteerism in many cases begged for the lack of political management of the health care of the Government of Galicia; and also for the exemplary behaviour and patience of the patients, of the sick people who approached the collapsed emergency services, who had been waiting for days in absolutely inhuman conditions, that nothing had to do with the lack of comfort that the Mrs. Health Counsellor spoke about. And, of course, we do not repair these situations with the forgiveness of President Feijóo, we repair these situations with explanations, with the assumption of political responsibilities that we hope will be given tomorrow by the advisor and changing Galician health policy. Because, look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this situation of collapse and health damage is not given either because there is a flu, that there is every winter, or because sick people are irresponsible and they are not vaccinated – by the way, you've cut half the vaccine budget – or because healthcare professionals go away from vacations. Those aren't the reasons for this collapse and this health chaos. The reasons for this collapse and this health chaos that occurs at a time when a small problem is evidence of reality are those of the policy of cuts you saw by the government Feijóo, President Feijóo since he arrived in Junta. The reasons are highlighted in the 4,000 places that have been vacant in recent years, with forced and massive retirements at age 65; by not incorporating anyone with a public job offer in the public health system; by having only a 3% replacement rate, by hiring one person for every 28 who retires; by getting up to twenty-six contracts in a single month for one person, in a practice that is inescapable to anyone and that makes it impossible to provide a quality service; by nearly half of the medical specialists have no fixed place, and who have been in chains for six years, with an average of four contracts in the last few years; by refusing you all and every one of the requests for the extension of doctors who reach the age of 65; by denying at the same time the new physicians to replace the retirees; by which the Sergas service is currently needed to hire as much as one doctor for each health care system; by using the retirement system, we are able to return the new physicians to the retirement system. He spoke of the spokesperson for the CHUAC Enlargement People's Group. Well, the CHUAC, as the spokeswoman of AGE also pointed out, is the paradigmatic example. A university hospital that has just been reformed and has such a lack of personnel and space in the rest of the centre that makes it work in terms employed by the staff of this center as a "campaign hospital." But it is not only the CHUAC, it is the CHUAC, it is the Mexoeiro, it is the hospital of Ourense, where they are giving themselves high fears forced by the hospital administration – by the way, Mr Feijóo's family – and the situation in each of the health centers in Galicia is absolutely chaotic – I insist –. And the consequences of this chaos and this collapse will suffer over time, suffer from health professionals, who are increasingly discouraged to do their work, and suffer, of course, from the patients, who have less and less quality attention. These political decisions made in recent years, with budget cuts, staff cuts, non-retirement of retirements, non-replacement of sick leave or vacations, are those that lead to a simple flu causing such chaos in the country. So tomorrow we wait for the health advisor to explain and assume his responsibilities. This is not the first time since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have asked the Health Counsellor to stop being it. We hope that the president of the board will act as president of the board, withdraw those who are not doing their job well and begin to develop another health policy in which he is left with legislation to prevent situations like this winter from happening again. Because while health care workers who lack public health are not supported, they cannot be provided in the conditions of comfort and quality that citizenship demands today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Mr Santalices has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. I think we've just reached the conclusion of a plenary so that the Health Counsellor will appear. They made this proposal to you, and you as spokesperson have already accepted this proposal to talk about hospital emergencies and hepatitis. So we're in the presence a little bit deeper than just talking about hospital emergencies; both things worry the population. And I thought that this point would no longer be discussed, because the Government's appearance is approved, and it's almost like we discussed this point. Well, but if it's about what we're talking about, we can keep talking about it. He's going to appear the president, and I understand that to attend and talk about health I think it's more appropriate than the health advisor's. I know that the president of the Health Board knows a lot, a lot, but I understand that the Health Counsellor is more up-to-date on this subject and, therefore, I think it's more interesting that the Health Counsellor comes up with. And I was now reviewing, and I don't remember previous steps similar to these. I have been thinking, remembering, and, Mr. Méndez Romeo, historical change is taking place, because it is the first time that the celebrations of the Permanent Deputies are approved, they are approved with the PP. Throughout the history of this Parliament, including the UCD, a Permanent Deputy has never been authorized, a full, a sorry, a full. [[Murmurs.]] They understood, you understood, but the tanguila didn't like them, the tanguila didn't like them. [[Laughter]] I repeat: it is the first time in the history of this Parliament that a plenary is approved in Parliament; it is approved by the Government of Feijóo; it is approved by the Permanent Parliament. Something will have to say, no, I say something will have to say. [[Interruptions.]] Because petitions tell me there was, oh, but they refused. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I went over this subject because I didn't want a matter of this might be here said badly, and I went over it. There were only two occasions when they were authorized through the Permanent Deputy to hold a full extraordinary celebration: that of the autonomic financing and that which we have just approved – look at the hemerothecas – in the history of Parliament. I therefore thought that we would not debate this point now, but, well, if we have to debate it, we must debate it. And I have no doubt that you, representatives of AGE and representatives of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, have an interest in talking about health emergencies. How am I going to doubt this? Of course I am. I am absolutely convinced. But I'm also convinced that they have more interest in making media issues; I couldn't pass this hand without a little bit of yours, because the theme of space now and the protagonistism in space is a little dangerous. But I think they have a wrong perception, and this is a modest opinion of me, if they think that, once the whole thing is authorized to talk about health, it can diminish their political profitability. On the contrary, you don't have to smell them, what we're going to discuss in the plenary, and that's where it can be interesting what can be agreed upon. Our spokesperson already said: the important thing was to talk about emergencies and talk about hepatitis, and that's what we're going to talk about. Why? Because it's a restlessness that has the population. That's true, there's a concern in the population, and therefore I think this issue must be debated. But we could also think about something else, that I don't want to think about it, and it's just that you have an interest, even if with this point you keep talking more, to make a bit of wear on to the Government, but I don't think this is the issue. So we have passed the extraordinary full emergency, we have to nuance several things: The Permanent Deputy cannot contrast the information with the Government. In this case, the Permanent Deputy cannot, the Permanent Deputy only makes it possible to authorize the holding of a plenary. The Permanent Deputy cannot adopt measures relating to the emergencies, no. That's done, it can be done in the plenary we're going to celebrate. And I think our spokesperson has already said so: you're going with the fear that the advisor is being dragged here to come to the full. No, I think that the counselor comes normally and besides, if they hurry, until delighted to come to this plenary, because, among other things, it is also his obligation. But – I insist – it is not in the Permanent Deputy where measures can be adopted in relation to the emergencies. So we can and should talk in the full of things related to something we've found here, and I think this will be in plenary session, but not here. You've played here a lot of things that can be interesting. Of course, it's interesting that we talk about the points of continued attention, how is it not going to be interesting? We'll talk, but in the middle. I think it's interesting that we talk about home care. Everyone here is talking about emergencies, but nobody talks about home care, which has their emergency component, which is also done by primary doctors. That's what we'll have to talk about, Integrated Care. We need to talk about health transport, nobody talks about 061, no one talks about it, and that's what we're going to have to talk about, which is also urgent. And there's no doubt to talk about hospital emergency services, but we need to talk with knowledge, and for that we have to listen first to the advisor. And you can talk to a loud debate, but it must be a prudent debate; there is no contradiction to prudence. And in this sense, I think it's good that we talk about hospital attendance, how is it at one time?, how is it at another time?, why are they causing it?, what percentage of income is produced in the emergencies?, how many people go and how many people in this emergency generate income? They're very important data. It's good to talk about the attention of the CAPs; there are continuing points of attention, but there are also high-resolution points where certain situations can be resolved. We need to talk about dedicated human resources. So here we're talking a lot about cuts, but we're going to analyze what the human resources we have for hospital care and primary care are. In these debates, the suspension of surgical programming has been a long way off, and it's good to talk about the surgical programming equation divided by emergency pressure. What does a hospital do when emergencies are pushing and there are people who are scheduled for surgery? What's the priority the hospital has at that time? It will be to hospitalize those who are below. Why are people so alarmed if surgical activity is suspended at a given time and in cases that are not urgent is told to the user: can we speed up their intervention so that you can enter a patient who is in the ER and who needs bed? I've done it so often, so sometimes. Now you ask me, can this have a little impact on the waiting list? Right, of course. But what do we have to guarantee? And you want to tell me that this is only happening now? From the history of the Galego Health Service and from the history of the National Health System there are timely aspects that occur at the time, in all Spanish hospitals. I don't want to talk about Catalonia today, but I could put here examples of Catalonia, which then you would know what the emergency pressure is; there they don't talk about maximum waiting times, they talk about closing hospitals, and that's another story. But then we must talk about it. I don't know if this is alarmism, we shouldn't, but some expressions that go out there... and it's also good to talk about it, of course because that's why it's full. We need to talk about the choice. Here people started talking about the choice, is it good the choice we have or is it bad? Is there another better? Of course, if there's a better one, I propose to the Health Council to implement it. But first, we have to know what really is choice and how it is being applied. We need to talk about hospital beds. Is it a hospital bed problem that has the Galego Health Service or is it a problem that has to do with bed management as a result of emergency pressure that can occur at any given time? This is what we need to analyze. So I think here they have now said things that leave me a little scared: continuous work, that hospitals don't stop, that hospitals don't stop. Well, see if the gentleman who just won the elections in Greece can implement it. Unless we're talking about what happened here in other stages, and I don't want to mention anything, where the Board of Auditors tells us, look!, the self-concertation plans and the known as peonadas that are done with rational criteria, and take a bandage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u36	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u37	...to manage at that time that puts the sustainability of the Welsh health system trembling. Of course, I think we should talk about these things, and as I said before, we must also talk about the political attitude towards health care, political attitude, and this is generally true. So, I think you're going to approve the plenary session where you're going to come up with the Health Counsellor, not only about the hospital emergencies, but also about hepatitis C. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u38	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u39	...Yes, yes, she has unlimited time to give us information and that we have good information so we can then contrast it. I think it doesn't work, and therefore we're not going to authorize the presence of the president you asked to talk about the emergencies. Nothing else, Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u40	Thank you very much. Closure roll. Galego Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u41	Yes, Madam President, very briefly to answer some questions. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Santalices, since he recalls that almost at no time has been approved in the Permanent Deputy as an extraordinary call for legislation in the entire history of the Greek Parliament, where there was an absolute majority of the People's Party in that Parliament, because you always speak as if you had an absolute majority in this Parliament for two months and throughout the previous period others were governed. That's a first request. Second request, Mr. Santalices, little less than accuses us here of being political. Hey, this is a political institution, you're a politician, but coming here to make politics doesn't mean we're not moving issues that have to do with demands, with citizens' interests. You take the health issues in the People's Group, did you talk to the professionals, did you talk to the sick?, did you talk to the users to see the indignation they have about what they are suffering in the health care? I ask you, Mr. Santalices: don't tell us what we have to say in the debate tomorrow, that we don't mark the limits of this debate, that you don't tell us what's prudent and what's unwise, because it's an unwise fear of continuing to claim that the cuts have nothing to do with this situation, and for me it's an unwise fear to say that in the collapse of emergencies the patients, the users, the only thing they suffered was a problem of comfort. So don't tell us what we have to say and don't mark the limits of the debate. Finally, well, at last not, that I will still say two more things: A clarification, Mr. Santalices, because you are censored that when the Health Counsellor's appearance is approved, we continue here giving arguments. Look, it's not approved yet, it's not voted yet, there's an agenda, there's a series of requests, there's a request made by the AGE and the BNG groups, where we ask for the presence of Mr. President. Therefore, you respect our right to defend our request for attendance, because the Permanent Parliament does not agree until the issues are debated and voted on. And we explained why we understood that I should come to the president. And since you handle irony so much and you say, yes, yes, yes, they don't scandalize, they understand. Of course I understand, Mr. Santalices, I understand very well. You say it's better for the Health Counsellor to attend because the Health Counsellor is much more up-to-date in health matters. And tomorrow he'll also appear, therefore, Mr. Feijóo because he's much more up-to-date in corruption matters, that's what I understand. [[Laughter]] But, well, the explanations are already given, and so we've kept our request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u42	Thank you very much. You have the word for Alternative Left Galeg to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u43	The truth is, Mr. Santalices, you never cheat, and even incorporates sense of humor, the problem is that the situation we're reporting here is dramatic, it's neither to frizzy nor even to talk about the things you've talked about. Political yields are sure to be of little value, Mr. Santalices. The problem is that it's very serious what's happening in public health and the problem is that there are people who can die because of the failure of a medication they need or even because of a situation that is not of comfort, which is a lack of respect to speak to citizens and citizens like this, but they're even turning the health advisor into the real Welshman, Mr. Santalices. I don't know if you know, I suppose you talk to the health platforms, to the patient associations, to the professionals, but they've also achieved as well as in justice, that is: that the professionals, optional, optional, health and health – in general, many of the People's Party – are on the verge of war. They have achieved what no one has achieved in the democratic history of this country: they are on the verge of war, they cannot understand what the Unity of Galicia is doing, which is to cut and attack public health. And don't distract yourself, it's not a matter of choice, Mr. Santalices, until I know what choice is. It's not a choice problem, it's that there may be a magnificent triage in the CHUAC and, if the Abente Lago is then closed, it's not worth anything at all. Don't distract attention, because it's a problem of personnel cutting, it's a problem of privatization, of business interests to derive from private, it's also a problem of cutting and closing beds, and it's also a problem of collapse of the health system. Because something professionals said to me these days: "Yolanda, don't forget," -- they said to me -- "it's vital in this emergency situation to collapse the system, generate alarm, prove that public health is bad." Of course you do, Mr. Santalices. And you, the People's Party, are masters. Some of the matter went wrong in Madrid, which brought them justice through the white tides. Of course they were wrong! But, of course, they wouldn't distract us from perfectly knowing what's going on. I don't know if you could read the report about Eugenio Leira that's in Interviú. I know this person, he lives in the neighborhood of Caranza, he can die because he lacks this drug, Mr. Santalices. I think it's quite relevant what we're talking about, and not to talk about these issues that you just told us here: photos, images or political profitability. And it's more relevant even if it appears, and that's why we keep urging him to do it, Mr. President of the Board, because it's not enough and it's not useful, except for the scalpel, with apologizing. The president of the board tomorrow has to come especially to manage and assume the political responsibilities of the mismanagement that is being done in public health, and we are certain after what we've already experienced that the health advisor this won't do, he won't do it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u45	...and, of course, you must present the highest responsibility for this country to report and to say what you will do with the Health Council: if you will continue to cut and keep at your post a counselor, who – I insist – has become the Gallardona of our country's health policy, for you have managed to piss off those of the People's Party in medicine and the healthcare staff as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u47	So, Mr. Santalices, we would also like you to tell us – and end already – that same transparency is shared in the waiting lists that you asked when you were in the opposition. And thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. We then proceeded to the vote. If there was no inconvenience, I would propose a joint vote on the first three initiatives of the Socialist Party and separate the fourth, because it seems to be the one which is marked by a different vote. We would therefore vote, firstly, on document 31835, 31836 and 31838 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the application by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of the Government of Galicia, to explain the crisis situation of the dairy sector. Voting of the application by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary for the urgent appearance of the President of Galicia, to explain the absence of answers to the problem of unemployment in Galicia. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, for the convening of an extraordinary plenary session for the urgent appearance of Mrs. Counsellor for Environment, Transport and Infrastructure to explain the position of the German Government in the face of the competitive disadvantage of the price of fuels in Galicia, as well as the obstacles to the return of that tribute to professional carriers. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 11. The result of the vote is negative. These applications are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u49	We would then vote on the request of the Socialist Group document No 31837. Request from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the urgent celebration of a meeting of the Permanent Deputy, for the convening of an extraordinary plenary session for the urgent appearance of Mrs. Health Counsellor to report on the collapse of the emergency services of the Greek hospitals, as well as to inform about the measures that are expected to be put in place to deal with the healing of the sick people of hepatitis C. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21. The voting is positive. This application is therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u50	Finally, we voted for the request shared by the AGE and the BNG Parliamentary Group, document No. 32039. Voting of the application, two GGs. PP. of the Alternative Glaga de Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, of an urgent meeting of the Permanent Deputy, to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting for the presence of Mr. President of Galicia, to report on the situation of collapse in the emergency services of the public hospitals of Galicia and the measures to be taken by the Board of Galicia. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 11. The result of the vote is negative. This application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-26-DSPGDP007.u51	All I have to say is that approved by this Permanent Deputy for the request of the Health Counsellor, it is necessary for me to propose to the House plenary tomorrow the modification of the agenda to incorporate this appearance as approved by this Permanent Deputy. Nothing else, thank you very much and good morning. The session is up.
