ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u1	They're taking their seats. Good morning, gentlemen. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. He justified his inattentiveness to Mrs Gallego Calvar. And we come in, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda, starting with point 1 of legislative texts. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, tell me, Mr. Jorquera. What do you want the word for? [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Tell me, what's the problem? Give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Article 73.1 states, as you know, that the agenda of the plenary may be amended by agreement, either by proposal from the President or by request of two parliamentary groups, or by a fifth of the members of the House. We agree with two parliamentary groups, the AGE Parliamentary Group and the BNG Group, to request the amendment of the agenda. And, in particular, point 2. Point 2 reads: "Vote of CRTVG's proposal for a framework mandate adopted by Commission 1a". We propose, as is usual practice in this House, that it be debate and vote, that there should therefore be a prior fixation by the various parliamentary groups. Faced with the argument that no new arguments – worth redundancy –...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u3	Well, I get it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u4	...we understand that the fact that in the previous plenary the quorum was not reached by itself is a new argument for it to be reconsidered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u5	I understand, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u6	...this proposal from the Commission 1st.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u7	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. I got it. No matter what, as you know, this is a matter that was discussed at the Speaker's Board, since it calls for a change in the agenda there is no problem with your vote. We therefore, if you think so, vote on the amendment of the agenda requested by two parliamentary groups in connection with this inclusion. We vote "yes" or "no" to Mr. Jorquera's proposal and Mrs. Díaz's proposal, the BNG Parliamentary Group and the Gaga de Left Alternative. Voting of the request to amend agenda item 2, by proposal from the GGs. PP. the Galaga de Left Alternative and the Galego Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. The request for a modification of the agenda is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u8	We started the full, as it was established, with point 1 of legislative texts. Debate of the entire Galician Land Law Project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u9	Amendments to this bill were tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gallaga Alternative and the Socialist Group. For the presentation of the bill, you have the word of the Territorial Environment and Ordination Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We are bringing this Parliament today, responding to a commitment made by the Government of Galicia, a bill which, if it were possible, is one of the most important bills of this legislation; and I would dare say that of both legislations. Any legislative text that is debated in this Parliament is important, but I think that this law, the Law of the Land, has an extra relevance because it is designed to ensure that it is a standard that gives stability in a framework that is so vital to our development, the development of our autonomous community, such as urbanism, and to do so in addition to protecting our rural community and protecting our landscape. Ladies and gentlemen, all the groups we represent in this House agree that Galicia needs a new land law. Hence the pact for the territory reached in this Parliament in 2009, and from there also the electoral programmes of each political formation represented here, where they also led to a new land law in our community that exceeds the current Louga, which already has more than 13 years of age. A new text, this one, which we bring here to the House, which counts on a long journey after you. This government has been working for many years, and it's been working for years on improving and updating the management of our territory. Prior to the drafting of this bill, in 2011, the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan, which provided a solid basis for the text we are presenting today, were approved. And, as you all know, these, both regulations, had a public recognition. And it's just that this journey, logically, would be incomplete if I didn't have the final ending in this new law that meets the management needs, meets the development needs of rural areas and also responds to the protection of our current landscape. From the very first moment we were aware that there had to be a law developed – and that is what we also pursued in this Parliament – with as much consensus as possible. And so we've proven it over the last few years. We know that only in this way will we achieve its objective, that it is only to give stability, so necessary, for the sustainable development of our autonomous community. We're looking for consensus from the first step. In order to develop it, we opened an active participation process, we maintained dialogue with 75 social agents, and even 30 sectoral meetings were promoted. We wanted anyone who wanted to be able to carry out their approaches to this text. And so, even though the legal deadline was two months of public exposure through the website, we accepted all the allegations and comments for about two years that this text was exposed. And this participation turned out to be very fruitful. In fact, we have incorporated into the text that we are presenting to this Parliament today 80% of the allegations that have made us from the different institutions. In particular, and for example, it was 85% of the allegations made by the Official College of Architects of Galicia that were collected in this text. Today we want to move forward and we want to complete this process of dialogue by listening to and paying attention also to all the proposals which parliamentary groups in this Parliament can make to this text, all those which obviously aim to improve this text. I believe that this law is so important that it is worth making an effort by all to achieve a necessary consensus. We want it to be the law of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and also for the time being. And for that reason, we are doing a thorough exercise of simplification and clarification in this regulation. It's a law that we understand is more practical and also simpler, since it now has a lower number of articles than the previous law, with respect to the Louga; in particular, 32% less articles. We also try to make it clearer and more understandable for all citizens, and even if it fits, it's more transparent. And so it demonstrates the fact that through this law a new log will be created, a planning log, where all the PXOMs in the autonomous community will be, and even a digital urban platform. It's a law that responds directly and in good time to the three great objectives that we mark in its elaboration. The first of them, the first and most important, is that no council in our community is without PXOM; that is, the management of our territory, that is, to meet all the demands of urban planning by making no council in our community lacks up-to-date and quality planning. The second objective – and no less – is to promote and facilitate the development of our rural environment. Not in vain, Galicia – as you all know – has 93% of our community linked to the rural world, and therefore it is impossible to understand our present without this reality, and above all our future. And lastly, and thirdly objective – also important – to ensure maximum protection of the Greek landscape, a reality that defines us at social, environmental and cultural level. These are the big targets that pursue this new text that comes now and that I will try to explain now for the child. I'll start by doing this for the purpose of spatial planning. First of all, it must be noted that in recent years in our community we have experienced significant advances in the promotion of urban planning in our municipalities. In fact, since 2009 it has been able to increase by 160 percent the number of municipalities that are already planning today, from 32 municipalities that were in 2009 to 83, which are the ones that are now, with PXOM up-to-date. So we've also managed to double the number of populations that today has an up-to-date PXOM. They are positive figures, no doubt, but they are obviously also insufficient, since this represents 40% of our community, and by this law we intend to reach 100 percent of the municipalities. To that end, we will help all the municipalities that need it and, in particular, the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, those who voluntarily request help to develop in this case a tool that defines this new law, which is an important tool, which is the municipal basic plan. It's more, we also want them to be able to do it, this planning, in agile way, and especially in as short a time as possible. Thus, we will update and speed up the collection of sectoral reports through a single report; that is, we will finish and reduce as much time as possible the months of the preparation of all sectoral reports as possible. So far, Louga demanded that all sectoral reports be required separately. From now on, with the adoption of this new law, it will be the General Secretariat for Territory Planning to collect all sectoral reports; and, in addition, reports will have to be issued within a maximum of three months. From that moment on, administrative silence will be understood as positive. And this will allow you to reduce the time it takes to process a PXOM about 75%. Even we have a special section for those municipalities from 5,000 to 50,000 inhabitants, where the situation that will collect the new law will be in the same sense as it was until now at Louga; that is, it will need all the procedures but it will be the Junta of Galicia that gives the final approval to this planning, to the planning of the municipalities that have between 5,000 and 50,000 inhabitants. And there will be a difference, with this new law, in the municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants, that is, in the seven great cities, where they will have from this law greater autonomy, since it will be the municipalities themselves who will have the ability to finally approve this general management plan; of course, with a preliminary and decisive report from the Council of Galicia. Another tool that contemplates and which is important in this new law is the Autonomic Basic Plan, which will obviously serve as a basis for the development of these municipal basic plans linked to those municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants who request in Galicia the elaboration of these basic plans. In short, this new law is a fundamental step forward in both management and planning. And they do it by putting in place new tools, agitating bureaucratic procedures and also giving more autonomy to the municipalities. I would like to point out that, in the eighteen types of licenses that the Louga contemplates and which are also contemplated in this bill that we bring to this Parliament, the municipalities will be given total autonomy around fourteen licenses. I mean, the Louga had allowed autonomy, in licensing, to the municipalities until now only four kinds of uses. And from now on, with this law, they'll have more autonomy, since they can give 14 different licenses. And all of this – I insist – with a very clear objective, which is to achieve within a shorter period of time than the 314 municipalities in our community have an up-to-date planning. The second big goal that we set ourselves up with the new law is the bet on rural development, which is so important in our community. Galicia has been, is and will be an eminently rural community. But in order for this to be so, from the Autonomic Government we have to face two essential challenges. One of them is to get our rurals to live, and at the same time to ensure that it's protected to the maximum. It's one of the objectives of this law that you have at the same time to answer these two challenges. The aim is to promote the use of rural areas which are compatible with the preservation of their values. We're never going to put rural values at risk, and that's a basic premise of our actions that collects this law, that it collects it in the definition, for example, of the nuclei and the uses allowed in the nuclei; or that it collects it, for example, in the possibility of increasing the percentage of rehabilitation in housing that is already in rustic soil or even in nuclei. But, gentlemen, I think you'll agree that there's not a single more unprotected than what's abandoned, and that's something we have to fight against, too. I think this new law designs the most appropriate framework for doing so. We potentiate rural development through the use of rustic soil – and, I insist, without de-protection – but unique and exclusively for those uses where this soil is ideal; such as, for example, facilities of general interest, such as a hospital or school, public equipment, such as can be a debugger, or sustainable tourism initiatives. And in the case that in rustic soil if you want to install a housing, this law will protect that it is a housing exclusively linked – and indeed its livelihood – to an agricultural exploitation, with the objective that, of course, those who work in rural areas can also, if they want, live in it. On the other hand, the law is inflexible with the spread of buildings and the implementation of industries other than the rural environment. Another of the instruments that the law encourages to give a boost to rural life is rehabilitation; that is to say, rehabilitating constructions helps to curb dispersal and contributes to taking advantage of the already built and ultimately revitalizing rural life. And with this in mind, the new law clarifys the definition of traditional building, thus considering itself as a traditional building that was prior to 1975, and giving the possibility of increasing the rehabilitation of these buildings: from 10% that collected the Louga to 50%, as requested by the College of Architects. The third of the main axes is also the protection of our landscape. Since it couldn't be otherwise, this law places the general interest that involves the landscape above any other private or private interest. Another of the basic principles behind the text is precisely this, responsible urbanism. It is necessary to reaffirm the idea of co-responsibility in the area of land management and the protection of our landscape, since this is not a matter of architects, it is not a matter of rulers, it is a thing of all, and it is one of the great heritages that we own; therefore it belongs to all of us and we must all make an effort to look after it. Reaching a high degree of social awareness and awareness in this area will be the first step to be covered, but, on the other hand, this law establishes the necessary framework for the constructions to adapt to the contour. It promotes the recovery, I insist, of the already built and strengthens and forces to finish externally the constructions, thereby putting an end to the deterioration of the Greek landscape. And I'm done. I think we're all very aware of the importance of this law for our community, and that's why we've been working on it for many months. It is a project that, since the Government of Galicia, we want it to be born with consensus, because it guarantees the stability necessary for the sustainable development of our community. There was consensus in the participation and development of this bill over all these years with social agents and with all sectoral meetings, incorporating 80% of the allegations. And we seek to enrich this law now in this Parliament with the additions of all political groups. I insist, it is directed to protect and improve our territory by making it compatible with its use. It's a law, of course, that wants to ensure that no municipality in our community is without urban planning, and also to make it agile. But it will also lay the foundations of what Galicia will mean for the future, a Galicia that must be ordered, sustainable, able to grow and competitive while respecting its heritage, its natural values and its landscape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u11	The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, to say that the bill has not been brought before the debate to promote participation is that, really... the wish was what it was, and now that the legislation is being completed, they want to approve the law of the ground. It's the only explanation, and the rest is to come here to tell stories. Well, I present the amendment because I believe that the bill does not solve any of the problems of urbanism and the use of the soil we currently have. While I agree with the need for adaptation of legislation to social and technological changes, administrative simplification and the protection of rustic soil, it must be acknowledged that the bill contains definitions that do not improve the current situation but create new niches of conflict. It does not collect, for example, any principle of public information, transparency and control in urban action by citizens. The principle of transparency in public action, as well as the channels of citizen participation in decision-making with regard to it, and the systems of control over the performance of the Administration should appear clearly defined as citizens' rights in a law that will define the urban model in which people should live, the protection of national heritage and the future development of the rural environment. The draft law does not seek the protection of areas of environmental interest or the form of participation of the neighbouring associative movement, agricultural associations, trade unions, universities and representatives of entities or organisations concerned with the protection and protection of the environment in urbanism plans. Although in theory the bill intends to act with respect to local autonomy, it actually discriminates against the municipalities according to the number of inhabitants – between the more than 50,000 and the rest – without such discrimination being justified, thus undermining the local autonomy of these entities. The competence of the municipalities in their area of urban action is not collected; for example, as regards urban competition regarding planning, the execution of planning or the regulation of the soil market. The definition of rural core soil already reduces the administratively identifiable in censuses and patterns, without taking into account other circumstances that demonstrate the rational nesting of the nucleus with the physical environment where it is located. Much of the regulation of the materials collected in the preliminary draft remains pending from development instruments, so it's difficult to evaluate them. In this situation there remains the Higher Committee on Urbanism or the Xurate of Expropriations of Galicia. The Higher Committee on Urbanism is nothing more than a mention in the bill, not including its composition, organization, functions or systems of collaboration with other public entities or social organizations. As for the normative content, organization, operation and internal regime of the Jewish Expropriations of Galicia, it has been pending since the constitution of it on 14 February 2006, so it must be set a time limit for its development since the entry into force of the law. Some articles create legal insecurity, by not specifying certain terms, such as in the case of article 17 when referring to "areas with a high degree of degradation", without defining what these are; or "the immediate environment", without knowing how much this immediate environment covers; or in article 20 about the building limit, when it says "unless it becomes essential" without explaining what situations would be essential. The same is true of the minimum required surfaces for construction, where the possibilities of exception are indicated without justification on which these will be based. As for the requirements for general plans and basic plans, no services such as gas or broadband access are considered. Nor does it incorporate questions about the energy efficiency of new dwellings or their architectural quality. The bill does not provide for the need to obtain in all cases an autonomous urban authorization for constructions that house potentially polluting activities. Nor does it concern itself about the need to transfer all potentially polluting installations on the banks of our rivers and rivers, or to prohibit extractive activity in soils of special protection. Nor does the bill introduce infringements committed against the cultural and natural heritage, nor the consequences of the violation of this law by public officials, and must it be pointed out that the commission of very serious or serious misconduct committed by public officials will lead to their immediate cessation. In many respects, the bill prejudices the interests of the most vulnerable, since it does not provide for extensions to build or rehabilitate depending on changes in the economic situation, in works that affect the person's first habitual living or living. In addition, penalties imposed by default should be established on the basis of the net income of the sanctioned persons. The same limits cannot be applied to the construction of a building by a profit-oriented builder than to a private person who performs reform works in his home or builds his first home. In cases of expropriation there is no special compensation for loss of habitual housing, nor does it include the duty of the Administration to reallocate in the case of forced expropriation, as well as the guarantee of pre-repropriation housing. Furthermore, expropriation ceases to be a system limited to cases of urgency or necessity, and may result in abuse of this formula. The bill does not solve either the problem of many dwellings which, by maintaining harmony with the dwellings built prior to the year 75, are excluded from their traditional housing considerations. As for the category of rustic soil for agricultural protection, it should not only be defined by high productivity – which should also be defined and which is high productivity – but should take into account other aspects inherent to our rural world. It is not defined what is considered to be high forest productivity land for its registration as only rustic forest protection. It is not known whether the high productivity is speaking of quantity or whether it is speaking of wood quality. The bill continues to be restrictive in relation to the endowment of social housing, reducing the reserve of soil for shelter protected to real demand; in addition to allowing to reduce the reserve of soil for protected housing in response to that real demand. The provision should be extended on the basis of a register of homeless or infra-living people, with needs for adapted housing, and forecast the evolution of the population; because homeless people, people at risk of social exclusion, are not usually the people who are in a psychological situation to approach the Town Hall, cover papers and claim a housing, and therefore the Administration should take the initiative for these people to have access to a social housing. But it's just that, in addition, you can reduce the number. It seems to me already, of course, a scandal. They should be the object of strategic environmental assessment also the municipal basic plans, which the bill excludes. The autonomous basic plan could contain more determinations, such as the identification of special protection soil. Furthermore, it should be the subject of debate and approval by the Galician Parliament, as it will define the Greek territorial model. The general municipal management plans should include a report on the social interest of actions. Thus, article 75 should show the improvement of universal and sustainable mobility. It draws attention that there is no single reference to improving mobility in urban management plans, ensuring security in our rural areas, there is no reference to this kind of thing. You don't pick up what the goal of urban planning is. They should include the objectives of planning, such as promoting the conservation and recovery of built heritage, of relevant urban spaces, of unique architectural elements and types, of traditional forms of land occupation or of differential or distinctive outlines that make up local identity. It must be borne in mind that all these issues, which are matters of concern to citizenship, are their spaces, are the spaces with which it is identified and which, therefore, should be included in planning and should also record their protection to enjoy citizenship. References to the competences of the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil and the Coastal Management Plan are missing in the text. Actually, at the Institute of Housing and Solo we were talking yesterday about budgets, also about the frozen budget that's going to take for the year. It gives the feeling that the Union has no interest in the fact that the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo really has an important role in this law and in municipal management plans. In short, this bill must be returned to the Government to reconsider many of its normative shortcomings and criteria contrary to the interests of the majority of society. It must be returned to introduce measures to protect soil and natural and cultural heritage from extractive or polluting industrial activities. It must be returned because it limits the powers of the municipalities with less than 50,000 inhabitants and the participation of social organisations and citizenship. It must be returned because it does not set any kind of time limit to move the contaminant companies that today are in our rivers and our rivers, as may occur, for example, with the Lagares River of Vigo, totally contaminated by the industry on its shores, or with the situation of Ence in the Pontevedra River. So it seems to us to be an important failure and, in addition, it is not that we have forgotten the Board to pick up these issues, but rather that the goal of the Board is that these companies continue to be where they are, located on the banks of rivers and rivers, polluting our waters, another of the issues that we don't even consider in the preliminary draft. When it comes to water protection, it's usually not about continental and maritime waters, it's not about surface water and groundwater. He speaks of water in an indefinition that has no explanation after two years of so much work, as you say, that they dedicated him to this law. It must be returned because it imposes unfair sanctions on the majority of society without taking into account the crisis situation, the situation of wages of misery of the working class, the situation of unemployment of many people who will prevent them from carrying out works in their homes. How much more would those people want to be able to finish the works of their usual dwellings in order to enjoy a dignified quality of life! So just as you don't pick up something so important, what you talk about is so much and so much so that the Union itself is about, which is the energy efficiency of the dwellings. And, above all, it must be returned because it is born without the social consensus on the use of the soil that this bill proposes. As much as you say it has been two years to be able to accept all the amendments and that you have accepted almost everything, the fact is that, as you see, there are many lakes in this law and it deserves to be returned to the Government, and that all these lakes the Government is studying them, making proposals and coming again with this law covered under the minimum conditions of legality and ensuring the legal security of all the actions; and also imposing, within these sanctions, which are the penalties when public charges commit serious or very serious infringements in relation to urbanism, which, as I say, should be the immediate cessation and disability. To finish, two serious issues and recurrences in this draft law. The first is to correct sexist language. It's incredible that all bills of law of this government have to carry the same amendment of correction of sexist language. Furthermore, that the present counsellor is that, indeed, he is beginning to be a little insulting almost. So, you correct sexist language, you worry before you hand over drafts of law. And another one also repeated and also serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u14	...it's over, Madam President, it's time for them to use the Greek alphabet. There are letters in the Spanish alphabet and we don't have, for example, "j" or "k". So they correct those two eyves, collect the bill and correct the indefinitions, the legal insecurities and come back with it again for the debate. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. I have to tell you, first of all, that the only thing we agree with your intervention is that we are really debating a law, this new project of land law, which is a law with a great social impact. And precisely for that reason, because the law that starts here today has a huge impact on people's lives, on the territory and, therefore, on the future planning of our environment in which we live, we ask here today that this law be withdrawn and that this law not go ahead in its processing. Because we really consider this to be a bill that maintains a zombie urbanism in our country, an urbanism serving not the social majority of Galicia, but at the service of speculation, a disconnected urbanism of Galicia's reality and therefore a bill that, far from solving the serious problems of urbanism in our country, will even constitute a step back on the legislation that we already have. And so, then, when we have more time, slowly, to see this bill, you can check how this is. Because this urbanism and this bill is really unprotecting our territory, particularly our rural environment, introduces new liberalizing and deregulation elements of the soil, precisely the policy that led us in one part to that real estate bubble that wants to consolidate and extend with this land law project. It fosters an urbanism that has nothing to do with the tradition and reality of our country, it is a widespread urbanism, a dispersed urbanism that causes much greater occupation of the territory, an increase in the provision of services; and therefore, with the serious problem that we already have in many parts of our country, instead of being corrected, what you want is to continue to promote that model. And I also have to tell you that this is a law that is not born of any consensus. What consensus does this law have? With whom? We have been here shortly since the adoption of this bill, receiving numerous social groups, and this law has not been born of any consensus either with social entities or with neighboring associations. Who have you agreed to this law? Not with opposition groups, because we had here a land law study commission that was not born to form different bases of urbanism where we could give this country a future perspective. He was born of a bill that has already made the People's Party without consensus with anyone and that in practice is a small and bad version, and worse than the legislation we have right now. So we believe that this law, if you want to do this country a service, what you should do is remove it. Because we don't believe that urbanism can be measured by weight, and, as there are fewer articles, the law is better. That – you will agree with me – is an absolute barbarity to say it from the forum of a parliament. What we're going to have to do is if this law gives more legal certainty, more capacity to act, and if it really solves the serious problems that urbanism has. And unfortunately, Counsellor, what we have is a law that will introduce more legal insecurity, that will not speed up planning or improve urbanism in this country. Because I suppose you, in addition, are aware of the law and the additional provisions you introduce, which does not even foresee a deadline to adapt to this new legislation. Therefore, we understand, Counselor, that many of the things you have said here are not sustained. And it seems very serious to us that after the adoption in 2002 of the Louga, after 13 years in which there were ten reforms, the final fate is a law that worsens the framework we currently have. And you, too, are making changes to changes that have just brought to this Parliament less than a year ago in substantial matters. Because you will also agree with me that they do not have the same incidence or reach all the changes that are made in a law, nor all the conceptualizations or definitions that are, for example, contained in this law. Since the BNG we have very clear that if we need a new urban policy, we have very clear that a new law is needed from the ground, but this bill that brings the Government to this House today is, as we said, an unusable bill, a bill that does not solve the problems we have and a bill that, in addition, separates itself from the urban reality of this country and which seems to ignore even the reality of Greece itself. Let me give you a couple of examples. We see how, for example, there is nothing of the problem that is related to the serious problems caused by the State's Law on the back of our country in relation to the recognition of the rural nuclei in the coast, which continues to be a very big problem and which has to do with precisely a legislation which does not understand that in Galicia we have a very different occupation of the territory and, in particular, of the coast they have, for example, on the Levante. We also find it a little worrisome even if you, for example, take a step back when it comes to the recognition of the neighboring mountains in common, because they will create new problems for mountain communities, and very serious problems for some of the facilities in mountain communities. You know that in this law, for example, you qualify as a soil for forest protection for all the neighboring mountains in common, when in neighboring mountains in common, there are cemeteries, there are social facilities, there is agricultural use; and therefore what you are is putting another obstacle to the development of a very important part of our rural environment. We also do not understand how everything that has to do with the recognition of parishes in rural areas and the centrality that parishes also have to have in relation to the provision of services, and therefore with the introduction of an element of planning in our territory based on a pre-existing reality that remains of great relevance, and how all this disappears from this legislation. So an increasingly far-off law from the reality of our country. You said we wouldn't be able to say that this was a law that unprotected rural people. Well, let me make a whole amendment here too. Because this is a law in which really one of the most profound issues is the deprotection of our rural environment and the consolidation of a liberalizing model, which has offset all urban speculation that has brought such disastrous social and economic consequences. Because the liberalisation of the soil did not lead to better access to housing, the liberalization of the soil led to the destruction of our territory and an increase in the price of the housing that the only one who did was to consider it a speculative good. So this is what you want to consolidate, unprotecting our rural environment. You've seen, for example, that in this law you bring about changes that are very worrying. We are very concerned about the modification of Article 79 in relation to changes in plans, where the bans of conversion from rustic soil to urban land disappear when there were fires. I mean, you're allowing for changes that we believe are very worrying about soil classification. And this is one of the issues that we also find very important. Because there were exceptions so that it could be reclassified as urbanizable the rustic soil that suffered fires. And we do not understand how this action is allowed to involve a policy which has been denounced on many occasions, even where it seems that the incendiary activity linked to urban interests is indirectly motivated. So, Counsellor, we asked you whether you don't know the bill or whether you're here favoring, of course, a very important deprotection of our rural environment. We also see how, for example, you're going to allow a part of the rustic soil to be urbanizable; that is, they're going to allow it to be urbanized in more than 80% of our territory, something that wasn't so before, so we're talking about this law as a deregulation of our soil, a disprotection of our very important rural environment and, of course, a very serious problem towards our future. We are also concerned that as far as the urban soil configuration itself is concerned in our country, you do not cut down all those linear growths along the channels of communication, which have nothing to do with the traditional occupation of our country and which – as I also said in my intervention – we believe that they distort the very reality of Galicia and cause a serious problem of nuclei dissemination, with very negative consequences from an urban point of view. We also say in our refund amendment that this is going to be a law that causes an increase in legal insecurity. There are too many indeterminate concepts. And even practices or instruments that I had right now, urbanism, that were working very well and that were solving a lot of problems in the management of the municipalities, you're eradicating us. For example, in the Commission which we had here, in studying the new Law on Urbanism, all the experts in the management of urbanism were very surprised that the interpretative rules regarding urbanism had disappeared, which said that, when there were doubts in the application of laws, the criteria of lower edificibility, greater provision of public spaces and greater environmental protection had to be applied. You eliminate this, even though it was a unanimous claim from all the people who are in the management of urbanism at the level of the municipalities and who were very useful tools. You also eliminate another series of instruments that were being used at the level of the municipalities and introduce – as we say – insecurity. There are a lot of referrals to regulations and rules that are going to develop in theory, but, as you will understand, with the practice of urbanism in our country, we have very little faith that these instruments are going to develop quickly. You also said that this is a law that increases municipal autonomy. Well, here too, we have to say that it's exactly the opposite of what you're doing in this law. We see how you restrict municipal autonomy. They continue to maintain the preponderance of territorial management interventions, without seeking coordination with planning from the municipalities themselves. They do not establish a clear and transparent division of competence, which generates a new framework for collaboration between the Union and the municipalities. We consider from our group that the Basic Plan is going to be another failure of identical consequences that the Land Management Guidelines or that the Coastal Management Plan, which were instruments that did not have any effectiveness or any function; it is more, that the Union itself fails. We could talk about ENCE and the forecasts they had in the Coastal Management Plan about ENCE. Where are they? So, instruments that didn't have any kind of effectiveness, and now they say a joint planning will solve the problems of the municipalities. Besides, they're expropriating to the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants the ability to even have the initiative to make a basic plan, adapted to their municipality, which is much better. By the way, it seems to us that, from a legal point of view, this is also very questionable. You said – don't change, PP gentlemen – that the Board was going to collect all the sectoral reports. [[Murmurs.]] Nor is it true, Counselor, that the Board will only collect the sectoral reports it is responsible for issuing to the Council of Galicia. But you know that the State Administration also issues a lot of reports on planning, so the problem will not be solved. We also recommend that you review the text, because you will see that, apart from administrative simplification, none of the reports are deleted or deadlines reduced. It seems to us that it is important to speed up reports, but not the formula you use, that in many cases, if you don't issue reports, everything goes ahead, because in practice what you're promoting is the loss of functions in relation to areas that are within the competence of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u17	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u18	We also believe that there are other issues that are very serious in this bill. It protects a very important part of our traditional architectural heritage. We believe that the prediction in the legislation, which did not allow much of our traditional heritage to be demolished, allowed us to retain the jewels of our heritage, and you eliminate this prediction. We think it doesn't make any sense that they're considered traditional constructions all those built before 1975, because if we make an inventory of many of the dwellings that were built before 1975, they have nothing to do with our traditional typology. The typology will have to do with the characteristics of the construction, not the year. Many of the uncontextualized dwellings that exist in our rural areas were built just before 1975, and you want to enshrine that model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u20	We would also like him to explain to us why participation in capital gains is eliminated, which is one of the most important social functions of urbanism. And you in Article 89, for the purpose of the implementation of the management plans, for example, introduce the elimination of social participation in surpluses; that is, the benefits of urbanism. Who are you benefiting from, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u22	And I'm done with one last question. We believe that this is an obsolete law in quality standards; that it does not meet the social dimension of urbanism; that, as we said, it keeps urbanism away from the reality of this country; it worsens the legislation we have and does not really solve or agitate municipal management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u24	Therefore, Counsellor, if you are concerned with urbanism, remove this law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u25	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Antón Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u26	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. I appreciate the constructive and consensus tone you've used, and perhaps you, who's been a counselor for a short time, pays the broken plates of the People's Party politics many years ago. You said this is a transcendental, historical law. It must be that it causes a lot of wear, because you're the third advisor in a legislation that should lead this historical instrument. Three, two advisors and a counselor, that indicates how little importance is given to this instrument since the Government of Galician Union. I'm 41 years old, I was born in 1974, and I'm already very tired of listening to words similar to what you said: sustainable growth, management, balanced growth, development of rural core soil, etc. Look, in this country we have a hyperinflation of land laws, and instead we have a disaster and a failure in land management. The law that comes to replace this -- that's Law 9/2002 -- had ten changes, one per year, until it started with this writing. In twelve years or 13 years, ten changes, Counselor. And that you come here to sell that the Land Law can cover what has not been done in the years of democracy in this country, which is land management policy! So you have to start by pointing out that in terms of land management and land management, and by extension of this country's territory, there are two missing legislatures. You're committed to building the house on the roof, the basis of turning an urban regulation into a more permissive and lax frame without having previously established limits that must be of a territorial, environmental and heritage nature. Let's leave empty words, let's talk about protecting our heritage. Do you know that heritage protection professionals have to work as in the middle of the 19th century, consulting the paper papers of restoration, since no Government has been able to digitize and georeference the heritage values of this country? Just like that. We can talk about empty words, whatever they want, you didn't even develop an instrument to locate our heritage digitally. Therefore, the existence of a legislative apparatus aimed at regulating the urban system of the soil cannot replace the necessary spatial planning through tools that apply criteria that are not strictly legal, thought to be the right scale and that also require binding type determinations, and not what we have here with the territorial management guidelines. Where are the appropriate scales for urbanism management, Counsellor? Where are the metropolitan areas that have the capacity to plan urbanistically? When real estate companies have been working on supra-municipal scales for decades now, we continue to base urban development on a municipal scale, which is not a proper scale. Where are the comarcas as administrative entities to act on that appropriate scale? Where is the work done to classify the soil according to its abilities at the level of detail and reliability enough? Where are the integrated territorial plans? Where is the protection of the heritage? A law of the ground can't solve all this from a pen or cover the enormous deficiencies produced from a popular party disgust mainly, for many years, since it was the party that more years ruled. You're talking about dynamizing rurals with a land law. In developed countries, the Land Law is not used as a tool for economy. The rural economy is dynamising into an appropriate administrative organization: comarcallization. To work on a proper scale, it stimulates itself by making sectoral plans from below; it stimulates itself by making sectoral plans for the dynamization of the rural economy itself, and then it becomes a law of soil adapted to that socio-economic model, no less or less. Counsellor, in order of the territory you have a suspension, I have to tell you; we have a suspension in this country. And then he said that Law 9/2002 had ten changes. For us this is the eleventh amendment of the previous law because it does not change, substantially, anything. As if nothing had happened here, as if there had been no real estate bubble, as if there had been thousands of empty dwellings as long as he cared for himself and destroyed his estate. There is no depopulation of rural areas, no decline in the useful agricultural area, nor has there been, for example, urban corruption. We're still paying, and we're going to pay for the next few years – as the Barriers news came out yesterday – the outcome of this model. And you insist on the same model, and they're also selling it as a historical step. They're, once again, selling air. Trying to sell us that the basis of approval of laws in the Dog, without more, can solve the problem. You're, once again, working with election times. You are not working as a government capable – or unwilling – of dealing with the serious structural problems of this country once and for all. This is not solved in two days, it is not solved by the publication of the DOG, it is solved by a lot of accompanying and comprehensive measures that you give up doing; for example, by the land management guidelines or by another administrative organization. You presented in the Law tax and administrative measures to support the merging municipalities, and presented the merger of Oza-Cesuras. That's a clairvoy. Instead of confronting the law of comarcallization of this country, you say they're going to give more grants to the municipalities that merge, without setting any rational criteria, without relying on your opinion. Well, where is the analysis of what was wrong in the previous model, with the urban expansion of cities while neglecting and destroying the built heritage? Where is the analysis of the achieved degree of heritage protection? Where is the analysis of where the surpluses generated by urbanism go? In 90% they're going to stand by the private hand of the promoters, and in this law it's still reduced. Where is the analysis of what has allowed urban corruption in this country? What to do, we say, because it is already time to explain alternatives to a government that we believe is exhausted because it does not have the ability to move strongly enough the problems they need it. We have to make a territorial reconfiguration of the country. This spatial planning must shape a new Galician political-administrative structure that will allow for better action towards citizenship and its resources. That formulates an internal nation structure consistent with the objectives of balanced development: the recovery of rural areas, the brake to metropolitan congestion, the setting of landscape value and specific criteria for sustainable environmental management. Well, now we're going with the text itself. The bill it presents today is inspired and continues to be inspired by the model of liberalization and deregulation promoted by the Government of the People's Party in the 1990s, with the effects that we have already commented on and we all know: large numbers of empty housing – 300,000 in this country –; accelerated degradation of environmental, natural and cultural landscape values; increase in housing prices; deterioration of the built heritage and identity of the cities and villages of Greece; massive indebtedness of the middle and low classes of this country; gradual reduction of the useful land surface; explosion of the real estate bubble. And you don't change, you still bet on it. We believe that urbanism must be a public function that must have other purposes of general interest. You keep making it easy to reclassify and classify rustic soil. The paradox of this inefficient and unsustainable model is the coexistence of degraded or infra-urbanized urban spaces with areas of urban expansion, to the detriment of agrarian lands or with natural or landscaped values. If you want to prioritize the rehabilitation and regeneration of the already built areas, of the already built heritage, and of the use of empty housing, you have to restrict the expansion areas, and in this law they don't. They provide facilities to reclassify, for example, simply as in Article 23, which will allow the rustic soil to be reclassified to those soils necessary to complete its urban structure. With something as vague as this, you can suppose this will be a spoon. You also make it easy to reclassify rustic lands that should be excluded from urban expansion. It is permitted to reclassify the rustic soil of ordinary protection and that of special protection. It facilitates changes in plans for changes in use and an increase in urban use in an area, up to 30%, without the need to provide for more public resources and without community participation in the surpluses. Article 13, up to 30% without provision for public appropriations or participation in surpluses. Article 13. It does not set limits for soil reclassifications and reclassifications, although the set of changes implies an increase of more than 20% of the total plan buildingability. Free bar. You go beyond the limits laid down in the state ground law. You haven't analyzed the impact of this bill on the rural environment, which represents 88% of the territory of Galicia. The regulation of the uses of rustic soil and building conditions are homogeneous throughout the territory, regardless of the differences between protected natural spaces, suburban areas, the coast, the mountain. The plan is not allowed to regulate the conditions of use and construction in rustic soil, and you say it increases municipal autonomy. If that 88% remains out for the municipalities, they cannot make determinations or planning of the rustic soil, and will be reduced to a sectoral vision, which is quite the opposite of an integral vision of the country. Thus, the global, integral and horizontal vision of territorial and urban planning disappears. It's replaced by a partial, fragmented and disintegrated view of sectoral legislation. Then they continue to base – as I said before – all planning in the city hall figures, which, as it is known, respond to strictly local logics, even competition, and often are not able to regulate the processes of urbanization and land occupation in a rational way. Control of land use by the autonomous urban authority almost completely disappears, the need for authorization is maintained only in two assumptions, and for the granting of the municipal licence it is always required to obtain the authorization of the body with sectoral competence. The protected rustic soil is substantially reduced and the uses allowed in all rustic soils. In many cases, in addition, it can be incompatible with each other: it can allow mining in a soil that has landscape or environmental values to preserve. You say you use the law of the soil as a weapon for rural development. Rural development needs other policies, and soil law needs to adapt to the socio-economic model. You go back to the free bar, and probably even give them results at the electoral level, but it's very sad for us. It is very sad for us that, in that consensus that you ask, you are unwilling to take the risk of public interest, of general interest. You follow the hunt for the vote and are trapped by election times. You again reduce the minimum building plot, from 5,000 square meters to 2,000 meters, in Article 35. And it is allowed to regularize the property in rustic soil to convert the plots into buildings; in Article 149, for example. There may be a landlord who has a plot of 10,000 and four of 500, and can turn into 5 of 2,000. Is this how much land you want for this country? Are you still going back to the 2002 Law? As has been said here, buildings prior to 1975, with the entry into force of the new law, can be extended or changed. For example, an agricultural shed or an aquaculture vessel licensed in 2015 may be converted into residential use by this law. As for the rural nuclei, they could demolish traditional constructions, which with the Louga was forbidden. Urban parcels for edificatory purposes and the construction of serial dwellings will be allowed, unless it is prohibited in the plan. It will involve the possibility of developing urban and real estate operations without public appropriations and without community participation in the surpluses. Demolition of traditional or ethnographic buildings is permitted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u27	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u28	Urban standards of quality are reduced, with discrimination that we don't understand. For municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, quality standards will not be required. The people who live in towns of less than 5,000 inhabitants don't need public equipment, they don't need green areas, they don't need educational equipment areas, they don't need public protection housing under this law, and if they don't, they won't deny me. Municipal autonomy is reduced -- it doesn't give me much time. And finally, Counselor, it doesn't give me time to say everything I wanted to say and that it's expressed in our amendment to the whole. I'm done. Citizen participation. Look, it was a great opportunity for citizen participation to stop being the one who designed the state law of 1956. Citizen participation must be from the zero minute, with prior information and the minute from the definition of urbanism. It cannot continue to be that of the allegations from an initial document. That's a participation called "infantized" of citizenship. You're still, in public participation of the citizenry, in 1956. And that's from the things that seem more serious to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u30	...this project of land law, in addition to the fact that it does not really deal with the solution of the country's structural problems. It's just that you don't even accompany in times what is normal citizen participation in any other kind of instrument. You say the planning instruments will be on the website. That's not citizen participation. You, on the other hand, when you arrived in 2009, have just removed all the contents of [] from the page of the Environmental and Infrastructure Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u32	...strategic environmentals, which before they could be accessible, and you came and eliminated. Of course, it seems they're not very comfortable with transparency in this case. In the next intervention I will try to complete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u33	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. You bring us to the full today a bill. It will, if the majority of the People's Party so imposes, the fourth Law of the grounds of Galicia, which comes, justly, when the law currently in force, the Louga, will fulfill 13 years on December 30th of this month. You were telling us that the objective of this bill that they bring today is to give stability and protect the rural environment. Actually, we think it's exactly the opposite of the purpose of this bill, or, if that's what you say, the project that brings us in really gets the opposite of what you want. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group has called for the full amendment of this bill. We understand, we see clearly and can discuss it in any forum – not only in the ten minutes or in the fifteen minutes we have here – that this is an unmodified version – as it has been said – of the law currently in force, or not only thinned, but is a devalued and worsened version of the vegent Law of the soil. It's an expunged version, which eliminates fundamental, fundamental and positive elements of the law that are in force instead of eliminating useless, far-sighted or unnecessary. This bill that you bring us today brings back to the situation before the 1997 Land Law. Even some apparently or intentionally positive aspect of this bill brings so many negative conditioners that it does not allow to be admitted in the terms in which it is formulated. I'll try to explain, as far as time is concerned, in a graphical way what I'm talking about. First, they disappear from the law – certainly because you consider it unnecessary – definitions that are absolutely basic and that refer to urban powers, to responsibilities derived from urban competition, or even to the purposes that the urban activity must preside over, which in the applicable law are set out in Articles 3, 4 and 5. By setting a practical example, Article 4 of the current law, which defines the purposes of urban activity, in its subparagraph (a) defines as an objective to ensure that it is only used in accordance with the public utility and the social function of the property. Paragraph (b) says that it must be an end to urban activity to prevent the unequal allocation of benefits and charges between owners and ensure their fair distribution. (c) To ensure the participation of the community in the surpluses generated by urban activity. Or in subparagraph (d) To preserve the physical environment, traditional values, identity signs and historical memory of Galicia. What's superfluous about this? Why are you bothering them? Who does it really disturb that these should be the goals that preside over urban activity? A second aspect that contradicted what you just told us, Counselor, is that in our judgment this law greatly increases the use of concepts that we could define as legally indeterminate. I'll try to give you a practical example. Article 22.1(a) Activities prohibited. It says: the buildings and uses of which typology is inappropriate are prohibited. What's this concept of impropriety? There are jurists in your group, whether they are adjusted or not adjusted to the law, whether they comply or not comply with the law, but own or inappropriate is a markedly subjective concept, which can also give rise to a multitude of problems. Or 22.1), those earth movements that vary the morphology of the landscape of the place are prohibited. I mean, everyone, because a movement of lands or a excavation, by definition, varies the morphology. It is necessary to specify exactly what they mean. Another example I'm going to propose. Just rustic. The rustic soil is defined as exclusion. What's only rustic? It's not urban or urbanizable. 95% 96% or 97% of Galician territory is defined as exclusion. But where – let's say – reaches the zenith the definition is in the rustic soil of ordinary protection. I'm going to read to you literally – I think it's Article 27 or 29 – it says: Ordinary only rustic protection are: a) those who are not susceptible to urban transformation. (b) those who consider planning unnecessary or inappropriate for their urban transformation. That is, 90% of the territory is defined not only by exclusion, but by its residual character. Residual to 90% of the territory? It seems absolutely contradictory. Is it so hard to define what the rustic soil is? I'll give you another example. Buildings of a traditional character. Counsellor, do you know that article 36.4 says: Traditional buildings will be considered to be the existing ones prior to Law 19/1975 of 2 May. I mean, the traditional house in Galicia is the one before May 2, 1975. How many of our countrymen – with great sacrifice on their part – who went to Switzerland, came and made their home in Tyrolean style? And this is a traditional place in Galicia? Or how many that had less resources did they make of saw cement or seen brick, and they're there. And are those now, by law, going to be considered traditional housing? Is it not possible to say something else about this or to do something else, in some way? A third aspect is that it invades or nullifies municipal powers. It's all the opposite of what you said here. You said you were strengthening these municipal powers. It's all backwards. The first case, and the worst of all, is what happens to the municipalities of less than 5.00 inhabitants, who directly lose urban competence. And I want to tell you something, Counselor. I beg you to pay attention to me because, perhaps, this still has a solution. Here was a compromise in this House, solemnly expressed by a fellow who is now part of the board of directors, that the councils would have the power to draft the basic plans on their own initiative. I'm going to read to you what Article 61 says: The city council will formulate the municipal basic plans, and will be able to promote the collaboration of the municipalities or other entities in their drafting. I mean, you're not even obliged to let them participate. Not only does the initiative correspond to the Union, but they don't even have the right to participate in the municipalities. No, no, article 61. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I just literally transcribed it. That has to change, this is a real nonsense. And they're also equal to a county with a neighborhood association or a sports club. This can't be. Secondly, you assume the responsibility and competence of these 200 Galician municipalities – 2/3 of Galician municipalities – to make them the basic municipal plans. Why do you want that competition, Counselor? You used to talk about the land management guidelines. You know that the land management guidelines provide for their development through the figure -- you'll tell me after the integrated territorial plans. Do you know how many integrated territorial plans did the Galician Union make? Zero. How much you got in writing? Zero. How many are in processing? Zero. Why do you want to hold on to that competition if you don't have the ability to develop it? Do you know how much you take in 2016 budgets to develop integrated territorial plans? 92,000 euros. That's not for nothing! We're talking about rural management, Counsellor - more than 90% of the territory - and it's totally unprotected. Article 30.2a), only rustic agricultural protection. They are rustic soils of agricultural protection or land of partial concentration and those delimited in the corresponding official catalogue by the relevant sectoral body. Do you know how many soils of agricultural protection are in the corresponding official catalogue? None, because there is no corresponding sectoral catalogue, does not exist, is not done; therefore, there is none. And do you know how many alone are protected by being a party concentration object? I'm sure you don't know. In Galicia there are 3,778 rural parishes. And do you know how many times the concentration was made? In 750. There's 3,028 where it's not done. I mean, 80% of Galicia's rural soil disappears because it won't enjoy any kind of protection, because it's excluded from the two protected categories you collect. Article 30.2b). This one's even worse. Only rustic forest protection. It consists of the joint neighbouring mountains and those delimited in the corresponding official catalogue by the relevant sectoral body. The ones in the official catalogue, I've already said there's no official catalogue, therefore none; only the mountains are left in common. What about the oak trees that are not in common, Counselor? What about the burning soils that are protected by today's law, that can't be built? Why does that kind of protection arise? But look, not only do I protect you, but they prevent the municipalities from protecting you. And I ask you to take a look at Article 30.3, which says this: "The Town Councils" – I don't read it all "prejudice appropriate" – right "and express compliance of the administration that bears sectoral competence, they can protect." In other words, if a council wants to protect a single, it has not only to justify it, which I think is reasonable, but to have express authorization from the competent sectoral administration. I mean, you still have to ask permission to protect the floor. Is that autonomy? Is that the competition you give to the municipalities? Look, I think it's nothing by chance, and they're reopening the spit to repeat all that happened with the law of 1985 and 1997: the proliferation of tens of thousands of homes scattered throughout Galicia's countryside, increasing the ground for agricultural and livestock uses and generating an absolutely unsustainable and unsustainable urbanistic model. They return to the minimum plot of 2,000 meters and to the same requirements as the 1997 Land Law. So if we go back to it, it'll happen again. Just like what happened here. And in the meantime, what about the 30,000 nuclei of population? I'm falling apart! Do you know how much it takes in budgets to recover those 30,000 nuclei and the half a million housings there? One million euros. That's what you're wearing. That is, 2 euros per dwelling; 30 euros per nucleus. It's obvious that all of this is going to fall. They also sell unreal simplification. I ask you to take a look at him, because he no longer gives me time, two very small themes. First. The Board has three months to report on all issues. Do you know how much you give to the municipalities – article 143. Fifteen days to resolve requests made in previous communication. And if he doesn't solve them, what's the matter? That's why you're gonna get one of the two things, or maybe both of them. One: a collapse of all municipalities, which have to resolve all requests in fifteen days; or a generalized colander, with the consequences that it will soon have. Besides, why do they say that, if that doesn't say the Entrepreneurship Act? Why do they give that period? Why do they set that time limit, unlike what they give to you? Second. There is an absolute lack of will to comply with the law. You spoke before there are 83 Galician municipalities that have planning adapted to the 2003 Law; 13 years later, 73% of Galician municipalities have not adapted to it. And you know why? For two fundamental reasons. One, because of the difficulties of adaptation. And another, because you need to be stupid to adapt. I mean, the reality of the matter is, if a council doesn't adapt, it has a lot more facilities and it's in a better position than what it adapts. You're telling the mayors of the countryside: you take the sacrifice of getting angry with all your neighbors to adapt to the law, but if you don't adapt, nothing happens. Then they don't adapt! There are 3 cities, from the 7th of Galicia, which have no planning adapted to the law, and 232 municipalities. And there are municipalities that have been 27 years, in some case years or decades dwindling the partridge to not adapt, because there's no imperative mandate and nothing happens to them. How can it be that municipalities that don't adapt to the law are more easily and in a better position than those that adapt? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if that's the goal you're telling me, and I don't have to doubt your word, but I have to give precedence to the facts. And the facts tell us that you're bringing us a bill that's a devaluation, it's a discount and it's a less technical law, less legal solvency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u36	...that the law they intend to replace. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask, propose and we will vote on the return of this bill. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Non-amendant group. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are bringing here the debate, Counselor, a law that has three fundamental challenges; so we see it, of course, from the benches of the People's Party. First goal: no county without PXOM. I think it's an important and ambitious challenge, and of course, with the provisions laid down in this law, it can be achieved. A bet for a live rural and no building yet finished. I have just listened carefully to the statement of the Counselor as well as the statements of the various spokesmen of the other groups, and one thing must be said. It was criticized by some group, even by some people who are now not here, the fact that this document was not discussed, that it was brought about for election reasons and things like that. I had the honour of presiding over a commission two years ago exactly. So there was no Mixed Group, there was not the Mixed Group, some people who spoke here, but I had the honour to preside over that commission where there were attendances of 32 people elected by all spokesmen from different parliamentary groups; where they participated from neighbors, associations, unions, collectives, professional schools, etc. Each one, whom he thought appropriate to propose. Ten long sessions of the committee where there was debate, where there was intervention from all over the world, where there were questions and even opinions and amendments by each. Curiously, Mr. Bugallo, he would wake up from his phone calls running through the halls, because then it was Mr. Besteiro, today I don't know who is being sent at the PSOE, but then Mr. Besteiro sent it, and Mr. Besteiro said "no" to vote for the 100 percent of the amendments proposed by the Socialist Party. The PP accepted 100 percent of the initiatives and proposals, and the PSOE didn't want to. He voted against it because Mr. Besteiro, on the phone, said he couldn't be. You remember that, don't you, Mr Bugallo? I understand your placard was complicated, but that's how it is. I also see that in the amendments itself to the whole thing that you do now there are some things that you put on that you don't put on now. That means they've somehow been corrected, if they've been taken into account, even though they don't accept them, issues like those of management, or as another series of things that, if I have time, I'll talk about next. It must be said that this bill has passed all the preliminary reports, as it cannot be otherwise, and among them is the report of the Economic and Social Council. But, if someone doesn't know, the Economic and Social Council is made up of trade unions: UGT, CIG, Workers' Commissions, Employers' Confederation, Agricultural Unions, Galego Labour Union, Youth Farmers' Farmers' Associations, Conferraries, Consumers, University of Coruña, University of Vigo. And the Economic and Social Council, in its favourable report, issued on 23 September of this year, of 2015, says: "Among the aspects which in the preliminary draft", in the opinion of the ESC, " deserve a positive assessment, it is necessary to mention: (a)The effort to move forward in simplification and administrative axillization". I listened to the benches from here backwards. "(b)The reorientation of the development model." Mr. Sánchez, I suppose you read it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u40	Mr. Beiras was not pleased with the intervention of the second, Mr. Sánchez, who has to participate. But, Mr. Beers, you didn't come here, and, please, I held up and listened with respect to all the other participants. You have to give the note, man! if not, you're not comfortable. "The reorientation of the development model, from one based on growth to another more sustainable, oriented towards promoting rehabilitation, renewal and urban regeneration." That's what this law means. Totally according to this assessment of the ESC, where – I say – there is a plurality of agents who intervene there. And thirdly, they praised the introduction of the Autonomic Basic Plan. Yes, because it's an instrument that can serve for many municipalities that do not have economic potential to carry out the development of a plan. Sometimes economic potential, or even political potential, because, let's be honest, the development of a general plan has more political cost than municipal corporations and municipal governments than even economic costs. So we have to be realistic if we want to get things straight, and that's what there is. And then, indeed, it emits a series of observations, most of a formal nature, which must say... yes, yes, yes, read... but you have to say... and I suppose you saw the report, and most of them are collected in the bill that comes here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have made it clear that it is a project to move forward in clarification, simplification and administrative axillization. There are some axile procedures, and saying the opposite would be wrong. It is important to ensure that the council itself, through the General Secretariat of Urbanism, concentrates all reports that depend on the Board. Logically, it would also be great if the same thing had happened at the state level. You'll have to work to get the state to have a body where they send you there and manage everyone. I think it's an important goal. But the first step is that the Union itself concentrates, with only one processing, all the sectoral reports within three months. Otherwise, it would be positive. And municipal autonomy, giving them more opportunities and management to the municipalities themselves. Four trials, four licenses of different uses, go to fourteen, and that's to take care of municipal autonomy. The orientation of the model? Clearly, it is guiding the model towards the completion, to the close of urban structures, where they will be able only to put urbanizable soils, for example, in the urban nucleus environment. No, Mr. Sánchez, you won't be able to. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The scattered urbanizations are banned, that's clearly. So don't say what's not because it's not like that; no, it's not like that. Not to scattered urbanizations. It is a brake on that precisely, among other things, by the urban costs of services; i.e. the costs of providing services. Logically, what is meant is to close the fence of cities and urban nuclei in that sense, introducing an autonomous and municipal basic plan. He's a volunteer, Mr. Bugallo. Besides, look at you, we're talking about the number of municipalities, and you're talking about the deprotection of rural areas. It's important, 84 municipalities adapted, 27% of the territorial area; 173 that have some kind of planning – subsidiary rules, delimitations or you will know – of the 1980s or so, not adapted to Law 9, and 57 municipalities that have no type of planning. Is there more incretion, and even less protection, than having nothing, Mr. Bugallo? And you're putting trouble on the basic plans? I'm sure if you ask – you and someone else today – if you ask the mayors of all political colors – including theirs – how they value the figure of the Basic Plan, municipal and autonomic, they'll tell you to applaud your ears. Yes, because it's the only possibility that these municipalities have an urban regulation. And there's no worse deprotection than the one that doesn't exist. Because on paper we can put what we want, but it's not like that. And in the protection of the countryside, it's totally false what you say. Rural people don't lose protection, much less, what needs to be adapted to protections is reality, which is different. You can take some plan done right now – and I put Lugo's example to you, which I assure you I know quite well – and what can't be is pulling the beams like this, where I want to go, and that's yes and no. Is there anything safer legally? Does the legal certainty that you claim exists in those plots, in those random delimitations of a councillor that can be, for example, Lines – which is what happened in Lugo – or Mr. Besteiro, throws the line around here or over there? Is that legal security? No obsession, it's the reality of what happened. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, is there anything more than that? [[Applause]] No, no, no, no. [[Applause]] Because, logically, those who have to monitor the protections, and they have to do so, are the different advisories through the sector, logically, of sectoral regulations and legislation. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] In the protection of heritage, it will logically be the Law of Heritage, and in forest protection, it will be the Law of Forest. And they speak of the mountains, of the mountains that are burned, or of the forest that are burned, and that now they can be moved back. And someone told the lady counselor that she didn't know the law. Well, look, the Counselor lady knows the law and the General Secretary of Urbanism knows the Law of the ground and knows the law. Because, look at you, it's so much so that state law forbids the re-allocation of these lands, the Mountain Law prohibits the re-alignment of these lands. Yes, it's forbidden, and therefore you can't come here accusing what it isn't. You don't have to repeat twenty times the same legislation; that's not why a rule is made simpler, or much less. [[Interruptions.]] A rule must be simple, but don't repeat twenty times the same thing. And this rule and this bill is simple and applicable. Look, out of order he didn't say anything, and I missed him, Mr. Bugallo. In the committees where we had the honour to participate in the debates – and I listen to it because it was the president – I had the honour to listen to it many times, and it was a problem that worried him and was resolved. In fact, he didn't put it in the whole amendment, and he did it before. Why? It remains resolved because, fortunately, someone has thought that the buildings of the urban nuclei – or even in rural areas, but fundamentally in the urban nuclei is where it affects – that they have licensed with an effective planning, it turns out that now a new law comes, makes a new plan, and the only one they have -- they are within alignment and have everything but heights, because they lower the edificabilities, according to the new laws of the ground, planning does not fit that edificability and it turns out that, where five plants were previously allowed, four are now allowed. That building is out of order just because of that. But it's just that out of order he was carrying with him – and he's taking with him for the moment – some implication for the mortgage effects for the neighbors of these floors or those housings, which for the mortgage effects have problems. For the purposes of rehabilitation of that building there are problems, because logically the building is out of management and only works of improvement and maintenance are being allowed. Logically, does this law say? No, those who have been granted according to the regulations and licenses, if they're going to be able, and stay in the management. Logically, except for those who are affected by public roads, by green areas or by a public allocation, which will be those outside of management. It solves a problem that has a lot of Greek people who have a lot of municipalities to be able to carry out general plans. And here we have them in all political colors. They can ask at Monforte, they can ask at Sarria, or they can ask in many other municipalities what was one of the biggest problems to bring forward a general plan: that half the people were out of order, and that, logically, was neither logical nor receipt. And I really applaud, Counselor, to you and the predecessors who had part in this law; I applaud that decision because it is very, very, very important. Mr. Bugallo, he talked about a lot of things, and I'd really like to have a lot more time to beat certain things. One, the minimum plot of 2,000 square meters. And he says we're back in the '90s, when the houses were scattered across the countryside. Yeah, the one about: you're gonna do it. As the law, for example, on the Lugo Plan, allowed 30 houses a year in rustic soil – which allowed it to be permitted by law – you will, even if I didn't give you a license, I'll give it to you for the following year. That was a tactic that Mr. Orozco and Mr. Besteiro did a lot, and now they're pulling, unfortunately, some of those unlicensed housing. In fact, with a plot, then 2,000 feet [2,000 m], it was given a housing, residential housing. But it's just that now, Mr. Bugallo, it's not so, that's false. Only and exclusively a minimum share is made for farm-related housing. And guardianships, that these licenses have to be given to Junta. Mr. Bugallo, let's not demagogy because what we do is a terrible damage to Galicia, and that's what we're doing. Let's tell the truth. The same thing that's said to be taken from traditional buildings. I think there are people who don't read the law or read it the way they want it. Article 22(d) In incompatible and therefore prohibited uses. The demolition of existing buildings, except for the following assumptions. We're talking about except-... Wait, wait, I'm telling you, except, I suppose we're all in agreement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Constructions that do not have special architectural and ethnographic value, and all build plugins. Well, I suppose a traditional building with a stick, could take down the stick, which is what it's meant to be. So don't manipulate it, much less. And there's something that worries me, Mr. Bugallo, because I have it for a serious person, really. You say in your claim – and here's something – that sine die is allowed, in the first transitional provision, inappropriate planning. I think you've been wrong, the ones you're allowed to do are the adapted ones. Because the non-adapted is transitional provision point two, and I'm going to read it: "The plans approved definitely prior to the entry into force of this law, and not adapted to Law 9/2002, will retain its vigency until its revision or adaptation of it consonates the following rules...:" –wait, read everything, do not read only a part–... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u42	...–Filled, just a second, please – "...an urban soil that meets the conditions of consolidated urban soil 13A" – these are the rules that apply, those of this law – "an urban ground of 13B" – an urban soil equivalent to that of unconsolidated – The urbanized soil? Just like the urbanizable soil delimited by this law. [[Murmurs.]] And the undelimited urbanizable soil and the rustic soil, like the rustic soil of this law. So what applies to those unadapted plans is this law, not the planning in force. Yes, sir, what you cannot, logically, is to nullify; therefore, you are applying this law. Look, Mr. Bugallo, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u44	...and I hope – to end, Mr President – that they participate widely in the amendments. We will logically start in the debate. And don't miss the opportunity – especially all PSOE gentlemen – to join this law. We're going to get all the municipalities in Galicia to have an urban rule, a planning, a general plan, and that's an important challenge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u45	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u46	We're going to end the constructions out of order and we're going to end the fesism. They add up to this, don't pass it to them as it happened to others, who protested on the Atlantic highway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u47	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u48	...and today they still have that sword...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u49	It's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u50	...on his head. Don't let that happen to them, socialist gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u51	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Amending groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u52	I believe that all opposition groups have set out many reasons for this law to be withdrawn and conceived as a complete law that really ensures the protection of the soil, that really ensures the rural environment, the rustic soil, and that it solves the urban problems of cities. Actually, we all agree that this law is not, that talking about simplification doesn't mean that the law has less articles, because that's what it creates is insecurity. A law must be well explained, and when citizens return to that law they have all their rights, all their duties, which are the channels of participation and which are the documents they need. For that, what we need to provide is the use of new technologies, we have to eliminate useless procedures and we have to reduce and simplify documentation; that's simplification. That a law has fewer articles does not benefit anything, precisely simplification, definition, participation, and that things are done according to the law. On the other hand, several articles have cited here that have indefinitions, that put in danger, precisely, a sustainable development of our territory; that call into question the cohesion of the territory; that create a great legal insecurity that can create new urban conflicts, as we are looking at and how we can hear, and that will again defend the law of the jungle that we have had all these years and that has given rise to that crazy urbanism that destroyed buildings that had an architectural value and a value for citizenship. We have, of course, a lot of these cases in Vigo. Vigo's old helmet, for example, was destroyed during those years. Old stone buildings were removed in the old helmet, and modern buildings were made. And then, years later, we had to resume the recovery of Vigo's old helmet. To avoid that, of course, there is no law. This law does not guarantee that historical helmets are protected and that buildings, buildings of social interest, are built. I'll tell you again: lack of transparency, lack of participation, something they've been talking about in the last year on election grounds, in the election years, since May. This law should therefore include citizen participation, political responsibility and sanctions for politicians. And, of course, you can't make a line, and say the sanctions are these, regardless of which people affect. I already tell you, for the homes of families, for the first habitual housing, they should have a much longer term, agreed with the family, to finish the work; even the provision of help so that they can finish it; because it's also important that people enjoy safe and dignified housing. Again: access to new services to citizenship is also required, such as Internet access and gas access, which is not considered. They're talking about access to water, access to sanitation, access to electricity, but we're not talking about anything else, when then we're talking about that if all Galicia is going to have access to the long band and disappears from this law, how the architectural quality disappears, which has a lot to do with its coordination within the area where it is built. It's missing, it's wrong, as we've already said to all opposition groups, the definition of traditional housing, which cannot be linked simply to the building year. And I repeat again, for example, that of Vigo's old helmet; all those animals as they did before the year 75 would be all traditional and therefore fit into a historical helmet, when it's absolutely a lie. And then, of course, they should return their autonomy to the municipalities. What they want and what they've already wanted with the amendment of the local regime law and what they're trying again with this law, of course, is to eliminate the powers of the municipalities, that these are dependent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u54	... –I will finish, Mr President – of the authorizations of the Galician Union, and if, therefore, they really try to reach consensus, if they really believe that this law has to be born with the broadest possible consensus, the best they can do to prove it is to take this law, accept its return and present a new text that really responds to current problems and does not create problems for the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u56	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, about the intervention of the People's Group, I'm just saying that slogans are very good, but then reality is much more crusader. So, tell us here that they're going to bet on a live rural or no housing without finishing, I think it's almost like a ton of hair, when the policy that really affects rural problems, because it has more to do with the lack of support for our dairy sector, the dismantling of our productive sectors or with a policy of economic drowning of the popular classes, which prevents many dwellings from ending. By the way, I don't understand how if you cared so much about these kinds of issues, for example, in the Housing Council, nothing else comes near you, what you did because it was precisely to suppress any help that was available for rural people to finish their homes. I suppose it's the way you support that no housing remains unfinished. We also say in that sense that we do not believe that this law will bring anything positive. For example, they introduce an amendment to the possibility of renewal of licences, which says that when a person does not finish his residence in rural areas, instead of helping him and being able to extend the licence to finish that housing, what they're going to do is not extend that license to him. We believe that it is just the opposite policy and that they will continue to deepen because precisely the problems this country has. Of course, there was a study commission... –well, I know that Mr. Castineiras is not interested in the debate – of course there was a study committee, there was a study committee, and what happened to the conclusions of that study committee? That the People's Party imposed its dictates and did not accept any changes, neither of the groups, nor really substantial modifications, nor any substantial changes proposed by the people who came to appear. It's very good to do a commission, but then if the PP does exactly the same thing as before doing that commission and doesn't answer the reasons or the reasons, what's the point of doing a commission? To make people waste their time? So you really say your opinion has nothing to do with it? Of course, that was really what that commission was for. I also think it is very inappropriate for you to quote the Galician Economic and Social Council, because the Galician Economic and Social Council does not say that this law will be the solution to all the problems of urbanism. And it has been forgotten to quote the third point – you could have read it too – which says: among the aspects to improve, a high indetermination of concepts and terms used could be appreciated that could create legal insecurity or result in situations of arbitrariness, even though in the explanatory statement the bet is indicated for territorial protection, in particular for defense of rustic soil as productive and useful soil that must be collected and empowered. The ESC considers that this does not reflect on the articulation, since it leaves much of the regulation on the subject at the expense of development instruments. This means a decrease in the legal degree of protection of the rustic soil with respect to the previous regulations. Right, Mr. Castineira? So you can't say that there's an organism here that's praising a legislation, when really what this organism is saying is that you're unprotecting the rural environment. We're not going into the debate of the Land Law to make this a particular cause against anyone, but you, if you're so obsessed with talking about Lugo or other people, could see what happened to urbanism in this country in the hands of the People's Party. We can talk about Barriers, we can talk about Mine, we can talk about Sanxenxo, right? I think the General Secretariat of Urbanism has much to do with the urban disaster that has occurred in this county and with some cases of dubious legality. And look, article 79, if you want to talk, because you come here and say that we're not talking rigorously. In Article 79, when it comes to changing plans, you explain why the bans on conversion from rustic to urban or exceptions to reclassify as urbanizable rustic soil that suffered fires disappear. What does that mean? Why is that gone? Because they're going to allow you to reclassify burned areas with urbanizables, and also because you know that many of the material and formal obstacles have been removed to reclassify or modify the rustic soil. It's a reality that's present in the articulate, because here we're not talking about abstract things, we're talking about laws, and the laws, when they have content, are very clear about their interpretation, and then, if you really agree that you won't be able to reclassify as urbanizable the rustic soil that was burned, because they will accept the amendments in the processing that we're going to present about this. We're going to have a lot of time to be able to talk about these issues, because what we're looking at is how the People's Party has no arguments, comes here with an argumentary that has nothing to do with the law we're debating today, and what's clear is that this law, this bill won't solve the problems of urbanism, it's going to create new problems and influence a liberalizing path of the soil, destructive of our heritage and that for nothing will improve the conditions of the municipalities. And if not, in time. Another failure for the urbanism of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u58	Well, it's a bit depressing to see that for the People's Party the problem is not a lack of comprehensive vision of the country, it's not the lack of development of the territorial management instruments, the lack of development of the administrative instruments of organization in comarcas, in metropolitan areas – they're necessary – the lack of development of studies, the classification of soils according to their uses, the lack of development of tools for the protection of heritage; as was said earlier, the heritage protection professionals have to go to look at the restoration tokens, as in the middle of the 19th century, and they didn't even scan and refer to them. The problem for the People's Party is not the 300,000 empty homes, as long as there are evictions. The problem of the People's Party is not that, as the city centers are abandoned, the real estate speculation promoted by the People's Party expands, destroying soils of agronomic, landscape and environmental attitudes. The problem of the People's Party, by the way, is not urban corruption in the years of the real estate bubble. The problems here said by the spokesperson of the People's Party of Urbanism, and how to manage the territory of this country, are that all the municipalities contain a general plan of municipal management and fesism. Home! Have you read anything about theorization of feism? I don't understand. What's the spell? Or Gaiás? May the buildings, which end the Gaiás, end the hundreds of public buildings in the Galician Union that are unfinished? Those are the two big problems? After all I've told you about, what happened in this country, the two big problems are that we have a general plan in every county. As long as there is no country vision, that every general plan that means is a kingdom of tayffs, where everyone does their ordination without having to manage at the comarcal level or in the metropolitan areas, it doesn't matter. Have a general plan. No, that's a medium, it's not an objective. The goal is that rural people develop in this country, that there is rational and sustainable mobility, that there is housing for people and not living for speculators. Those are the targets, which you obviously don't want to fight. Is it the goal to have a general plan? No, no, no, no. The general plan should be a legal instrument rather than an economic-legal development tool adapted to a pre-existing socio-economic model, which you don't have. That's what must be a general plan; in no case, an end in itself. And the feism, they go to others with the feism, with a huge superficiality. And then you say several falsehoods. The ESC – man!, you're a little skilful, because you've spent a lot of time talking about Bester, it must be that you didn't have a lot of arguments – 46 claims, you say you're not protecting the countryside, precisely because you, in the thirty years you've been in government, haven't developed the necessary tools for the protection of the rustic, which is the classification of the uses of the soil, of your aptitude. And the ESC says that because of this, rural protection is unprotected by this Law of the ground and can generate legal insecurity and arbitraryness. You're talking about simplification. No, look, simplification doesn't mean the elimination of necessary procedures for heritage and environmental protection, which is what you're going to do with positive silence. The positive silence you don't use for the dependents, those who have now put to them last year in the Law of negative fiscal and administrative measures, i.e. wait three months and if you don't answer the Administration, negative silence. Instead, you, for private promoters, will make them a positive silence. It means that the imposition of short deadlines for the processing of private initiative plans implies a significant reduction in municipal autonomy in favour of private promoters, so that there is no possibility of processing complex files in impossible times, because it is necessary to put resources to the councils, the Administration must be used to do the heritage protection studies, all necessary studies, this impossibility will translate the administrative silence into a course patent to build anything anywhere. This is an outcome, especially relevant in the case of approval of special plans for tourist uses of private equipment in rustic soil. This is a spoon. You say that the urbanizable soil is limited to what is necessary to..., look, I read Article 23: "Only urbanizable. The land that planning considers necessary and appropriate to enable population and economic activity to grow or to complete its urban structure will be the urbanized soil." This is nothing, this is nothing for its growth in population and economic activity, that's nothing. You said: in the previous law it was forbidden to demolish traditional dwellings. In this case, you said: except for constructions that do not present a special architectural, historical and ethnographic value. Who defines that and how defines that? Won't it be a spoon to tear down houses in the countryside? What's with a special ethnographic value? What are the criteria? They're not defined. And I wanted to ask a very specific little thing to the advisor, an article that seems to us to be made ex-professional for what is happening with the port of the Coruña, with the port of the Coruña, of the land of San Diego. Articles 1810, 26 and 38.6.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u59	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u60	–I'm finishing this up. The urban use that corresponds to the municipality in all the new urban development of unconsolidated urban soil and urbanizable soil 10% goes to the promoter when it comes to a state or autonomous body or company, which is unjustified. It is done to ensure that it remains for the Harbour Authority of the Coruña the urban use that would previously remain for the Town Hall of the Coruña. It's scandalous. You therefore failed in the planning of the territory. They don't even have the ability to develop the instruments capable of solving the structural problems of this country, and they come with an eleventh amendment to the previous law that aggravates the problems. For you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u62	...in recent years nothing has happened, Sanxenxo didn't happen, Barriers didn't happen, the defeats didn't happen. For you, it's all the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u63	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Briefly and telegraphly I'll try to answer. In the end, of course, there's a majority of the People's Group here, which we don't escape. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u66	...we are very afraid that it will happen today or now the same thing that just happened at the previous point. And therefore the Socialist Parliamentary Group will present a good number of amendments. They'd be more likely, if we had a little longer, to get the bill out as better as possible. We will do our best, among other things, because our party bears great responsibilities in the local administration and what is best for everyone, and what is not best for everyone in the end will be a problem for everyone. But that doesn't change our overall vision of the project that is being submitted to us today. Mr. Castineira said that 100 percent of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group were admitted. It's not like that. There's only one that has been fully admitted, which is the relative to out-of-order dwellings and buildings. The rest were admitted according to the popular party's sieve and secondly it seemed to the People's Party, in some case neither. For example, I'm talking about the municipal basic plans being on the municipal initiative and only on a subsidiary basis, if the council was either giving up or having no capacity or not running, it would become an autonomous initiative. There was a formal, public and notorious commitment, collected by the press, which today the bill passed to this Parliament in its Article 60.1 is completely dissuasive. I would also like to tell you that from the point of view of the administrative simplification the Counsellor may perhaps make a consultation with Andalucía, which in some way is taking up the experience of the former provincial commissions of urbanism, where the General Administration of the State is, and if a single report is issued that collects the report from all public administrations, because unfortunately today any council that has to make a general plan knows that it is torture, because sometimes the same ministry has to ask for three different reports, and the same council would still be. Lugo. Look, from Lugo I won't speak to Mr. Castineira, because he knows more than me and because he voted in favour of the plan. So it shouldn't be so bad. And by the way, that plan was approved by the Galician Council, so I understand that it must comply with the current regulations. So stop messing with Mr. Orozco and Mr. Besteiro, that neither of them are part of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u68	Yes, but you voted in favour of Lugo of that plan, so it shouldn't be wrong. Another issue that I want to make clear: single-family housing in rural areas. Tell me you're going to have to authorize Junta, which will have to be guaranteed for its rural use. Look, as in the Law of 1997. And the result was over 20,000 or 30,000 homes scattered throughout Galician rural areas, none of which practically had agricultural activity. I know a very good case, which is Santiago's. Only in Santiago, 2,000, 2,000 made by emergency procedure with autonomous authorization. Agrarian use? If there are two of 2,000, I think so. So you're opening that same barn again now. The first transitional provision, paragraph 2. Read it all. (c) "Only in the field of rural nuclei or non-urbanizable land delimitations of rural nuclei in their areas of influence or tolerance shall apply fully the provisions of the respective planning", not in the law, in the respective planning. That's intolerable, because at the end of the day what is consecrated is that what doesn't work out for the rest of his life, and it's benefited, and that's what you can't consent to. Only rustic special protection. Counselor, I'll draw your attention again. As defined here, 80% of the rustic soil remains unprotected. Only 750 parishes in 3,778 have partial concentration, and catalogues do not exist, there is no catalogue, it is not done, so they are not applied to these catalogues. There is another important theme: the motivation for changing plans. The current law explains that plans can only be modified for reasons of duly accredited public interest. Why does that disappear, why does that disappear from the new bill? In short, ladies and gentlemen, it's a low version, it's a low version...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u70	...shortened from the current law in force. Not only does it not solve the problems of the law, but it will create a lot more problems. That's why we asked for your return. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to this bill. We started with the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed to Galician Soil Law Project The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u72	We voted for the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Land Law Project The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u73	We voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Alternative Galician Left to the Galician Land Law Project The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u74	Finally, we voted for the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of Galician Socialists to the Galician Land Law Project The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u75	Therefore, having rejected the amendments tabled, the bill continues with its parliamentary processing. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2. Voting of the proposed framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A., approved by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u76	The plenary session of Parliament, held on 10 November 2015, discussed the proposal for a framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A., adopted by Commission 1a. If the required majority of two-thirds have not been reached, in accordance with Article 32 of Law 9/2011 of 9 November, of the public media for audiovisual communication in Galicia, and of the fourth standard of regulators of this procedure, the vote shall be put to the vote again and shall be approved by a majority of three-fifths. If you do not obtain the majority, you will be included in the next plenary session for a new vote. We therefore voted for the proposed framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A. Voting of the proposed framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A., approved by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u77	By not having the required majority of three fifths in this second vote, it will be included in the next plenary meeting, and it would be approved if the absolute majority of the members of the House were reached. We move on to the next item on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I don't remember giving you the floor, Mr. Beers. Do the favor. Agenda item 3, full appearances. Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to report on the integrated emergency care management model in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u78	Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for his first speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u79	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before the House to account for the situation of the integrated emergency care system in Galicia, considering that everything done so far, the path taken up to now and the challenges facing us in 2016, because they justify this appearance and the planning of all the facts, as I say, and all that we have before us. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt emergency services constitute a fundamental allowance for citizenship today, perhaps not of the most visible ones, but I am sure – and I think that we all agree – of the most necessary. It's about responding when people need it most, when they're especially vulnerable, in emergency situations, at risk to physical integrity and even in disaster situations. And in circumstances like this is when they intervene and when emergency services are needed that provide security and that in many cases they are used to save lives. So I want to start this show by thanking the essential work that professionals of the various emergency bodies in Galicia and their own volunteers do, all the people who ultimately and in one way or another work on the day-to-day emergencies. They deserve – I'm sure we all agree – the greatest recognition for their effort, their preparation and their vocation, which they have shown when it was necessary in a sober manner. [[Applause]] And so I think that the administrations that we have to do, not just by regulation, but by conviction, is the necessary coordination, the proper provision of resources for these emergency services, and all that is expected from an administration that gives emergencies the importance they have. I think that's why in the last few years since the German Government we've been taking the appropriate steps to strengthen our emergency service delivery model, and that's what I want to explain in this audience. It must be said that, as a result of the efforts of many years, not only in recent years, but especially in the last few years, in 2016, the Emergency Map of Galicia will finally be fully operational. The four provincial consortia will be operational, twenty-five fire stations of these four provincial consortia will be operational, there will be a more rational system that is currently being negotiated with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces of the supra-municipal emergency groups – GHG-, and there will be civil protection groups with considerably strengthened resources throughout this year, in addition to emergency services that already have the municipalities themselves and companies that are obliged to have it. It will therefore be a system led by an Agency of Emergency Galaga, an Agega, strengthened in its operation and also in its media, which will have a new building, which will have a technological platform that is fully modernized and with expanded and updated planning instruments from now on. 2016 will therefore be the year in which emergency services are consolidated in Galicia. Their troops will be better integrated through the common use of a new digital network for their communications and trained also thanks to the implementation of approved itineraries for all their members within the Galician Academy of Public Safety. And, therefore, to inform you of all these aspects, I will do it – they will allow me – through steps, starting precisely from the point of onset of all emergencies, which is the attention, listening for the first time to an emergency that creates a citizen in the integrated emergency care center, 112, which, as I say, receives the warnings that give rise to interventions when these interventions proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, it has to be said that in 2009 the Galician Union met with an emergency focus that began to be worryingly out of sight from a technological point of view and that it was operationally vulnerable to certain emergencies. The 112 emergency room at the moment could get tired of calls – in fact it's ever happened – which made users have a waiting ratio that exceeded the advisable. Today it must be said that when a Welshman or a Galician who is in an emergency situation calls not only does he receive a 24-hour response of the day the 365 days of the year – as could not be less, on the other hand – but the response he receives is a quality response. Since 2014, 112 Galicians have had an approved and audited service letter certifying this quality. In addition, in April, he received the European Certificate of Quality for Emergency Centres. We have in Galicia the second 112 that manages to achieve this qualification across Europe. And, as you like, we want to go even further, the goal for this 2016 is to achieve ISO 22.320 certification, specific for emergency centers. So we took a big step towards this goal last year by modifying the Emergency Law to impose sanctions, to punish the so-called malicious emergency requirements that occurred, which disturbed the normal functioning of the service. It has to be said that, after this change, these malicious calls have been reduced by 40% and, no doubt, this has resulted in a larger operation of 112 for calls that really need to be addressed. It's another big step two years ago when a system of attention was put in place so that people with hearing or speech difficulties could contact 112 if they needed it. And, of course, another step forward will be the transfer of this service to a high-tech infrastructure, which is the new building of the Axega, which will open in the Town Hall of the Road. This year 2015 has given this centre of all the technology you will need. This required the bidding of a total of fifteen contracts, servers, audiovisual systems, telecommunications infrastructures, telephone stations, radio stations, wiring, data processing center, etc., even a group for the new building to be self-energy. In addition, we will proceed in this building to the integration of all security groups, the 061 health emergencies, first of all, and also representatives, specialized persons of each of the emergency bodies that exist in Galicia, to make a personalized attention to each call, that are coordinated and therefore this attention is more efficient and faster. I already say that the people who use this service will have, when the new building works, presence managers for each type of emergency or emergency, which, as I said, will facilitate an immediate response – which is now producing – of quality, but is not so specialized attention. We are perfectly aware that this change implies, as it is logical, a new situation for the staff of 112. We are meeting with staff through their representatives, and through the dialogue we are sure that we will find a satisfactory solution for all. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this new building will be the core of emergency management in Galicia. It's going to be integrated and it's going to allow you to share resources with the Galaga Academy of Public Security, and it's going to be the basis of an Emergency Galician Agency, which has reinforced its operation since 2009. It was endowed with an advanced group of logistics intervention, which is capable and prepared and designed to offer – in fact, it has already done so on several occasions – a specialized response to emergencies of severe risk 24 hours a day and 365 days a year, there, in the presence, where this emergency occurs. This year we have equipped this group with more and better equipment: drones have been purchased for fire escape and control, operating material for large emergencies for this group, materials for the fight against environmental pollution, a tractor head for this group and a large nodriza tank truck, among other resources for which it has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, continuing with this process I told you, of logical explanation of emergency care, therefore of the means by which Galicia counts, once you have received the call in this centre 112, continuing with the process, what you have to do is mobilize existing resources. And we count on, to carry it out, with a tool, I believe that very important, very prominent, coordination and communication, with which there is virtually no autonomous community apart from Galicia, which is the digital emergency network, equipped with the latest communication technology, Tetra technology, which has undergone a very important investment of more than 6 million euros, but which allows Galicia to be working. It is extending – it has now begun the Extension Plan – a state-of-the-art communication technology that guarantees availability and ensures safe interconnection between all the groups involved in emergency management and practically infallible. It is going to assume, in addition, an important saving of resources, EUR 37 million in ten years, as far as the commercial networks were being used so far. And now, thanks to Retegal technology – Retegal's own infrastructure – this Tetra technology will produce an important savings – I say – of more than 3 million euros a year, which can be allocated to other emergency resources. Right now, the personnel of the Adscribed Police Unit, 061, of the fire department consortia, of the municipalities that are already connected to the network, of the cross-border zone and forest agents will count or count in a few months with about 5,000 terminals of access to this Tetra network. So, ladies and gentlemen, once you received a number 112 call, channelled through this communication system, what you do is to mobilize a wide range of services and resources, which are the force on the Greek emergency map; ultimately, the most important: the human resources that pay attention to emergencies in Galicia. As I begin by talking about one of them, one of the most important, I will begin by talking about provincial fire department consortia. You know we're coming to 2016 with a map already closed with regard to these consortia. The four provincial consortia are already formed, which comprise twenty-five fire parks in the four provinces. No effort has been made to this new stage. In 2009, only the Provincial Consortium of Coruña existed, which is already effectively constituted. And, therefore, there was a need to work everywhere to put the Provincial Consortium of Lugo into operation – six fire stations, already operational, and already functioning the Provincial Consortium of Pontevedra – and to constitute, finally, the Provincial Consortium of Ourense, which is already constituted this year 2015. This process has led to an important investment in infrastructure and material, buildings, equipment and vehicles. In this year we added to the more than 7 million euros that the Galician Union was committing annually to finance the financing of these consortia, a complementary share of about EUR 1 million, which served, in addition to purchasing material for all consortia, mainly to complete the equipment of the last pending park, the Carballino, which is already ready and ready to enter into operation and which will be bid jointly with other parks by the newly constituted Provincial Consortium of Ourense. Therefore, thanks to this work, we can say that coverage by fire parks in our community is 89.3% of the population – counting the city population – and 71.8% of the surface. Let us remember that these provincial consortia were designed to complement the seven existing fire stations. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, in addition, that the orography of Greece is a few added difficulties, which is already complex by itself, which is to organize an emergency map. And because of that it is true that there are some municipalities that remain outside of the preferred areas of intervention of the comarcal parks, of which it is an acceptable isochronous, and in particular those located in high mountain areas, especially within Lugo and Ourense – one must not forget these municipalities, there also live Welsh and Welsh –. And so that's where it was preferably where several of the supramunicipal emergency groups were located; a model that I assumed, in respect of the old Grumir – municipal intervention groups – to overcome the difficulties that came to be warned – hence, I think it was a qualitative leap in its coverage – and it was designed, in addition, this GHG system – which has now been three years – the first three years from a point of view of complementarity of fire parks. These personnel, in addition to the GHGs, are already standardisedly trained specifically at the Galician Academy of Public Safety, which was not previously produced with Grumir, and, as you know, we are now negotiating renewal with the Fegamp of this GHG convention. We seek to consolidate everything that has believed in the model these three years and overcome things that must be improved, and we agree with both the Galician Union and the Fegamp itself. First, we're going to expand the range of functions that these GHGs have and extend the intervention tasks of forest, urban and industrial fires. They're going to continue to take stock, but in lands that were not previously contemplated, and therefore facilitate the work of clearing these GHGs, which is one of the complaints that is taking place. It will also enhance the intervention of GHGs in situations arising from natural risks, snowshoes, floods, storms and frosts – and for that too there is a need to equip them with material – as well as in other emergency situations that are being new, which demand the population, in particular – and we talk to the Fegamp – the specialization and training of these personnel to intervene at the time of the withdrawal of children from Vespa Titina. It is true that it is an emergency that has occurred many times; it is necessary to provide more emergency services in order to respond to population calls because of this matter, which are multiplying exponentially. As a result, the evolution of the old Grumir to the new GES has allowed us to move from a model that is limited and unstable to a well-defined, coherent and consolidated model as well as its stability, and that is one of the things – and it is perfectly understandable – that most concerned the municipalities and above all the staff that integrated these GES. And also, within human resources, as far as collaboration with the Galician Union is concerned, they do not occupy a smaller place, or much less, the thousands and thousands of volunteers who form civil protection groups in Galicia, the groups of civil protection volunteers, who do an irreplaceable task to complement all the resources I have just mentioned. I think the progress made in their cohesion, their formation and their work in recent years is remarkable. Since 2012, civil protection volunteers and groups have been provided with access to an electronic register of self-protection plans so that they can know the following protocols, when they have to act and the municipalities also know the resources they have. In 2014 we adopted the Decree of Uniformity. This seems to be a minor subject, but that they have the same image and therefore form part of the same body in fundamental all volunteers and volunteers throughout Galicia is something they were demanding, it's something the municipalities understood and I think it's something beneficial, and since the year 2014 that's going to happen. Also next year 2016 volunteer groups will meet with important news. There is a new state law of the national civil protection system that will enter into force in January and will allow for greater coordination with the rest of the state of civil protection personnel in Galicia, which are the most important and numerous in the country. A new regulatory decree of the Galician Civil Protection Commission will be adopted which will unify the activities of the collective bodies governing civil protection in Galicia, speed up decision-making and increase the representativeness of volunteers themselves and volunteers. And it's going to integrate new groups that up until now weren't in the system, like, for example, the psychological support group in disasters and emergencies, which, unfortunately, in recent times has increased its activity. They're going to have new operating equipment, which has been acquired this year in a very important way. Depending on the operational needs, the Galician Union acquired the material that was pointed out to it by civil protection officials and volunteers and volunteers who were most necessary, distributed it on the basis of absolutely objective criteria, without taking into account – as it could not be less – the political color in any municipality, and making a barrage than the group leaders themselves told him it was the most appropriate one. Four with five million euros in the 2015 budget: 64 vehicles picked up, 51 trailers with equipment, 41 vans, 33 salt sprawlers, 20 pressurized carp and 18 rescue boats were purchased, and an acquisition was made for volunteer groups as had not been done in many years. And with that it was done only to fulfill the duty of the Galician Council to a staff who gave up their time and their willingness to help without expecting anything in return. At the very least, what the Galician Union has to do – and by the way, the rest of the administrations should too – is properly equipped. [[Applause]] And I want, ladies and gentlemen, to make a brief brief exposition of what has been assumed – which is also important – in the investment being made and above all in the gap that is opening for the future endowment in this sense of cross-border emergency cooperation the so-called Ariem Project. It is a cross-border initiative, it has received congratulations from the European authorities, and, as a result of this recognition, it has been granted an extraordinary increase in successive contributions of EUR 2.5 million. In the end, it's about doing something as logical as collaboration, as if there were no administrative borders, when an emergency occurs. This, which seems to be common sense, for a long time it was not being produced, and at the end in the broad cross-border territories that Galicia has with Castela-León and with Portugal the emergencies are already coordinated, there are joint action protocols, an application has been set in motion that allows to request, assist and offer resources in a coordinated way, equips itself with equipment and specific material for emergency groups operating in the cross-border area and has been carried out simulations and given the appropriate training for all these personnel. In the new fund period we are now starting this pioneering project aims to increase its funding and also to increase its territorial scope to other areas that are not currently in the project. And everything seems to indicate, by the contacts that have been maintained, that this funding, that this enlargement, will be possible. We want to expand the catalogue of means and resources, we want to continue to develop risk maps and we want to continue to do these simulations – I insist – in a cross-border emergency cooperation that is being made virtually pioneering throughout Europe and here, on our border with Portugal, and with Castela-Leon. Therefore, any emergency service – not just in a cross-border area – that prays to try to work well, any planning, must, in order to do so, precisely that, appropriate planning instruments that adapt to the circumstances and emergency forecasts, which are increasingly complex, and therefore these instruments must be well done and above all require updating. So in recent years, we have proposed to renew the emergency action plans, some of which have taken more than a decade without updating, when emergencies are virtually evolving to risk situations every day. We have done this with the Emergency Plan on the Transport of Dangerous Goods and the Forest Fire Plan, which we have recently approved, and we will continue in 2016 with the approval of the new emergency plans, for example, with the Flood Emergency Plan or with the Emergency Plan on Radiological Risks. We also planned potential emergencies of chemical industries. In recent years, five foreign emergency plans have been updated that have not been renewed for years. And two new plans were approved for the Alcoa plants in Jupiter, and Cepsa, liquefied gas, in Maside. And besides, we continue to check the functionality of these plans through the continuous realization of simulations in seven of these installations, simulations that, by the way, have never been performed. And finally, even though I've already made some references, I would also like to stop at the fundamental role that the Galician Academy of Public Security plays in the training of all emergency personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, this academy, the Academy sits on the Road, has made a change of perspective or guidance in training especially from the second quarter of this year, taking into account the demands of the groups to whom it directs its services. In the end, it's all about listening to those who know the best, and therefore also giving them the training they demand the most. They know exactly what they need. Teaching is oriented towards Vocational Training, which is a future job for many young boys and girls who want to spend their lives professionally in emergency care and also in obtaining a certificate of professionalism and learning specific subjects. As far as Vocational Training is concerned, an agreement was signed for the Academy of the Road, together with the Councillory of Education, to share in a unique offer in Galicia, for the very first time, the titles of emergency technician and civil protection and sports technician in rescue and rescue. We're also guiding training to obtain a certificate of professionalism approved by the National Qualifications System, which is also very much demanded by people, especially those who have been dedicated to emergencies for a long time in a practically professional way but without any degree that would recognize it. In this second half, 18 courses are being held adapted to the professional qualification of fire and rescue extinction, which will enable them to obtain, as I said, an official certificate that improves the employability of the people who participate. Finally, we will continue to teach courses that are usually directed to emergency personnel in matters of their interest and that are useful for their daily work. Sixteen courses in this second half related to everything that has to do with emergency intervention, fires, traffic accidents, the situation of industrial emergency, everything that the professionals are demanding from the volunteers. So today, we have a coherent map, a map with greater coverage, with better communications, with services better equipped than in recent years and formed in a centre that coordinates all the needs in this area, and that seeks to update and enhance the operationality and knowledge of all these staff. So with this scenario, next year, in 2016, as I said at the beginning, it should be a turning point where all these modernization processes are closed, which probably had to be started many years ago, but which will take place over the next four or five years. We want to take a qualitative leap in the attention of emergencies in Galicia, and I think that requires joint decision-making. Not only does the Galician Union have emergency skills, it's important, but it's also important for the rest of the territorial administrations operating in our territory, and so do many of the important private entities that generate risk situations. So, to have an integrated system of professional emergency care, well-equipped, motivated and prepared to meet any situation, the Galician Union and I, through this appearance, tend our hands to all over the world. The more we dialogue and discuss constructively to have a good emergency service that day we need it, the more we'll be glad to have started this policy and not another one that only leads to discussion anywhere, and I think on a topic as sensitive as emergencies everything that is done constructively is going to be little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u80	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u81	Well, good morning, Mr. Vice President. I want to start with something where you started, because the People's Party always very much thanks the efforts of the workers and public workers, but never reflects that gratitude in policies that benefit these workers and workers, and now we come back, we start with the platoon, and then it's as good as we take them off their rights, that we take them off their wages, that we take them away from everything, because we already thank them in advance. So the problem is solved. And today, I said yesterday, comes to sell smoke. Yesterday in the budget debate we saw that the budget that is going to be headed for low emergencies actually falls. So all we're being sold is a larger building, with more posts for 112, where all emergencies will be centralized, but there's no commitment that these posts, for example, will be covered by staff. There will surely be many empty tables and chairs, because there is no engagement of staff. 112 must meet any type of emergency and its main function is to coordinate the actions of all agencies and services involved in emergency resolution to minimize their impact on the population. Taking advantage of the latest technological advances, Axega has recently acquired two drones for civilian emergency use. The advantage of these types of aircraft is important, since they increase the security of real information in a more appropriate, immediate time, and control over risk is facilitated. They also play an important role in the search for missing persons in open spaces, in the search for flood victims or laughter, in rescue air support, by land and other events of great concentration. But the integrated core centre of the Road, where basic emergency and civil protection services will be integrated, despite technological improvements, will not respond to these needs, since the deficiencies that you have today are not addressed in that plan, will not be solved. In particular, risk prevention. There is no talk about preventing actions to predict the risk of staffing and material. You told me some material. The story over these years and this year itself is that all emergency services complained about the lack of staffing, the lack of continuing training of emergency personnel and also of education and training at both the response level and the prevention level for population. In prevention, there is, of course, a lack of evidence of evacuation of public buildings such as trials, hospitals, schools... that have not been done in our country; help to combat energy poverty, since we have suffered several fires in housing because of the energy precariousness that leads to the use of systems to heat up unsafe, more dangerous housing, and also to increase the staff employed, or rather to put staff to work in the months of IRDI under, not to hire only for the months of high IRDI. If we talk about working conditions, complaints about the lack of human material was repeated. By June the unions had already denounced the lack of air resources, issues that you had not dealt with for the extinction of forest fires. Even though the drones are fine, the drones won't replace the airborne means of extinction. The trade unions also denounced the lack of PPE for personnel, individual protective equipment; in particular, they complained that they were not given masks with filters suitable for carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and ammonia, which is emitted in the combustion of forest fires. They also denounced the unions to the worst situation of the technical means they have, especially of the motorcycles, which in many cases exceed 20 years of use and do not count on the high-pressure mechanism. Labour precariousness and the situation of labour neo-slavery is the one that the Seaga workers are suffering, that you have not referred to, and that you continue to remain in the most precarious conditions of the entire Greek administration, in clear discrimination. Labour insecurity and lack of means endanger the lives of brigadiers for excessive days, obsolete machinery, heat strikes and lack of human resources, but also endanger the lives of the rest of the population. And speaking of lack of means, related to emergencies, we can also talk about the lack of 061 ambulance fleet in Galicia, composed of twelve medicalized ambulances, 101 basic life support ambulances and two non-assisted ambulances. That is, for the entire territory of Galicia in emergencies we have twelve emergency ambulances for people who are seriously injured and who require immediate medical care; 101 ambulances for hospital transfer, and who only count on the defribilator but don't carry medical personnel; and two ambulances for non-emergency transfer of patients. And it seems that the Salnés will definitely be without the advanced life support ambulance they've been claiming. 11,000 services were held in Salnés in 2014, to which the 2,000 civilian protection will be added, and yet that ambulance will be denied. Speaking of job insecurity, we can also talk about the precariousness of 061, a privatized service, managed by small businesses and drag a stream of legal problems, and also that transfer to the Road, which will cause the forced transfer of staff from Compostela without any kind of compensation or explanation, when precisely the technological advances in communication today allow us not to have the same thirst. In addition to ambulances, businessmen in the sector report that the Union is planning a step in order to favour the European Union against the Greek companies that are carrying out this service. Thus, for example, in Biscay, the ELA trade union denounced Ambiberica for incuring breach of contract, for lack of the adjudication contract, for lack of material, for not facilitating complaint sheets or having no GPS. With regard to continuing training, specialization, the interest of the Union is reflected in the forest fire prevention and extinction services, in the denial of the professional firefighter category. A lot of professionalization, but you don't want to recognize the category and lack of vocational training due to the fragmentation of the service. It is essential to professionalize and coordinate emergencies and human and technical resources that guarantee quality care as soon as possible. They must be supported by prevention services that reduce to the extent possible emergency situations. There's no better attention to emergencies than prevention is to be avoided, and that's where it should be meant, and that's where the Union absolutely abandons prevention. As far as population education is concerned, it is necessary to create a network that develops these powers to minimize the consequences of emergencies. In rural areas, far away from the urban nuclei – as you said, mountain areas, where they won't have these services immediately – it would be important to train both the population and the local administration so that they can take the first steps in case of emergencies, such as forest fires, major disasters or floods. And the evacuations of public access centers, basically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u82	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u83	... – already President – hospitals, municipalities, football stadiums, discotheques, no emergency plans and no evacuation simulations in these cases. The lack of integrated emergency management is a problem, it's a fragmented, privatised and precarious service, and therefore – if I'm done with time – I think that what you have to report is the role of personality and organizational dependence that you will have from now on, the organization of the forest fire prevention and fighting services and the recognition of the category of firefighter and the rights of Seaga workers; the services of prevention and forest fires, the life support ambulances, their staffing and the care they will provide, the continuing training plans for staff, the plans for citizenship and evacuation simulations and the air media that will be available for emergencies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the Galician Union. Law 5/2007 states that emergencies are an essential public service, and Mr. Vice-President of the Galician Union has just substanceized an appearance on an essential public service telling us of a new building in Silleda – which, indeed, workers will be forcibly transferred – of two drones, a large-scale tank truck and a uniformity decree of the civil protection volunteers. Very well, very essential of all his appearance. Look, Mr. Vice-President, we've talked a lot about emergencies, and you've come here today to talk about emergencies, and we think you're going to talk about the problems in the service and emergency delivery in Galicia, but I see that wasn't your intention. In 2007 that government so terriblely evil that we had in this country approved a horrible, evil law, Law 5/2007, of emergencies, quite improved – as all and when applied later in practice – that started from a finding: that in Galicia we had an emergency service absolutely triggered. And why was the service supposed to be fired? Because we had one, the first comarcal park that was born in 1999, that of Silleda, public, managed directly by the Consortium, by the Administration; 20 or 17, at that time, about, comarcal parks managed indirectly, i.e. privatized in its management; the 7 fire parks of public and personnel cities, with public officials, and much of the territory without any kind of proximity provision to meet emergencies. So the main objective of Law 5/2007 was to homogenize both territorially and from the point of view of the conditions of service, the working conditions of workers, the conditions of access, the conditions of training, as well as the conditions of quality of service that citizens receive, regardless of where Galician territory lives. Well, eight years have passed since the passing of that law, not only have we homogenized nothing, but we have brought more chaos into our country's emergency device. Now we have, we still have, a public comarcal park; 22 for the year – if at last – because Carballino's one was going to work in 2014, said Mr. Vice-President, that I always believe to Mr. Vice-President, would work in 2014; 23 privatized parks; the 7 parks of the public cities; and now we have the father-in-law that are called supra-municipal emergency groups. And yet the vice president says they intend with this device to have acceptable isochrons. I define what you mean "acceptable", Mr. Vice President, because we don't know what is an acceptable isochron. Thus, in some documents on emergency protection, it says that the acceptable one would be that in less than 20 minutes since the occurrence of a disaster they are acting in that sinister emergency services. And, of course, that in Galicia there are many parts of our territory that are not being fulfilled. Second, Mr. Vice-President. You haven't told us why you're still failing to comply with the third additional provision of the law. Because despite the fact that the law established that there was a period of one year for the drafting of a firefighting and volunteering regulation in which all these issues were homogenized, we followed so many years later without even starting that process. The workers have already presented a project to you, this Parliament approved a two-month ago initiative, on the initiative – worth redundancy – of this group, urging them to make this regulation, negotiating with consortia, of course, with the workers and all those affected. Look, Vice-President, here we have an example that could be followed to coordinate and homogenize at least this service until you seriously take a thorough reform, which is the model of local police who are coordinated through a law, although of quite unequal compliance, but which, in any case, could also be followed in this field as long as you don't develop that fireman status that establishes a system that lasts in time, which is useful for both the workers and the administration, and for citizenship. You also told us about a subject that you like very much, which is the Tetra theme, you told us about Tetra and you literally said it was the worst thing in technology. He also said that you always listen to those who know. I'm looking for you, too. So, to me, what the workers tell me is that they had a system up to the English accident that allowed them the minute, not the minute, not the second, the live, through a computer, something as modern as a computer, to know all the incidences of emergencies of all the calls that were received in 112 and all the movements that were made, which was what they called the Remote EGA Web. Of course, it turns out that the Remote EGA Web bothered you with that appearance you had here after the Angelis accident to tell us that Galician Board performance was the most. Why? Because through what was filtered out from the Remote on that day it was possible to see that what you were telling us was a lie, and that there was actually a total and absolute disunity, and that it was actually thanks to the workers – many of them who were not on duty and came to work the same or were on vacations – that this was not greater. And what did he do to Galician Union? Instead of improving the device, the Remote has been loaded. And now, in fact, they've put in a system that tells them who know, who are the workers, who are there every day, who with little luck works four days a month. Last technology, but only four days a month, the other days technology goes on vacation. And look, Vice President, that's the situation today. And what distortions does this produce? For example, it happened a couple of weeks ago, that an accident took place in Prado, next to Silleda, two kilometers from where Silleda Park is, and 112 alerts the GES of Lalin, which is further than the Silleda Park, and which above in a traffic accident has no material for excarculation. What's going on? That there's a fire in Poio, the Pontevedra municipal fire station is stuck, that is, it's in Poio, literally, and it burns the house because the one who alerts 112 is at the comarcal park that's in Ribadumia. That's the emergency system we have in this country. What else is the matter, Mr Vice-President, and why do I say that GHGs are useless and that this system is useless? At best in any commercial park there are three people on shift duty, at best in the GHG, considering that they're sweet to work 365 days a year and twenty-four hours, at least five workers a shift, and there's at most two per shift. That's not an emergency service. The European Union states that for something to be called emergency service it has to have five members per turn and day, and we have what we have, Mr Vice-President, is that. And you're here to tell us about the drones and the nadriss truck. Look, Mr Vice-President, from the point of view also of the benefits that citizens receive, it is not the same as having a traffic accident in the Conchas, by setting an example in Bande Town Hall, which I don't know about in AG-53 at any point. Because in the shells, with a little luck, at the end of half an hour, the GES of the mills arrives, which, in fact, will come to unravel in the mountain, because here are all the landmen. The workers must be worth everything and do everything, and they won't have at best any element of excarceration. But for more normal things. Look, in the only public park in this country, if I live in Vila de Cruces and if I stay at the door of the locked house and have to call the Silleda firehouse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u87	...to open the door for me, they're going to charge me 50 euros. But if I live in Monterrey, privatized, and call the Verín firefighters for the same reason, they're going to charge me 250 euros. That's the situation, Mr. Vice President, and you're here to talk about Tetra and the nodrix truck. You see, Mr Vice-President, when this government is serious about addressing the problem of the emergency map we have in this country and the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u89	...not only from the point of view of the working conditions of the workers who perform their service, who are quite dramatic, but as this implies the service that citizens receive depending on where they live or where they are unfortunately suffering from an emergency. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u91	Good trade, Vice President. The truth, Mr. Rueda, I don't know what to say in this audience, because it looks like you have a wide range of responsibilities; look at that you rule nothing more and nothing less than the justice of this country; govern immigration; govern the policy of equality; govern the policy of interior; govern the policy of cooperation; govern the policy of sports; govern a lot of issues, and indeed, Counsellor, is that you have come on a number of occasions to explain to us the emergency system of this country and, that I know, almost nothing to talk about the other matters. And the question I ask myself is why you are committed to promoting a policy that knows not by the opposition groups, but by the citizenship and by the direct agents themselves, who are the workers and the few workers there, who are being permanently questioned. I mean, far from being something you can pretend to be, it's exactly the opposite. You started your intervention by saying that this was a fundamental allowance for citizenship, said that we would agree with this. That's right, we agree. I, as I've told you in other audiences, once again tell you that I am something as important as the emergencies of a country as just for this have to be in the public hands. I'll tell you again that just because we're in the public hands, we're the only autonomous community in the state, the only one with this sensitive, vital and fundamental, privatized matter, Mr. Rueda. And you even know that firefighters and professionals are manifesting throughout the state because they fear that the Wheel model can spread across the rest of the state. So here's a fundamental ejaculation. You who always say that the problem seems to be that there are no other kind of examples in the whole state, well, here's the world in reverse. It's the only model we've privatized making, we suppose, a business for some of the three companies that manage this sensitive matter, and I'll tell you again, I repeat again as you, that this matter is like the tax inspection, it has to be public, Mr. Rueda. So we're going to disagree absolutely with what you're doing here, besides that to me, and I'm telling you again with absolute respect, it's embarrassing me, Mr. Rueda. Again with Tetra, again tells us that the emergency building, Mr. Rueda, announced it, advertised it, even opened it – I told it in the budget appearance – before the municipalities. Mr. Rueda, please, it gives you a little bit of... They've been ruling for seven years. Sure, they're gonna put it on now. Yeah, they're gonna put it on now because if they're done with the warrant! They won't rule this country again, fortunately. So, of course, they're going to put it forward. Yes, Mr. Dorado, they won't rule this country again. Yes, Mr. Dorado, however nervous they are and, no doubt, for that, indeed, Mr. Rueda will inaugurate one more building. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the problem is that emergencies are not a real estate issue, Mr. Rueda; emergencies are a fundamental right for citizens and citizens of this country. And that problem is that there are many people in this country who are de facto deprived of this fundamental right, no doubt, Mr. Rueda. And I'm going to try not to talk about isochrons, because we're also bored with Commission 1st emergency voices, Mr. Rueda, who talks about isochrons. What are you talking about? Frankly, let us give you examples of how your isochronous system failed and even how by absolute criteria of business profitability there were grave issues that affected people, Mr Rueda. Well, therefore, the main question: we are fighting this country's emergency model. We're fighting a model that has been put in evidence. I believe that all over the world through the wretched left of Angrois. By the way, an English sinister who has already arrived in Europe and is likely to bring out the colors in Europe; a sinister who has highlighted the disaster of the Axega, a privatized Axega; and a sinister who has highlighted the disaster of the chaos that is taking place in all emergency services. Mr. Rueda, on that picture we see how fireman's staff goes like this, goes each with different colors, they're not evenly uniformed. And let's not go this way because you know that what we say is real. But the most serious thing, Mr. Rueda – and here we do know what the reason is – is that you are committed to not complying with the Emergency Act. We don't communicate with the Emergency Law because it has a fundamental water, which allows indirect management. The fact that this rule didn't put in the frontispicio of itself what has to be a direct service allowed what you did, of course. But, as I said, Mr Rueda, what that rule says is that we have to have a statute, or regulation – called it as you wish – of firefighting personnel. You are lukewarm, you refuse to take this initiative forward, but do you know why you refuse? They refuse because they know that if there is a statute or a regulation in which we discipline what matters are, what training is, what are the requirements for being firefighters in our country, indeed, they will not be able to be private. But the second question, Mr. Rueda: is that you know perfectly how chaos is or even the irresponsibility that can arise if a private fireman has to collide in people's fundamental rights, for example, into a housing. What can happen, Mr. Rueda? They're private firemen, they're not covered with authority. They're asking you, Mr. Rueda, to review by authority the professional who is providing these services. In the debate of the Public Employment Act we tabled an amendment just to ensure that these personnel were specifically defined as having authority. We were told not – as usual – because it was already in another standard. Mr. Rueda, what's very clear is that they won't do this while you rule because they couldn't actually be in the hands of private companies. The most serious thing, Mr. Rueda, is that we have a chaotic system of workers who are in sickening conditions, of workers who are risking their lives. And it's a model, in addition to what you're putting on here by the GES, and even the People's Party has recognized that the GES staff is about cleaning up the fairs and cleaning up the city hall parties. Man, Mr. Rueda, please! Even the voices of the People's Party have recognized this! I will not tell you any more of the initiatives we have taken on this issue, Mr. Rueda, because you know how I – and I will say it again – are being employed for all kinds of crying orchestral men in our country who have nothing to do with the main functions, Mr. Rueda, and there is no need to condemn the mayors or the mayors, who will do what they can. The problem is that you are the one who handles this matter, and the problem is that you are the one who handles the said chaos in this matter. Indeed, as Mrs. Paz, Mr. Rueda, spoke, was that they were reprisaled at least two minutes ago, when one delegation from that country – speaking from El País newspaper –... when the remote control of the calls was filtered, and the chaos that occurred at 112, Mr. Rueda. And since then, punished, there's no remote control for professionals, so they can't have the information that's absolutely sensitive to you. If you want it to work in a coordinated manner, as God commands, the Emergency Service repudiates the remote control of professionals working with it. Mr. Rueda, you spoke and assumed – and I took the trouble to look at them – of all the emergency plans that you – and of course, I will not deny it – took forward, from the deposits of Alcoa muds, to the polygon of Agrela, Pleasures, Promontory Punta... I will put an example to you: Promontory tip, gas plant – which they care so much about. And in addition, I'll give you a date: we'll talk to you in the next plenary, which concerns Mr. Tellado so much. Do you know how many workers are on Reganosa's gas plant, Mr. Tellado? No, no, it's very interesting to those thousands of workers there would be. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, 20 in administration, 32 for operations. But let's get to the point. Mr. Wheela, look, in the Emergency Plan that you did, they actually predict the risks as lethal – literally what is on the website of your responsibility – not just one of several of the risks that they assessed. Do you know what your way out for this? An emergency kit for the population, a mask and these things, that I don't know anything about this, but the professionals tell me that it's little less than a joke. Therefore, the plans may have them, I don't doubt it –in every and every one of them you say – now well, the means we have for these plans are exactly none. And more questions, Mr. Rueda. I would like you to come here and make it clear to us that it has happened – I say again – with that declaration of nullity which is a real scandal of the call to tender from the Coruña Consortium, because, indeed, that resolution speaks for itself, as this vocabulary said in December last year anticipating me to it. In that plea of conditions there was a lack of the number of the company's shoe to which he was to be judged, which says, by the way, the court's resolution, which says that only the company providing the service could compete for this contest, actually, because only it could have access to the limited margin of time that they gave him to be able to provide the ingenious documentation. But not only that, but he was saying something tremendous, and he was saying that with the companies that were going to be presented to this competition, a fundamental element, that I respect: company, freedom of company and market society. Perfect!, but tell us the resolution that the fundamental principle of the entrepreneur, which is going to risk and adventure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u93	...doesn't exist in the same, Mr. Rueda. I mean, John the people put all the resources for companies to take the benefits, but we do absolutely everything. We would also like that, after this radical nullity, to explain to us whether you will continue to be engaged in privatization of services to the knowledge that indirect provision, i.e. privatization, is much more expensive, much more foolish, much more risky...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u95	...and much more ineffective. And also tell us, Mr. Rueda, really, once and for all, if you will stop advertising that so-called building that will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u97	...the Emergency Academy and if you're going to care about the real thing, that's the professionals who perform the services every day. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President has an important quality: when the opposition summons him to different appearances for quite serious matters, he always takes off his sleeve – as he obviously sees it from his group – an appearance almost – I don't know how to define it – so for... And, of course, there are others – even today at the Speaker's Board – who have been asked – we have asked for it in the past Meeting of Spokespersons – that are relevant even to the political decency of the country. Rousseau was trying to explain his concept of equality by means of a simile that seems to me very close. He said equality is the one where a citizen is not so rich that he can buy another or so poor that he is obliged to sell himself to another person who can buy it. And, of course, we have asked for the Government's appearance and very especially for the vice president to come to tell us how it is possible that in a province of our country, which occupies the last rankings on any variable that is sized – ageing of population, income, desertification, etc. – we have come to this time when there is someone who feels so powerful that one can buy a human being, and someone who even considers himself so poor thinks that to access a job there is no more remedy than to sell. And Mr. President doesn't show up for that. [[Applause]] And here nobody's presuming anything, but it seems relevant. Obviously, the vice-president is also awaiting to come here to explain to us how such a Alfonso Rueda, secretary-general of the People's Party, urges in the morning to such Alfonso Rueda, vice-president of the board of Galicia, so that in the afternoon he begins the pursuit of an agricultural organization on his day for a series of things – which must be seen – that the courts have proved to be false, and yet he has not come to explain the vice-president. I'm not asking any secretary general of any political party. Of course, because, if that happens in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we can almost understand it, but in a democratic country it doesn't seem quite proper. By the way, also from the competence of the vice-secretary, it would be good if you had told the Tax Agency that you had sent the reports of the judge of the famous Zeta courses and of the dangerous friends that you always have Mr. President of the Board so you can continue with the instruction, because you are paralyzed because you don't send them, Mr. Rueda, and it's also your competence. Finally, we can talk, for example, about the problem – which is also of your competence – with which the Greek Town Councils will find themselves on 31 December because of the changes that have taken place on behalf of Mr Montoro and those of you, or in any case. And you're here to talk about the integrated emergency management, and it's all right... yes, Mr. Rueda, we don't feel bad, man, but what do you want me to tell you? It is that you use Parliament as a second dish because, look, we're going to see – that I tell you – this one is the president of the Union – December 2014 – where he says –well, this is published by Amtega, which must be an organism of Castilla la Vieja, because it says – "The digital network of emergencies will be set on in January 2015 to equip Galicia with Spain's most modern system and with the most cutting-edge technology". Here would be an expression that many boys say about a rent that I will not repeat so as not to put the president in a hurry. Of course, but it's just that on the way, too, in March, on the eve of municipal elections, and as it was supposed to give an emergency boost to the Road candidate, there they landed Mr. Rueda, Mr. President of the Board, Mrs. Counsellor of the Middle Rural and the Sea... well, all of them; and there they already said they opened that but they didn't know when it was going to work. Of course, here we use the House as a second plate; the first was already for the municipal electoral process; now it's for the general electoral process. Anyway... Mr. Wheela, do you know what perfectly defines the concept that you have of emergency – and the House, I don't know, surely we don't remember, because memory is fragile? Do you know what was the first decision the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo – not in this mandate, in the first –?, the first one he made? Cancel the maritime rescue base, which had the helicopter already auctioned the Galician Union for emergencies and maritime rescue on the Death Coast. I'll set that as an example, that it perfectly defines what it's going to be. And by the way, Mr. Rueda, here in this country are the greatest disasters and the worst emergency situations have occurred on the coast and from the sea. I haven't heard anything from him yet. You have a chance on the second – and besides you have no time limit, as we have others – and you could do it, you could explain a little where all this comes in. By the way, I don't know if you know that tonight a boat, a trailer from a private company, the Vigo River, had to rescue a merchant. I don't know, our services, which in addition to now have already set the quotas they have to charge for the ransom, I'd like to know why they didn't act on a ship that was in trouble, and whether a private company. There were a lot of other issues that you could come up with. You could come by to tell us, in the case of emergencies, why we've privatized and why we've been rude, when the law clearly says that something that 112 has to do is coordinate rescue helicopters. We have cursed them to a private company, which, by the way, it would be good for Inaer to come and tell us what's going on because they know a lot more about it. Among other things, because, for example, you remember an accident in the Vigo River where two ships hit and it turns out the rescue produces a boat passing by, when the base of Inaer's helicopters is there, at Peinador's Airport, or at Oia's crash. And you know why it is? Because you allow this company cheerfully, even though it puts it in the contract, that, instead of having presence guards there, they have them located, and well, how does it seem that even the accidents that a sailor is going to have are expected to have, because what do you want me to tell them? There are several questions I would like you to answer, Mr. Rueda. You sent a draft agreement to Fegamp to coordinate emergencies, especially GHGs, and I'd like you to tell me, for example, because it's important: according to that agreement, you plan that on December 31st, the municipalities that have a group of supra-municipal emergencies from December 31st will have to send the workers to unemployment, because in the agreement it is expected that the new agreement will enter into operation there in May-June. What's wrong? We stayed six months, despite all the evidence that they said here, without any kind of "protection" -- between you and me--? You establish in that agreement that these workers, in order to rejoin themselves, have to pass a test-opposition, I demand a number of requirements. We agree. Now, the municipal brigades that are theoretically contracted to extinguish the fire, to do work on forest fires, with what criteria? If those who act in the same territory, in the same circumstances, it turns out that some evidence – which seems reasonable to me, eh! – and the others turn out that they go there and pass by. The truth is, when the president of the board tells us at the end of last year that they aspire to integrate up to 12,000 people from all emergency services in Galicia, this is when, Mr. Rueda? Right now, how many do we have and when are those 12,000 expected to be? You spoke – I don't have time, I'm finished – for example, of emergency cooperation with northern Portugal. Man, it wouldn't be too much. I remind you here that patient, the citizen who had an accident practicing paragliding, was a few minutes from a hospital in Portugal and had to travel five miles and a whole hatred to end up later at the reference hospital in his province. Or I can tell you that the forest firefighters in Portugal are going to put out fires, for example in Extremadura, and we're stuck here to see if Geres' fire doesn't enter the Jurés. Of course, I don't know, these things, perhaps, with this so good relationship that we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u101	...then maybe we shouldn't wait until we have because I don't know what European programme to make it work, because it's pure common sense. I have more questions left and we'll talk about them, in any case, in the second intervention, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Vice-President. First of all, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to congratulate, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, the German Government, on the person of the vice president, on the progress that has been made in emergency matters, even though we seem to be attending a different audience here; some have seen things and others seem to hear quite a lot more things that the vice president has come to tell us. Because when a government takes this matter seriously it is noted, and it is noted, ladies and gentlemen, the concern for providing a fundamental service to citizenship, for providing a quality service on which matters as important as people's life or heritage depend. And in that task, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's commitment is unquestionable, as we have just checked in the appearance of the vice president, but also the professional commitment of the people working in this field, a commendable work of emergency and volunteer professionals, who do not hesitate to risk their lives to save others, performing their work with enormous generosity and professional quality. Mr Vice-President, you have just stated here that the commitment of the Government of the People's Party goes beyond the economics, in addition to the 15 million euros in this exercise for the provision of emergency services, the commitment to quality, and thus evidenced by the European quality certification for emergency centres that gives the European Emergency Numbers Association, which Mrs Paz was also very concerned about quality. I think, Mrs. Paz, you'd better congratulate the Government of Galicia on achieving that quality certification, wouldn't you? You're just worried that the third additional provision is being met; to worry about it now I might have worried you before, because since 2007 you've still had two and a half years to fulfill it, and you gave yourself a year. [[Applause]] And it's not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia is the second 112 that gets this qualification across Europe, Mrs Díaz, it's not a coincidence. We already know that you believe in coincidences, because some of them happen to be number two by chance, but in this case they don't, emergencies don't exist. And they don't exist, Mrs. Díaz, and you think you're a little confused, don't you, because what's really an emergency? Well, look, an emergency is an unwanted, unexpected situation, which requires rapid action, evacuation of people. So to give you an example, yes, I'm going to set an example for you, for example, for primarys. The primarys have a vote to choose the best, but because the best aren't the ones that come out, there's an emergency, we have to evacuate and others go, right? So that's an emergency. [[Applause]] I have also missed, Mrs. Díaz – that you are often very strict in your interventions – some economic report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u105	And you can go eat a little bit there in the bucket... we know you know more than the magistrates. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u106	Quiet, please. Quiet, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u107	I have missed here today an economic report, serious and rigorous, to which Mrs. Díaz often attends. Mrs. Díaz, I'm sorry that you haven't talked here today about any report from Mr. Manolo Lago, which inspires you so much – I don't know if it's not inspired by anything now – and I think it would be good if you might have had a report on all these issues that you've come here to talk about whether municipal services or public services are in public hands. That's what we're going to talk about, because one thing is what you say here and another thing is what they do where they rule, and then I'll talk about what they do where they rule. Because look, you gave – there's also for you, Mrs. Pontón, don't worry, don't worry – a Copernican money order, because you saw, in 2007 they passed the Emergency Act, they passed the Emergency Act the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. And we must remember what they were saying at that time... – Mrs. Acuña is also concerned about what we can say, too – but Mr. González Marinas said – so I feel a deep respect, because she was my teacher and I feel a deep respect for what she was saying –... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u109	...as BNG's rapporteur for the Emergency Law: the system, alas, the question, the question, surprises now that they want... I'm talking about emergencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u110	Wait, Mrs. Prado. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u111	...of emergency, as Mrs. Soneira said of emergency. Well, we're going to talk about emergencies, we're going to talk about emergencies. In emergency Mr. González Marinas said, in that intervention he had defended the Emergency Act, that law that had 59 articles, the proposal of the ruling group of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. Do you know how many amendments you've had? 59 amends, for 59 articles it's not wrong, and now says Mrs. Peace that it's still better. Well, it's good that you have laws in the process of constantly improving. For Mr. González Marines said that among all the functions that had emergencies in the municipalities, municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants and others, it had to be pointed out that it was an elementary issue of provincial function, provincial function, provincial deputies. I also said Mrs. Sestayo – which is a pity that she is not here today, and it is a pity that Mrs. Soneira did not defend as well as Mrs. Sestayo defended the issue of emergencies – because she spoke about the issue of funding and appealed to Article 48 and said that the financial resources of this integrated system correspond to the councils of more than 20,000 inhabitants, to the provincial parliamentary bodies both for their own activities and to meet the needs of the councils of less than 20,000 inhabitants. I suppose you've made it clear. That's what Mrs. Sestayo said... Home!, I don't know if the Members who were in the Chamber had made it clear, I suppose the Government would have made it clear, but here it seems that no one had made it clear and you now, eight years after passing the law, seem to have not made it clear either. [[Murmurs.]] And look, where they said I'm saying now they're saying Diego. And what happened for them to renounce that law now, gentlemen? What happened, what happened? Because of course, look, that law, 59 articles and 59 amendments, which is still better, was also answered by emergency professionals. With this government, Galicia to the emergency queue. That's not what they're saying right now, this was in 2007, with your government, with your government. And look, and now it's okay. Mrs Díaz said that the Emergency Act, specifically article 43, allows direct and indirect management. The indirect seems to you not to like it, but where they rule and where they rule, at the time when they approved these provincial consortia, in Lugo and in Coruña, they approved indirect management; he was president of the Lugo Deputy Mr. Besteiro – today disqualified by votes, but then he was his factual leader in fact and law, now I don't know whether it's indeed, right or nothing – but also in the Crown Deputy – I'm not talking about Vigo, Mr. Losada – and in the Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u112	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u113	...from Coruña was Mr. Moreda. And Mr. Moreda also approved this kind of management. And what did the current President of the Crown Parliament say when he came to this House to talk about budgets? Well, he said the service delivery system had to be reformulated. He said exactly: it's a bad affair, with part of my party's responsibility; the current president of the Crown Deputy. We can contemplate a different model, which is what we believe, we have to talk and negotiate. We bet on a direct management system and cost reasonable and economically sustainable. Well, Mrs. Soneira, perhaps this will answer the questions you have just asked you, perhaps if you had spoken to the President of the Crown Deputy, who I suppose will have a good relationship with him, because he will likewise answer the questions you have just posed here. It would be very interesting if, instead of making them here, they would probably have made them to their leaders where they have the responsibility to rule. Because we will now see what the proposals of the new municipal and provincial governments are. Because Mrs. Díaz said, they have to be in public hands. Well, look, Mrs. Díaz, your government paradigm is in Compostela Open, for example, in Santiago. They said they were going to municipalize the services, even yesterday the Socialist Party told him to municipalize the emergency they've had with the school dining rooms. Do you know what Mr. Martiño Noriega said? Because I suppose in that sketch that Mr. Martiño Noriega was going to do to us, or not, maybe he's not. But, well, Mr. Martiño Noriega said it can't be done. Why? What law prevents him? Because here in the emergencies you say there's a law that doesn't allow it, but what law prevents school lunchers from being in public hands, Mrs. Díaz? Or the children's schools, which you don't even municipalize, or the water service, that you promised to municipalize? Look, you're lying so much to people that whatever you say is not credible, Mrs. Díaz, it's not credible. Because they already have responsibility. They've been ruling for five months, yes, they've been ruling for five months in Compostela... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u114	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u115	...and they've been in provincial office for five months. What are they doing? Nothing they said, nothing they said. [[Applause]] You, Your Honor, rule by the hand of private companies. So they want public officials to arrive at the Mayor of Compostela and hire the Secretary of the Council of Outes to report to him for EUR 17,990, excluding the officials of the Town Hall of Santiago, who has no less than one secretary and a vice secretary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u117	...two national skills. That's their policy, not what they come to tell here. You gentlemen, the truth is, they're not absolutely credible. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u118	Quiet, please. Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u119	Emergencies, emergencies they had in the county of Ferrol with the water. Not even a kit gave, Mrs. Díaz. Ten days consuming water not suitable for consumption and they were unable to manage an emergency like that of Ferrol's water.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u120	Quiet, please. It's over, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u121	That's your story in five months of government, and now that you're in opposition here, they're saying the Government of the Union does what you're not able to do where they rule. So credibility for you, zero. [[Murmurs.]] And say what they say here, it's absolutely nothing credible, because everything they say is absolutely false, absolutely false. His credibility's on the floor. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Martínez, for answering in the order of speeches, I generally regret the little importance they give to emergencies – some have even said it almost directly. This is perhaps less than any one for you, Mrs. Martínez, because I think that, well, I don't agree with some of the things you said, but I think you really posed this subject. I'm sorry anyway to say that talking good about emergency professionals is playing ball. Either you don't know your job or you don't care, because I think what we all have to do is recognize this job. Then you might think if we're looking at him well, acknowledging him well, but man! to say that speaking well of them is just ballatilleo I don't think it's taking his job seriously. Just like it's not taking emergency care seriously when you tell me there's a little budget. Here I have to say that none of the opposition groups in the budget amendment phase, at least as far as I can tell, made a single amendment to add, except the BNG, to a very small part of the cortex island, 80,000 euros – we're talking about millions of euros – none made a single add... unless the Sobón polygon – they're right – in total, around 150,000 euros in a budget of more than twenty-one million euros, and no opposition group made any amendment to add more resources, more money to emergencies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Rather, on the contrary, what he did was to say that they were drawn to meet other purposes, surely also very laudable, but they did not say that they had added a single money to the attention to emergencies. With which you now come to say that there are few resources, few budgets for emergencies, it's quite contradictory to what you end up doing in the budget and quite indicative that you don't take this subject very seriously. Tell me the road centre won't be able to respond to emergencies. You don't tell me exactly why. They decided that this center isn't why... by the way, it's on the Road, not in Silleda, Mrs. Peace, that also says very seriously... No, no, but with other things you've said, I suppose in this matter of emergencies what we're doing, because they don't take it very seriously and now I'll try to explain why. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell me that emergency fragmentation, Mrs. Martínez, is a problem. I agree. That's why we have to focus more and more on the need to coordinate them, and that's what I wanted to try to move in my presence. Mrs. Peace, I think you've treated me less – I'm sorry to tell you, with all due respect – to my appearance. Let me tell you that at the end I came here to talk about two drones, some uniforms, which, by the way, the uniforms look like a joke to you, Mrs. Díaz is one of the subjects that says I have subjected to the most evidence of the disorder that occurred in English; agree; hear!, the uniforms are important or are not important, because Mrs. Díaz is telling all the time that the theme of having different uniforms was one of the reason for the chaos that, according to her, took place in English, and you tell me that the theme of the uniforms is an anecdotal that I come here to dismiss I don't know who. It doesn't matter what I told you about the resources invested in creating new fire parks, the staffing system, I think it's unprecedented that was done in civil protection material, which was well deserved. Anyway, you stayed in two drones and a series of uniforms. It's called "gendre" -- so between you and the GES. You'll know why. It is noted that he talks little to the GHG professionals and mayors, all of whom were asked to renew themselves as soon as possible. I'll try to talk about it too, about the agreement with the GES, which you shouldn't think, like you probably do, because you know the need for them and the work they do. For you, he is a son, for mayors of different political colors – including his – he is a necessity. Tell me that, well, the Tetra network – you, well, it shoots directly against it – is a disaster, says it's not worth anything, says the fire department professionals tell her it's broken up one day and another, too. But if it's not installed in fire stations yet, Mrs. Paz! The Tetra network is not yet installed in the fire stations and tells me it's broken one day and the other as well. That's the rigor and knowledge that you have of some emergency stuff. [[Applause]] Tell me, too, about the disappointment and what I'm going to tell you here about how the emergencies are handled. And give me examples, the example of Poio. Don't you think the problem with the fire that happened just a few days ago, actually, next to the fire park in Pontevedra, is that the fire park in Pontevedra refuses to go out even if it has a fire 800 meters away? Do you think that's the question of Galicia's board, and it's not the problem of the mayor of Pontevedra, nor is it the problem of the mayor of Poio, who must be on cross-arms – I hope not – waiting for a fire, not to see if a house burns or not a house burns, but to try to blame the Board of Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Do you think this is serious, Mrs. Paz? Is that what you're talking about? Do you think this is a serious way of putting together emergency coordination? [[Murmurs.]] Now it turns out that the only problem is not a fire department that by order of the mayor refuses to leave, it's the Unity of Galicia, which has to take away from the resources it has when a county refuses to lend its own, to deal with that emergency as soon as possible. And by the way, talking about the Emergency Law, that you're going through a lot of stitches, actually, is a Bipartite law. Do you know what he said about emergency services, prevention and care? First, the first ones are the Town Councils. If they have more than 20,000 inhabitants, inexcusable, and if not – and I read textually – the Members, "who are obliged to ensure the provision of the civil protection and emergency management service, including fire and rescue services in those municipalities which do not contain their own services if they are not obliged or have obtained their exemption". I suppose you would speak to Mr. Cesareo Mosquera, since, as a concler of Pontevedra, he says that firefighters do not go out to a fire 800 metres away, at least as Deputy Vice President, who exercises the obligations of a law that you yourself have made. If not, it's all to blame the Galician board, it's all to invalidate emergency management and everything is to prevent us from acting – and I told you at the end of my first intervention – in a rational way and without wanting to blame each other, because we finally fall into these contradictions like the one I just made quite clear to you. Give me examples of... I was told of the expensive ones that are some services and others. Hey, look, first of all, we're trying -- I suppose you'll know, too, even if you touch a little bit of an emergency -- is that people don't call firemen to open doors. But if you had to open doors, there's no such difference that you say in a service and others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm just telling you, I can teach you the next day when we compare the service fees of the Verín Park, because that's what you expressly named, and the Silleda Park, and at best, and so put that example, there's a difference of 50 euros between the attention of one park and another. But I can tell you that 99% of the rates of services provided are exactly the same, because in the end – and that’s the key – all depend on the public administrations, the Galician board, the deputies and the parks that are represented in the consortia. Mrs. Díaz, you tell me you're already a little tired that I... incredibly, I think you told me, and if you didn't tell me, I understand that and I think a lot of people understood that. She's already tired of me coming here talking about emergencies, which I often compare to talking about emergencies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It turns out, except for the English case, that I think it's a mandatory appearance, although you've tried to turn it into something else, it's the first time I've ever come in to talk about emergencies. [[Murmurs.]] Not because I don't consider them important, which I consider very important, but because I've actually come up several times to talk about other subjects that are also important. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, as this matter should be that you wear out or get tired, you have the feeling that I'm talking a lot about emergencies. It's the first time I've come here to talk about emergencies and I hope to show up many more times, though you don't give him anything at all. Tell me what I'm talking about isochrons, what I'm talking about isochrons. Hey, isochrons is what guarantees people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u124	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz, call her in order. I'll call her in order. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Home!, because you're constantly interrupting and you're in attendance. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. You have a call to order. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u125	He was talking about that, except for that English appearance, where you put all your effort to move a sensation that I fortunately think didn't exist, because emergency services there acted in an absolutely professional way, and the volunteers that day showed everyone, all over Spain, everyone who was ready, were coordinated and gave the picture they had to give. You on that day, and since then – and I don't forget, just like many people don't forget – had that commitment to trying to destroy the professional work of emergencies the day they needed the most, the day they needed the most. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's also true, if you try to blame those who have not. You said a lot of things that will be written for a long time. Tell me everything is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u126	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, I hear... No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, I'm... No, I didn't hear such insult. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I didn't hear such insult and I'll check it out. I didn't hear it, but I'll check it out, I'll check it out. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll check it out, I'll check it out. Now what I'm asking is that, please, now, please, please let the vice president continue. Quiet, please! Go on. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll inform you, now let the vice president continue. Excuse me, let me continue with the Vice-President, that I will document myself on this matter. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I didn't hear him. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have to be careful, look, because, among other things, you're interrupting and I have to be careful to moderate the debate. If there was a certain order in this, I'd pay attention to everything. So, I can't... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] So please let the vice president continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was also talking, Mrs. Díaz, about my commitment to planning. It is absolutely necessary. And you put it, take the example of Reganosa, which is what she always talks about, and says that, of course, the measures that have been taken within the emergency plan of Punta Promotoro, which is called and covered, as you know, not only companies but those that are installed in that area, do not guarantee the security of the population and that it is a plan I don't know if from now on, but it has certainly come to understand it. Look, as you've acknowledged and I also recognize, I don't understand the concrete measures that need to be taken, that's what the technicians are for, and for that are the civil servants who are looking at these plans. You disqualify them, you believe that all this is a joke and that all the decisions made by the Galician Professionals, officials who have a lot of responsibility for emergencies and public security, saying that things are good, are absolutely not worth nothing and that the population is sold. I'm sorry to disagree with you and give you a professionalism and a respect to your work to the officials who aim at these plans. He was also talking to me about the Consortio da Coruña sentence. You know perfectly well that what you say is that one of the models of indirect management or concession is invalid, and that's what it's a service contract, but it doesn't at any time discuss the indirect management model, which you certainly call "wheel model." I suppose it will also be the "Bestère model", the "Moreda model", the "Nogueira model", the model of all the conceliers and deputies of the BNG who were..., the " Baltar model" too, as president of the parliament, indeed all those responsible... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u129	...socialists and the Block who for years voted in favour of these consortia and the way of constitution. But now we'll talk about it too. Mrs. Soneira, you say this is a bit on Mrs. Díaz's line, especially for not talking about other things. He said a "fall," and he thought it a lot; I suppose in the subconscious he had -- I thought it was anecdotal. Because also talking about emergencies is something that doesn't matter, it's neither urgent nor fundamental. The urgency is to talk about the issue of Ourense or the urgency is to talk about a matter of six years ago, where, by the way, his role is still to be clarified......in the subject he was telling me he's still to clarify his role, Mrs. Soneira. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u130	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Mrs. Hold on, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u131	That the urgent one is talking about the entry into force of a law with which, according to the President of the FEMP announces, there will be a disagreement between many municipalities that say they are not in agreement with that statement – a series of catastrophes with respect to the management of services, when the Ministry has clarified that this will not be, and by the way, that same law that says, again says..., once again that the competences in emergencies, in case it has not been clear enough, that it has already been, the Bipartite Law of the year 2007, of emergency,, that competences are..., that emergency obligations are the responsibility of the municipalities and, incidentally, of the deputies. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll say this law again, too, giving them the reason they said in 2007. Tell me, too, that we've speeded up a lot with the Road building and we've already opened it and that everything is for electoral reasons. Listen! I remind you that in 2009 we met the forecast of doing this same building but in Oroso; that is, much more expensive and with the recruitment of the technology system – by the secret procedure – auctioned and to help even before the construction project existed; that is, first the computers and then all the building that was to be done. By 2009, they had taken him to another place, too. If those weren't in a hurry, eh!, a series of tenders for reasons of urgency and secret procedure to do almost in functions, and it turns out that the building wasn't even projected. Yes, they had, by double price, decided to take him to another place too. Tell me about the GHG agreement. Look, actually, we're negotiating with Fegamp. Is it not logical to expect that Fegamp will be set up immediately, immediately, it was the first call received by the President of the Fegamp saying that we should talk about the GHG agreement, indeed, with those who have to make the decisions, because so decided by the mayors and mayors of Greece immediately, two weeks ago – and I also understand that it is a time to take – to tell us whether the agreement they were given is worth it or not and immediately process it? You know, because they are told, that they guarantee the stability of these workers, of these groups and children, according to Mrs. Peace, but that they are so important to all. You know, that's not at stake. Now, what we're going to have to discuss is whether the proposed functions, whether the proposed improvements, are acquiesced or not, and reach consensus among all. But you know – and if you don't know, ask the Socialist mayors and mayors – that stability was what mattered most to the Council of Galicia because we believe in these groups, and the councils that they have and are attended to by the groups too, because they believe that they are functioning effectively – better, but effective – they know that stability is fully guaranteed. Give me an example of an unsolved altercation in cross-border areas. I agree, that's why we want to do the Ariem Project, which is why we think there's a lot to improve, and that's why we're going to continue to persevere, even though you don't give him any importance at all. Finally, to tell you that the Galician Union – the way in which I wanted to sum up what I meant in my first appearance and the reason for this appearance – what you want to do is deal with emergency management. What you want is that more and more Greeks, with that of the isochrons – which you ask, Mrs. Díaz – are guaranteed professionally – live where they live – an effective service. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] The Galician Union, already before it ruled the People's Party since 2009; in 2005, in the bipartisan era, and now also, what it wants is to allocate the resources it has to make this work, and it's open to any suggestions you want to make. Therefore, since the Rueda model was both criticized for Mr. Moreda's model, for Mr. Besteiro's model and all those who support it from the beginning; Mrs. Díaz, you who go through the parks saying that everything is so easy – probably because they have not entered any deputation to govern – saying that one day for another the system can change, that it is much cheaper and that it will work much better, saying that the system that is now is much more expensive, much more ineffective, much more dangerous, we are willing to listen to any proposal. We are willing, with the resources that you are applying to the Council of Galicia – by the way, more than any other Administration, that if you have direct responsibilities, you will again say, the Emergency Act of 2007 and the Law of Local Regime bases in your modification, which clearly says, without any doubt, that it is the competence of the councils and deputies – and then supporting a model of consortium of firefighters with the changes they want to make. Yes, who proposes changes will be what they have to explain to professionals – who in my opinion are doing a great job – how these changes will be made, like integration processes, such as consolidation. Of course, guarantee... You said so many times, and recently they said that the system was a disaster and that it was much more expensive. They also said socialist representatives and, above all, the BNG in the MPs. Well, if it's going to cost less money, everyone is delighted that the system will improve, Junta won't oppose. So if they're not in line with this system, they propose the changes, they assume the overcosts there might be, they assume the integration processes, and they'll have the Galician Union ready to listen to them. What it can't be is that we're diverting so many public resources out of the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks to be listening to them every day that the system is a disaster, which is dangerous, which is ineffective and which is absolutely worthless. To those who propose changes, to those who say that we must change, we are willing to listen to them. That's right, professionals have to explain how it's done, what it's worth and where it's going to take us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u132	Thank you, Vice President. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u133	It is clear that there is not much to say about this comprehensive Emergency Plan because the spokesperson for the People's Party spoke of everything but the Emergency Plan, so we understand that they are the People's Party, they support the Government and are in line with the whole paraphernalia, but obviously not a minute devoted to the intervention. That's right, the president wasn't told to show the subject. There was no problem. Mr. Vice-President, I give a lot of importance to emergencies, so I tell you that the best fight against emergencies is prevention; and you talked nothing about prevention in the first or second intervention. An emergency plan without a prevention plan is a broken plan, so I'm going back to having a plan to act desperate rather than a plan to avoid emergencies and minimize the consequences if they happen. As for the staff, I told him about it because I think he comes here to talk about respect, gratitude, recognition, the sacrifice that the staff of the administration – any staff, I don't care – and then repeatedly deny him the recognition of his rights, improvements in work, giving him the PPEs so that his health will not suffer more from the essential work they have to do during their work, that seems to me the real thing about the workers and the workers, the other one is an empty speech. So I'm still thinking it's a balloon with nothing else behind it. Nor did he object to me that they intend to do with Seaga's staff, if they will continue to maintain it in that situation of extreme precariousness, which is absolute discrimination with any other person who works for the administration, both directly and through private companies. They're the only ones who are discriminated against and those who apply the Staff Regulations, without any recognition and with a contract that doesn't give them to survive. That staff should be used to do those prevention work that I was talking about and to give them at least nine months of recruitment that would allow them to live at least for a few months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u134	Excuse me a moment, you don't listen. Please, megaphony of the rostrum, please. Let's see now. [[Pause.]] [[Pause.]] Please, let's see if they can fix it. See? [[Pause.]] Let's see if they fix it. Don't you? There's a problem there. See if the House services can solve this problem we have with the rostrum. Now. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u135	Now. Okay. Well, I'll take it back. Budgets. Budgets include EUR 4300,000 less for emergencies. It shocks me, however, with an emergency plan to develop, and the budget just goes down. At the center of the road I didn't tell you that it wasn't answered, what I'm telling you is that it won't improve the answer the fact that it coincides in a physical setting, that's not going to improve anything. The improvement in the service would end with fragmentation, because it's not the same coordination as having a single body where workers and workers have the same orders, same rights and same duties among all. That's what would give rise to a single body that works in the right conditions and without discrimination. It's important to have a unique specialized and professional body. I think that's the way to go. He didn't talk about any improvement in the training of all professionals, and much less about the improvement in the start of Education for Citizenship, for children, in schools. He didn't talk about public buildings, especially where there's a massive public influx, such as hospitals, schools or shopping malls. Or as it happened the other day in Madrid or Germany, having to empty a football stadium, for example, we don't have such practices. Improving the working conditions – as I have said – and the sufficient air resources, advanced life support ambulances and delivering PPE in condition for all emergency workers and workers, as well as a staffing that avoids those twelve-hour days – and sometimes more – that they have to meet. To finish – it has nothing to do with the issue of emergency – I find it very sad that the vice-president, responsible for equality and fighting against gender-based violence, says that what happened in Ourense with Mr Baltar is not serious, it is very serious! Which doesn't mean the rest of the things that happen in the world aren't serious. But it's serious, and for women it's very serious. And it's very serious that the Galician Union responds with that passivity, that cover-up and that reinforcement of certain actions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. First, Mr. Vice-President, I assume the suspension you put me in geography. Actually, it's on the Road and not on Silleda, but as I was talking about Silleda Park, I had a mental lapse. I accept the suspension and will study more for the next time. With regard to Tetra, I think you heard me wrong, Mr. Vice-President. What I was talking about was the mechanism that replaced the remote you removed in 2013, after the Angelis accident. And with regard to GHGs, I'm going to reiterate myself in what I said in my first intervention: I'm a real engineer. You tell me, Mr Vice-President, how one can define a group of two people – we start out there, a group of two people – who has to meet a territorial area of six, seven, five or eight municipalities at least. A group of two people who have to deal with this area and who, according to Mr Villanueva told us when the engineer was born in the Commission, have to attend such tasks as fires, scraps – you said today they would still be given more competence in that area –, in the field of roads, cleaning of blankets, road safety and emergencies. Well, I don't think there's anything else that keeps that definition going on. Ah! And what's more, as it's just two gentlemen, when there's a problem, is that civil protection volunteers get diets, because because they can't pay a salary, they get diets. So, we're using volunteer civil protection practice to do a job that should be done by professional workers. Besides, you know that the first intervention should not be done by civil protection volunteers. But let's go to the point, what you talked about at the end of your second intervention. We have a service, except in the seven cities and the Silleda park, absolutely privatized, a dismembered service, an uncoordinated service. You, Vice President, are you willing to sit at a table...? –By the way, we also present an amendment to rescue the service for the public service. Are you willing to sit on a table with the deputies, with the municipalities, with the workers, to look at the possibility of rescuing the service? I'm going to give you just two data and tell you where I got them from: Official Bulletin of the Province of Ourense, January 29, 2014. Budget of Valdeorras Comarcal Park, EUR 941,336, privatised; Official Bulletin of the Province of Pontevedra, May 8, 2014 – I say the dates for not saying that I lie –, Parc do Tena –o de Silleda –, not privatized, of public management, EUR 816,542. That is, it costs 127,000 euros less a year a public management park than a privatized one. But I'm going to give you another data. Do you know how much a fireman charges for the driver of Valdeorras? Between 21,000 and 22,000 euros depending on how old you are. Do you know how much you charge or Sileda? Between 24,000 and 25,000 euros. It costs less and they charge more workers. Do you know what they do in public management parks when something, a truck or anything is broken, and you have to spend more than 5,000 euros? They are attached to a clause in the terms of conditions that says they have a franchise; and, therefore, they spend months fighting with the Administration not to rest or fix that machine. That's how the Eume firemen got hung, 'cause they were on a broken truck! And I'm going to give you another example. On top of that, differences in the perception of the service by the neighbors. Let's give you the example of the door, which says you don't want people calling the fire department because they're trapped in the door. We're going to talk about the spiders, which the Maya bee is doing a lot of damage to Galicia lately. By withdrawing a bird in Verín, 250 euros. By withdrawing a bird in Silleda, 50 euros. Mr. Vice-President, I also looked at him in the official papers. So when are you ready to start this process? Because you say, how much will it cost? Well, I'm going to tell you one thing, it's going to cost a lot less if you and the Galician Council, at the Ourense Provincial Consortium, defend that what you told us here a few minutes ago is not met. You told us here a few minutes ago that within nothing will be taken from the joint management of the four comarcial parks that will be in Ourense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u139	...incorporated into the Consortium. Come here in the next intervention and say: I'm sorry, the board is going to defend in the Urense Consortium that instead of taking out the bid, it's going to make the public service, because it's going to cost them less the ransom. If they don't privatize him anymore, we don't have to rescue him. So, Mr. Vice-President, tell us too when they're going to sit down and negotiate with the workers and consortia the regulations and the fireman's status. And allow me, by the way, to finish, two more things of commitment that have to do with them. You improve the remote to do something similar to what was before Anchors, and also improve the call activation protocols. Because what can't be, where there's a fire station, if you call another device, whether it's GES or it's a comarcal park, 20 or 30 kilometers. And look, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u140	Thank you. End, end, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u141	...what you said here, about the Town Hall of Pontevedra and its refusal to leave the park, is a genuine falsehood, and I hope you remove it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u143	Mr. President, I don't know if you've had time to check out what Mr. Tellado said by calling me a carnage, I hope so. Otherwise, I will go to the honourable Member's committee. I say that, of course, because it seems pretty serious to me, besides being who it is, that it is the voice of the People's Party. And since it was quite obvious what he said, I hope that, once this intervention is over, he demands that you withdraw what he said. Otherwise, I'll exercise my rights. I'm sorry I have to get here, but I'm going to do it, without a doubt. I think it's pretty serious that in a Chamber it's said that by an organization's spokesman that I know it's serious; to call someone a carnager. Having said what, Mr. Rueda, what happens about emergency services, in the privatization of them, through basically three companies, and in a prominent manner of two, as you know, we're going to know once you're done with your mandate and we're able to do an audit on it. We're going to know that, Mr. Rueda, because you really have to explain here – I mean, again – why we are the only autonomous community that has privatized its services, when this is not so in the rest of the state. Secondly, I suppose you know recent statements by Mr. Minor, the Chief Emergency Officer. He told us they didn't go to the public emergency model because there were no examples. Mr. Rueda, I suppose you know what's going on in the rest of the state. If that's the reason why you're just in line with privatization, of course, you should change it quickly. Third, Mr. Rueda, when you talk about professionals, who do you mean? Because I suppose you know that this country's firemen have been on strike for a month or two, Mr. Rueda, for many months, Mr. Rueda! And why were you on strike, Mr. Rueda? Why? Why were they in agreement with their emergency system or because they really believed there were fundamental ones in themselves, even starting with their own working conditions, which on many occasions are absolutely unbearable, Mr. Rueda? What professionals are you talking about? Have you talked to them? Because I honestly don't think so. I asked you about one of the questions you didn't answer: professionalization of fire department; authority, yes or no? Regulation, status – call it as you wish – yes or no? They're going to comply with the emergency law before you finish your warrant, yes or no? Because – I insist – all unions agree that they want a statute, a regulation. I insist, they have a proposal, which has brought him here, to regulate his working conditions and to put order in our country. Are you going to do it, yes or no? It's very simple. If you're so worried about professionals, really do it. You may also be concerned about that service, which is a call center, as you know, which is 112, because you are in sickening conditions, Mr. Rueda. Are they worried about them, yes or no? Will they also follow those precarious conditions, yes or no? It's very simple. Look, Mr. Rueda, who opened the next emergency building on the Road before the city halls was you, it wasn't me. If you like, take the picture, and you're opening it. Yes, indeed, then he said to the committee that he was going to run next year. But it wasn't me who opened it, it was you. If you opened it – I suppose for election purposes – it's your responsibility, it's not mine. But he inaugurated something that didn't work, Mr. Rueda, to take a picture. I insist, if you like, I give you the file we have; the hemerotheque is, without a doubt, for something. Then, Mr. Rueda, we have here the calculation of the professionals of the direct provision services of the park of the Ten, and you know how I am that is much cheaper. If it's cheaper, why do you go to privatization? But not only that, I suppose you know perfectly – or you should know it – the Court of Auditors report. And the Court of Auditors' report speaks clearly and sets five examples of services that come out much more expensive when they are privatized than when they don't. And finished with a question, Mr. Rueda, that you told a truth in half. He's talking about the resolution that solves the Coruña Consortium's bidding. Of course he's not talking about the provision of services. That's not discussed, Mr. Rueda. What that resolution says, which is quite serious, is that you little less did what you wanted in that bidding process. So again, a fundamental parameter in the right, as is that companies compete with risk and adventure, says the resolution that is not met. The company was there little less than guaranteed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u145	And the second element – finished, president –. That resolution states that the fundamental principle, which was to ensure that the rest of companies on equal terms could come, was not given. Say it as you like, but it's a little bit more or less what I said to him: that he was missing at the auction the shoe number of the company you wanted him to come in. So we assume responsibilities. I insist, why are they still privatizing a service that we'll know what's behind it when we do a public audit about it? Because of course there's some interest, Mr. Rueda! Why are we the only autonomous community that we have privatized this? If you can, please – authority, regulation, status, as you wish – tell us yes or no or if you will finish your mandate by leaving everything as we have: privatised, precariously and in an absolutely chaotic way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think it's any secret that the control that the German Government has over society can be considered high, quite high. Now, Mr. Vice-President, let that lead you even to try to control what we're going to say or not say here in the opposition groups, at least with the Socialist Group, you won't be able to do it. And with this honourable Member, what do you want me to say? Anyway, we've been on this for some time now, too, and there are things we're not going to go through. I worry about something, because I, as you know, have been here for a long time and therefore have a good relationship with a lot of people. I don't mix personal affinities with political militancy, and I know that there are a lot of people in these seats who are stuffed, aborted! And if you say that defending the dignity of institutions and the dignity of people is not a matter of sufficient importance to show up, the truth is that I care a lot about it. You'll know why they're covering for indignity, and here I stay. When you said before you wanted to recognize the work... the workers' work – not to be redundant –, Mr. Rueda, when you spoke to the 112 workers to tell them they were going to be transferred? When did you talk to the medical emergencies to tell them they were going to have their job somewhere other than where they have it right now? By the way, after making investments in the center they had better working conditions. When you spoke to people – I would say forest firefighters, but no, that category is not recognized, so when you spoke to them – that you play life in summer by extinguishing the fire, to tell you how your work situation and your conditions will improve with the changes you want, or that you come to tell us – we've been telling you for more than a year, telling you that they're going to get a lot better? When did you talk to the consortium firemen, to the different consortia? And of course, I don't have to ask the President of the Crown, Mrs. Prado, when Mr. Rueda will pay you. Mr. Rueda, the Vice President, you owe money to the Town Hall. They've got him assigned. So there's a part of the GES service that goes on behalf of the Galician Union and they're still waiting, because you're late for payments. Yes. And who's ahead of the money, because payrolls have to collect them and the workers, even if they're two in two, as Mrs. Paz says, do they need to bring resources to their home? Or will the municipalities wait for the GHG components to be paid by Mr. Rueda liquidate the share that corresponds to him? Man, this doesn't happen to me. Mayors have been addressed to me: you're going to debate this, ask Mr. Vice President when we charge, because people have to take the payroll home. Well, some are waiting, Mr. Rueda. And when he says stability is guaranteed, who's in charge of who, who's in charge? Because the municipalities are left, or they keep the service exclusively, at their expense – and it is a municipality, which is where it is rooted –, to do a temporary ERE until the agreement with the Fegamp is signed, or to lay off without further notice. How is it guaranteed? What's the mechanism? I'd like you to tell me. By the way, excuse me, Mrs. Rueda! You say you'd have to wait for Fegamp to be formed. Hey, this is a service that doesn't depend on elections, and there's a budget forecast. So, hey, can't the conditions be extended until, when the time comes, we sign a new agreement? Or the conventions, as was the constitution of the GHG at the time, are conditioned by the political color of what you're going to sign? Man, a little please, that you're a public administration professional. Mr. Rueda, I'm more concerned than I was, because in this country emergencies come essentially from the sea and more from forest fires, essentially. There are many others, it can happen from everything, because emergencies, of course, are not planned; so there are the problems. You once again had a second intervention where the sea was away. And you haven't answered me, by the way, when you're going to be connected to those 12,000 users that the president of the board said, and if we're going to coordinate also the emergencies at sea, which we have a problem there. You didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u149	I'm done with this, Mr. President. And then there's something that worries me too, which is the credibility of our president. Did the president say that or didn't he? This is a page... not even a journal of these revolutionaries. You just said here that what Mrs. Paz said, whether it failed or not, it couldn't be true because it still didn't work. But the president – I repeat – says: "The digital emergency network will be set on in January 2015 to provide Galicia with the most modern system in Spain and with the most cutting-edge technology."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u150	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u151	Let's see if he explains it to me, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, I see you very upset, and the truth is you have to have a political belt! I'm also going to ask for amparo and I'm also going to ask you to accumulate the things that you and your group have said. And you, if you weren't angry enough to forget the things you said about me from your chair, you'll also have to answer to that commission. We have to have a political circle, because from there we say many things and very serious things, and from his spokesman to all his group's representatives say very serious things about people, about the Members and Members who are part of the People's Parliamentary Group in particular, about the People's Parliamentary Group in general, and about the People's Party in general as well. [[Applause]] So you have to have a little bit more political belt, Mrs. Díaz, and you have to stick with the things we politically like and the things we don't like as well. We must have political belts and not glass jaws, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u154	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u155	I heard what you said, too. I also heard what you said about me. Do you want me to repeat it? I'm going to be a little more elegant and I'm not going to repeat the things you said about me, because, besides, I have political waist, Mrs. Díaz, because I know how to fit in. Because look, the good politician isn't just what's going like a meteorite, like you are, despite stepping on everyone who leaves behind, everyone who leaves in the bucket, but you have to be able to fit in. That's the best support in politics. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Díaz is not strict when she talks about appearances, because here the vice president has only appeared for emergencies on the subject of English. And if you don't remember, Mrs. Díaz, look: on February 12, 2013 he came up on the general lines of action of his council, on September 9, 2014 he came up on gender equality and violence policies, which they care so much about, he came in; also on February 10, he came up on cross-border cooperation, which he also cared about. I don't know if you have any memory, or... I ask you a little respect, because I didn't interrupt it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then you don't like to be interrupted, and he gets angry and asks for help. I ask you to be a little more respectful. Mrs. Paz said here that public services were much cheaper. The vice president has just launched a proposal, he has just said he's willing to talk about this. Then rescue the service, rescue it where they're ruling, rescue it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ah! of course, you have to assume the cost. Because you said, how do you finance that? The law you approved, Article 49, financing. Oh, of course, we don't want that. No, we want him to pay the board, but we don't rescue public services. Go to the election campaign, to say that public services are in the hands of private companies, which are niches of corruption, but then, when we get to the municipal governments, that's nothing, we hire our friend who's in the Outes Town Hall because he's going to make the report better than the deputy officer. Oh, of course! Oh, of course! [[Applause]] Look, I don't know if the Pontevedra Town Hall denies it or doesn't leave it in emergencies, but Mr Bugallo – who I don't see there – can tell you what happened when we talked about comarcas parks in Santiago. Santiago Town Hall also refused to fire firemen. It's no novelty, Mrs. Peace, that usually happens, sometimes happens, even if they are Town Councils of the Block. It happens, and also in municipalities that ruled the PSOE and the Block passed too. It also happened when you were ruling in Santiago, so it's not new to me. I say I don't know whether it's true or not, but I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised at all. Look, with your speech today, they show that you are prepared to live in the opposition, because they didn't make a single proposal, the only thing they came here was to criticize, first, Mr. Vice-President's appearance. If he looks bad because he shows up, and if he doesn't show up, we criticize him not to show up. If he shows up and explains ten or twelve things, we say he's here to talk about two trucks and drones. The rest of what he said doesn't matter. [[Murmurs.]] Tetra, I know that you have a problem with Tetra, Mrs. Díaz, but it's that, of course, you first have to learn that it's multi-annual. Because every year when it's the budget show, you say, we talked about Tetra last year, they're always selling Tetra. Because it's multi-annual, that's the first thing you have to take into account, multi-annual -- several years. So, all budgets also have part of a budget commitment, it's not a single year. [[Murmurs.]] And look, I ask, what is your model? Because today you came here to talk, to criticize what a government that has a model, a model that has a quality certification, a quality certification that doesn't give a government of the PP, which is a European body that gives it. You came here to talk about the 112 Integrated Emergency Care Center, which you haven't heard from anything about what you said now that it's easy for people with disabilities to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u157	...that there are some synergies that generate the Galician Academy of Public Safety. You heard nothing about it, you only heard about drones. And we've also heard of the Tetra Digital Emergency Network, Mr. Vice-President, where EUR 6.3 million was invested. What you don't like, you don't like being invested in new technologies, that you're investing in modernizing services, or equipment for civil protection groups, vehicles, trailers, carpentry... all that they don't like. Well, look, we congratulate the Government on all the investments it has made in emergency matters, for putting Galician emergencies at the vanguard of Europe, because emergencies in Galicia have the best supplies in Spain, even though they care about them. I know they don't like it. And if they want the service to be public, rescue it where they rule, rescue it, but they also assume the costs under article 49 of the Emergency Act. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up. Mr Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez – to follow the order again – tells me not to talk about prevention. It's that prevention plans and emergency plans are that, first of all, prevention where there are most risks, in addition to that. And I've already told him that there were many who haven't been up to date for so many years or even if they hadn't done it. Not to mention the simulations. Many simulations have been made, that the personnel who are in these potentially dangerous industries, some very dangerous – that they have to be somewhere – told us that this is the first time that such an activity was done; with which I believe that prevention through emergency plans... and I announced, in addition, that the Forest Fire Plan is going to be done now that of radiological risk and flood risk. I think it's talking a lot about prevention. As far as simulations are concerned, I agree that more simulations must be done. But I also remind you that you are responsible – and there is always one responsible, by regulation, for buildings – for those simulations, and the responsibility of the Galician Union is to approve those evacuation simulations and those emergency plans. Therefore, the initiative has to emerge – both public and particularly private – from those responsible, so that we will not have to regret anything later, and it will – and I agree – be the responsibility of the Council of Galicia to be obliged to monitor and encourage these simulations to be made. The budgets, he told me, decreased. Yes, they have decreased, but it's just that during this year – and I've already told you in my first intervention, and that hasn't brought anyone's attention, it must be that they think civil protection groups are still, we don't think, the poor emergency brothers, thousands of women and men who spend their time altruistically – we've given them nearly 5 million euros in material. Logically, if you give them a year, you don't need to renew it the following year. Still, there's an additional EUR 1 million to just complete some places where we know there's still a need for things. Besides, the building of 112 was built, so there was an important amount; above all, in technology, we do it now that we have the building and not the other way around, as they did in the Bipartite. And that also means that some resources that were this year don't have to be next year. But there's still a very high level of emergency investment. Mrs. Peace, speak again and reaffirm – very well, there you – in the son-in-law of the GES. I'm a son-in-law and they're useless. No council that I had GES, except Ponte Caldelas, if I'm not mistaken, gave up on him. Even though they all had a son-in-law, all mayors and mayors must be fools and all want to keep keeping the GES, none of us told us that he didn't want GES. You say they have little personal. Well, I've already told you that your law of the year 2007 clearly says that if the municipalities can't handle it, they have to be the deputies. We are now seeing the Deputy of Pontevedra as it will spend millions of euros on a plan to promote compost. There are even a hundred composers who will be hired. I say that it will also be worth investing a little – and you can tell Mr. Mosquera – in strengthening GHGs and not only has to go all to make compost. Maybe the deputies can fulfill their duties and reinforce the GHG, which I remind you that they only put 20% against 60% or more of them that they're putting the Galician Union in the maintenance of the GHG. We will now see what the priorities of Members are, and we will now see whether they are really willing to fulfil the obligations that you yourself have placed upon them. You voted yourself, because you were a Member in 2007, who had to be in charge, and you're not in charge. I've been asked several of you if I'm willing to sit down to see another model of management of the county parks. No doubt, I told them. What I'm just saying here is I'm here to keep it, and of course I'm willing. What you'll have to see is if you're willing to keep everything you've been telling park firefighters when they thought this moment wouldn't come, and if all those facilities for raising a company fireman one day and the next day being an official fireman they'll be able to do without any problems. You're telling them yes. We want to see. You, at best, no, your party. Maybe you're not directly. Like I said I don't talk to the firemen and you do... maybe it's because you're the one who doesn't talk to the firemen. They're telling them all that, that they can, without any problem, acquire staff status for a number of consolidation processes. You'll have to see what it's like. We can sit down and see if it's really possible. And if not, those who told them that this was possible and that no selection procedure should be done and that it was therefore an automatic translation we'll see if they can keep their word. We can talk about all that, just like we can talk about the costs. Look, we think this system works, it's been working for many years. There are thousands of well-attended and well-attended calls. But what we don't want is to take the opposite of those who have the competence, which are the deputies and the municipalities. Junta's paying for a competition that doesn't even suit her by law. And we don't want to do functions anymore, because we know that if the Board isn't there, the service won't be maintained. And so we're willing to keep it. Now, competition holders say if they want to manage it, and say if it's really cheaper. Here the only condition will be that the Greeks and the Greeks will cost them more of their taxes. If the system is the same... you cite two examples, and I can tell you that the management system in Pontevedra, right now, costs less than the indirect management system in Silleda Park? The costs are there to see them. But I'm not even going to get into that discussion, which I'm saying is that I suppose you'll agree that it doesn't have to cost you any more than any administration. And if it's going to cost less – that's what they're saying – including the ransoms, and if it's going to work much better, listen, we're completely in favor of sitting down tomorrow. And everyone who said a number of things will see if they're able to keep them now. What we want is that the service will work as best as possible. Because, Mrs. Díaz, it makes me so much fun to say that you're wishing – I know you're looking for it, another thing is that you're going to get it – that we leave the Government to get in the bag and do an audit. But do you not know that this is managed by a consortium where the deputies are, where they are representatives of the councils, where there is a secretary and intervener in the office that controls and guarantees legality? But what do you think it is? How do you think administrations work? You think this is a cave of thieves and you're going to find out all day you can get in the bag? Do you really believe that? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you think you can question the work of the secretaries and coordinators, the work of political leaders, the People's Party, but also the Socialist Party or the BNG, who have been representing their institutions, their parties and their administrations in the consortium for years? Do you think you're going to come in and do all that? [[Murmurs.]] No, I'm looking forward to -- I'm going to tell you again -- to see how you're going to be able to fulfill all those promises that you've made to many firemen, I'm hoping you'll explain it to the new leaders of several deputies. That's where the deputation raises a system change, we're willing to talk about it, and I say it publicly here in the rostrum. We'll see if everyone's for the same job, and we'll see if everything you said is cheaper, more effective and by magic art one becomes an official all of a sudden, we'll see if all of this is true and we'll also talk about costs and we'll talk about service effectiveness, of course we'll talk about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The 112 you are determined to say that it doesn't work well, to say that everything is a disaster. Anyway, fortunately, here we have certification and recognition that it works very well. In Andalusia – by the way, also ruling United Left, and I know that you don't like anything we speak of Andalusia – the Government of the Union of Andalusia, when I was ruling United Left, I suppose that with your consent, they bided and privatized 112, which, of course, has more than a thousand allegations of malfunction, which fortunately here does not happen, but it happens all the opposite. [[Murmurs.]] And ask me about the question of exercise of authority. And why didn't they give it to you in 2007 to those you normally vote for? Why did the Emergency Act not directly recognize the exercise of authority in 2007? Because they agreed that there could also be an indirect management system. And I'm telling you, for the firefighters to act, there's no need for that recognition. Firemen act when there's an emergency and they have absolutely no impediment. But we can talk about it, too. I just said we can kick the system up if responsible administrations want, there's no problem. We just want it to work, and, best of all, congratulations to everyone. Better indeed, Madam, indeed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The better it works, we'll all win. Now, we'll see if the things they're saying can be kept. We've already said that this system is good for us. If there's a better one, we're willing to discuss it. And then, of course, the status of firemen will come. When we know what fireman management system we want, when administrations that really have to put money into their financial commitments and can allow the board to better devote them to other competencies that are their own, because maybe we can talk about anything, including statute and firemanship. And Mrs. Soneira, of course I don't control what you're going to say, small responsibility!, away from me that responsibility! Now, I can think of what you've said, and I'll tell you again – and even more after your second intervention – that you in this emergency topic said: hit versus anecdotic. He doesn't care how important he is. What do you want me to say? He doesn't care how important he is, and he's got a lot. And I regret it because they are many professionals, many risk situations, many things that can be avoided, and they avoid, fortunately. That's right, investing money and trying to be coordinated, which is what I came to propose here. Tell me if I meet with the 112 workers to tell them they have to go. Hey, there were meetings with the company committee. Did you meet when they were leaving for Oroso? Don't! I know you don't. We do, to tell you that the center is going to improve, it's going to improve service and logically there's a transfer. I don't know if it's further than Oroso. Of course, that's where they'll walk. But the difference is that we're explaining it from the beginning, we wanted to meet the center a few months ago. And from there he wasn't just the president of the board, he was a lot of volunteers and volunteers, which for you don't exist, he didn't appoint the volunteers of Civil Protection none of the vocabularies who spoke at any of his appearances; I'm, at least, not conscious. And they went to visit the center because it is your home and the place where you will attend your work – I insist – altruistic. I don't follow you on the subject of GES, I don't know if you don't like them, who look like a son-in-law, like Mrs. Peace, or the problem is that if you owe money to some municipalities. In fact, they owe themselves some money, not just us, but Members. The Lugo Deputy for a long time refused to pay directly. How much it cost the Lugo Deputy to get into the GHG theme! Because it wasn't worth it, because it was all resources. Look, it was the ones who owed the most money and for more time. If the problem is that there's some council that hasn't yet come up, it's actually discussing the subject of the drafts, and I've already told you in my first appearance that we agree that there are issues to improve in that respect, and we discuss them with Fegamp. What would you have told me if we were to negotiate such a fundamental topic – although we already know the opinion of some – like the GES with a Fegamp in functions? I'm sure the first ones who would have come out are the ones who were planning to take the command of the Fegamp – because so the mayors and mayors decided – saying that this issue has to be talked about later, that there are many things to talk about. And we wait, I keep saying. Two weeks ago, Fegamp... and I don't criticize him for now – if more time passes, I'll start worrying – that they have to see him and review him with all the municipalities. But two weeks ago they have our proposal, and we've arrived in time if we're all deligent. And I'm not inclined to think that we're not going to be on a subject that I give you a lot of importance, because it complements an emergency map where we want to get to, and we want to meet what makes it so funny to Mrs. Díaz, who is the subject of isochrons, that all the Greeks and Greeks, live where they live, have guaranteed an emergency service for when they really need it; that we don't realize how important that is until we really need it. I came here – and with this finished, Mr. President – by the way, tell me the subject of coastguards. The intention of this building precisely – I told you also in the first intervention of appearance – is that there are professionals of all emergency services operating in Galicia, to end up doing an integration. That's the idea of the building, and that's why we built it, of course! That is the model we want to follow, that in the end people don't have to be thinking – it would be the most absurd thing in the world – which administration or body within the administration itself has the competence to attend to it. Of course, we have to understand, and for that it is designed, which is a matter of time, of change of mind. That's why we want emergencies to have a single attention at last; that's right, each one with his specialist. That's what we tend to do, and I agree that that's what we have to do. The Tetra network – by the way, the president announced – is unfolding throughout this year, being incorporated into fire stations, is incorporated into the police unit... this is gradual. Of course, if you think this is something that's not worth anything: 6 million euros, I save 37 million euros in ten years. If this isn't worth anything and it's much better than anything else... by the way, Mrs. Paz, all we've done with the remote is ask the fire department professionals to sign a confidentiality document. I'd miss more! It's just, if an emergency professional doesn't commit to keeping confidential about the emergency situations he knows, it's just that, as it is usually said, he shuts out and we go. I think this is perfectly understandable, and most professionals have understood that. From there, I lose myself. If you criticize a system that isn't even working, you must know a lot more than professionals and, of course, than myself. Again, I say that this appearance – and I take the words of the beginning – takes place at a time, ending the year 2015, in which an important effort has been made for years, both economically and in coordination and planning. The year 2016 has to be a year to start a lot of things and, I insist, also to talk about the new model of comarcas parks if everyone is willing to talk and take on the costs – those who want to change it – what this may suppose, and to assume the legal situations that can be given, and make reality if that is possible. We're also willing to talk about it, we're willing to talk about everything else. There are issues where little politics should be done. And I still think – despite some things I've heard here – that emergencies are one of the clearest examples of everything I just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u160	Thank you, Vice President. We'll stop the session until 16.15.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u161	Good afternoon, ladies. Let's restart the session with the appearance point. Appearances are piled up. The opinion of Mrs. Rural Media Advisor, on his own request, to report the general lines of action of his department The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for the Rural Environment, at the request of the Eighteen Members and Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, to explain in which will change rural policy with its arrival at the Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u162	You have the floor for your first intervention by the Middle Rural Counsellor, Mrs. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u163	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come today to note the strategic lines that the board I have the honour to address will address in 2016, according to the action of the Government and the administrative work line of the Rural Council for the forest, agricultural, livestock and agri-food sectors. I have to say, in addition, that the change that has taken place to give the importance that rural environment has in Galicia with the creation of this council is due to global recovery and wakes up with the intention of giving strategic impetus to the sectors most hit by the crisis. Thus, the designation of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Agri-Food is not capricious; livestock is the main generating sector of activity in the Greek countryside and its problem is complex. Since my arrival, I have focused my efforts on reaching out to Galician gainers with more acceptable conditions. For this reason, and without taking another two months in this responsibility, I had the opportunity to make different meetings with the sheep on foot, with the representations, with the tractor also, and even with the minister of agriculture, to demand consistency in the follow-up to the dairy agreement promoted by the ministry, which came into force last October, so that it has a positive impact on prices. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this agreement will offer a future and for the first time the possibility of giving stability, sustainability and transparency to such a strategic sector, I would say of the most strategic for Galicia. For now it has already been achieved to brake something very important, which was to continue to lower prices, to curb the fall of those prices and to increase them very slightly. So I'm going to come by and tell you the main lines of work this board is going to address in the next few months. On the one hand, the 2014-2020 Rural Development Plan, which, as I had before my colleagues in the Commission 3rd and in the appearance of budgets, was approved last 18 by the European Commission, and which will entail for our rurals a public investment of no less than 1,180 million euros for the period between now and 2020. Our efforts will focus mainly on three ways of action: The improvement in the quality of life of the rural population, promoting the provision of basic services that help to set the rural population, create employment and reduce the risk of poverty. Secondly, the promotion of the competitiveness of Greek agriculture by modernising agricultural and forestry holdings; the incorporation of young farmers into market-oriented farms with a capacity for economic diversification; and the management of the territory and improved productivity of the agri-food and forestry industry, promoting the production of high added value that we now lack. The conservation and re-evaluation of Galicia's natural and cultural heritage in rural areas, the promotion of sustainable management of natural resources and the fight against climate change. The measures are intended to empower the primary sector as a fundamental part of the Greek rural environment, ensuring that agricultural holdings develop productive models compatible with the environmental and territorial functions inherent in agricultural activity. I believe that by taking part in the development of a balanced and sustainable territory, we are going to promote the achievement of a sustainable rural area. In the course of well-being, we will also act to increase employment and improve the quality of life of farmers and workers in the agricultural sector, and to support their incomes as a basis for preserving the family character of Greek rural life. For this reason, it is essential to provide the population with access to safe, healthy, diversified food of good quality, thus contributing to the protection of public health and also in this way of farmers and workers in the agricultural sector. And not only for people, animal welfare and health is an undeniable goal in our agricultural policy. The same is true of the strengthening of the food industry in Galicia. We're going to approach it by working to increase the added value of our products, facilitating their export capacity. To that end, we must contribute to the collective organisation of farmers, encouraging the territorial relationship of production, processing and marketing of agricultural products, particularly through the promotion of short chains of marketing and support for research and innovation and the development of new agri-food products. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Greece considers the fight against rural depopulation to be irrevocable, so we mark ourselves as targets, on the one hand, to contribute to the renewal of farm owners and consolidate their agricultural activity; on the other hand, to promote the transfer of farms between family members and outside families and, like not?, to encourage the diversity of sustainable production systems in different agricultural areas to generate employment and also added value. Given the cross-sectional nature of the fight against depopulation, another objective is to design and promote among the competent advisors training in practice in the centres of work of the Greek agricultural and industrial agri-food farms and outside the autonomous community of students undergoing regular training studies, as well as to encourage their recruitment in different farms and industries. In the same way, we will favour the incorporation into agricultural holdings and their transmissions by natural or legal persons who justify their ability to carry out a viable project on an individual basis or integrate it into an associative exploitation. Through aid for the modernisation of agricultural holdings financed by the EAFRD funds, worth more than EUR 48 million, we will increase the funds devoted to improving agricultural holdings and also aid for the incorporation of young people. We added two new lines of action: aid to the first installation of small farms and service and counselling, as well as management and replacement, and we kept payments, the early cessation of agricultural activity and the aid for the recruitment of comprehensive agricultural insurance. All with the fundamental objectives of, on the one hand, numerically and geographically dispersal aid, focusing on the rural areas of the interiors of the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, improving the socio-economic weight of the agricultural sector and raising the percentage of women who access the ownership or quota of agricultural holdings, reaching and even hoping to exceed 50%. Diversifying the agricultural sector, given the productive potential of the Italian countryside, by incorporating aid into small farms. We will encourage the restructuring process to achieve a greater dimension of agricultural and livestock holdings, which is a more than fundamental issue. We will provide full protection for farmers and farmers, by hiring agricultural insurance lines, subsidized, adapted to the productive needs of agricultural activities and farmers in our rural areas, a real tool for dealing with natural disasters or other types of incency. We will promote the use of alternative energies for the moderation of costs on farms. Agricultural production represents the main asset of rural economic activity, measured both in terms of gross domestic product and in terms of employment. In this sense, it is a key element in the fixing of rural populations. This requires the application of sustainable approaches, geared to the production of quality foods, which meet the demand of a demanding and competitive plural market. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the achievement of a sustainable rural environment must necessarily start from the development of a balanced and sustainable territory. To that end we will focus our efforts to avoid the abandonment of the Greek agricultural model; also to promote both agricultural and complementary activity within the framework of sustainable economic and social development in the rural world, avoiding deforestation; to improve agricultural structures, in order to obtain decent incomes for farmers; to defend silvopastoristic systems of mountain use; to promote reuse and recovery and improvement of homes as well as facilities linked to agricultural holdings, and, like not, to maintain natural heritage and the protection of landscape. That's why training is so important. In Galicia we have six training and agroforestry experimentation centres, which will develop a comprehensive offer directed especially to youth and active population, integrating the different vocational training subsystems, professional initiation and continuing training of professionals in the sector. Actions are being designed to bring a more comprehensive and diversified training offer to all the Galician regions, especially the most disadvantaged areas. The permanent contact between this training system and the productive sector ensures an offer tailored to the needs and priorities of the different regions and production systems. In these six centres dependent on the Council, there is a lack of training cycles of medium and higher vocational training of agricultural specialities. Given the practical nature of this training, it is essential to provide the necessary equipment and media centres, taking into account the needs of infrastructure renewal to provide quality education in line with company demands. To achieve these objectives, the budget for forestry training will be increased by 103%, with the aim – as I said – of improving professional skills, with a particular focus on youth and rural women. In addition, we will open new lines of help for exchange actions, technology transfer and training activities. I am particularly interested in the exchange of good practices between farmers and farmers from different European countries and regions. We will also develop measures to bring training closer to the most disadvantaged high mountain areas with a mobile unit that will facilitate the improvement of professional skills. We know it's not an easy task and we must add effort by all those involved; by our administration, ladies and gentlemen, by you as people who will undoubtedly contribute to improving this sector, as well as by the inhabitants of the territory and society as a whole. It is very important that we realize that the sustainable development of rural areas is essential for the protection of land, with its own economic, environmental and social idiosyncrasy. For this, from the part that we belong to, we will try to take advantage of the potential of the local characteristics of agricultural space, to achieve the improvement of the demographic balance between urban and rural. In addition, we place ourselves as a duty the development of agricultural, livestock and forestry productions, ordering their coexistence with non-agricultural activities and integrating social and environmental functions, including here the fight against the greenhouse effect through the placing in value of biomass, the storage of sustainable vegetable carbon and the control of gas emissions. As for the well-being itself, directed both to the health of people and animals, and even plants, these days I had the honour to inaugurate the Fourth Animal Food Congress. From this congress we draw many conclusions, and also ideas for the future, but above all the certainty that both our food and that of our animals are perfectly secured, thanks to the comprehensive controls that are being carried out in the elaboration of thoughts. Although we always defend and defend the consumption of pasture and forage, it is also true that feeding through thought is essential in animal nutrition, by vitamins and nutrients, as well as many others. Galicia is Spain's first producer of controlled and quality food for cattle. In addition, it is the fourth autonomous community producing general thinking in the country. Intensive and regular systems of thought throughout the production chain provide both safety for animals and for the final consumer, and high quality food is produced in Galicia and, above all, safe from the point of view of controls. Animals produce better quality of milk and share better quality meat, complementing the fiber that provides the fodder of our farms with the properties of thought, which cannot be lacking in food to achieve a balance. Therefore, the guarantee for animals and people through comprehensive controls and nutritional balance are the keys to the excellence of animal nutrition. It's no coincidence, then, that they are like "Terreira galega" or "Pig Celta" among the first brands recognized by distribution and consumers as a guarantee of quality, and even better, security. We will continue to work in that direction, but also in the protection of plants, in the double prevention aspect to prevent the arrival and spread of pests and the management and integrated fight of pests to avoid the development of harmful organisms of plants and similar ones. Consumers, and more and more, demand quality food production, which is environmentally friendly and animal welfare and which is subject to a system of control and traceability. In this sense, the European Union is moving this demand into Community legislation in all its aspects: production, health, economic, environmental and social, so that food safety requirements become a reference for compliance. On the other hand, animal health does not consist solely of guaranteeing food security; it is a basic element both in the defence of public health and in the profitability of gainful production. In order to obtain safe food, we must ensure a proper level of protection of animal health and food chain. I am referring both to the identification of farms and animals, such as disease control and eradication programs, such as the hygiene of primary production, the quality of raw milk or waste treatment. Even so, vegetable health is also a fundamental axis of agricultural health policy. We will strengthen the lines aimed at maintaining and preserving the health and vitality of forest ecosystems, with special attention to the phytosanitary state of the Greek mountains and on a new line of work, which will be directed to the conservation of genetic, forest resources and the improvement of forest reproductive matter, to enhance the development of different varieties of forest species, ensuring that our mountains contribute to all environmental and social objectives. With regard to forest management and production, whose name is not random either, we will do special fincapé in forest development societies as an instrument to make the management of mountains sustainable and thus overcome the enormous fragmentation and the multitude of owners that hinders viable management and profitable exploitation. And I don't want to forget to mention to you that we are in a process of reviewing the Galician Forest Plan, within a working group made up of members of the Forest Council, who is already finishing their meetings, from which they will derive the post of guidelines that will serve as the basis for the review and thus count on a model of mountain updated and accepted by the Greek society, and which is supposed to point out our forest wealth. In the field of forest, we will also try to respond to demand for research and transfer, which will mean the continuous increase in the quantity and quality of forest products such as raw materials from Galicia's first and second transformation industry, to contribute to the improvement of its competitive position. In addition, we will intensify fire prevention techniques through the development of forestry treatments, which will reduce the vulnerability of forest masses, fires of cup and high intensity, fuel control techniques in slaughterhouses and techniques of extinction, control and safety in the fight against fires. I repeat the quality and I would like to stress the substantial improvement in the promotion of the marketing of our products, with more assistance to the operating costs of regulatory councils, especially for the smaller ones, and also for the promotion and marketing of our agricultural products, which come from small producers to industry and regulatory councils. In addition, quality controls will be strengthened, which is very important for the work of regulatory councils, since the control programs that apply are very expensive and even more so with the current obligation to believe in Enac, which requires more and more rigorous continuous controls. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, despite the prestige that Greek agri-food products have in the markets and also among consumers, the agricultural sector has important deficiencies and structural difficulties that make access to these markets difficult. The small business dimension and the lack of integration are the factors that limit their access to national and international markets in a competitive way, so it is essential to develop actions to promote the marketing of Greek agri-food products. And despite everything, we're talking -- even though we're saying it's a girl -- about an industry that makes 4,721 million euros a year and employs about 20,000 people in Galicia, which means 16.4% of the total billing and 15% of the total employment of the Galician industry. We will give more impetus to the Special Agri-Food Promotion Plan to carry out the promotional actions directly carried out by the Rural Media Council, advertising campaigns, fair attendance, organization of various events such as wine tastings, watermarks or complaints, and also those carried out directly by both regulatory councils and sectoral associations. These actions will mainly be based on the defence of the prestige of Galician agri-food production, the promotion and increase of the share of these products in the whole of the Greek food production. As a measure of support for modernization, internationalisation and improvement of competitiveness, innovation and productivity, we will focus on investment promotion strategy, which has a benefit for the Greek producers, as well as those with regard to incorporation and innovation to technological improvements, giving priority to areas in the process of depopulation or disadvantaged, with the aim of creating jobs and empowering sectors of industry and services. Also in aid to the Greek companies, in order to improve the marketing of their agricultural and agri-food products, we will increase aid for investments aimed at obtaining eco-products or aid also increased to investments made by associative base companies, so that the added value that comes up to the agri-food processing itself returns to the producers. Ladies and gentlemen, we found ourselves, in addition, in a crucial year for the launch of the new Leader 2014-2020, of which we hope to achieve even better results, which we will soon get to know and which are about to finish. The implementation of the program will once again bet on participation, through which the rural population will be the protagonist and define its own line and its local development strategies. The projects developed in the future of Plan Leader are today a source of vital importance for consolidation and job creation in rural areas. Only during 2015 will the program enable the consolidation of more than 1,500 jobs and the creation of more than 200 new jobs. Making rural population and improving its quality of life is an unattainable goal without improving rural infrastructure. The rush to irrigation and progress in the partial restructuring processes are one of the axes that this board will work on directly. We will help the Greek municipalities to make improvements in their basic infrastructures in rural areas, specifically within the Rural Road Framework Plan, which will benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u164	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u165	...both to the general population and to agricultural holdings. And already to finish, and although I have already expressed it on many occasions, I reiterate my personal commitment to continue working to make women more socially and economically visible, to overcome the gender gap in employment and employment and to promote the reconciliation and promotion of women's incorporation into rural organs and decision-making and participation positions. The woman has a leading role in agriculture, but it's also true that this role did not have all the social recognition that I would like, both social and economic, and also institutional. And it deserves a lot more. We must achieve full equality of opportunity between men and women, and this also in rural areas. And it's not just about a question of justice, that too. Full integration in a harmonious and supportive manner is key from an economic point of view, and all of this despite the difficulties faced by women in reconciling work and family life, and even more so in rural areas. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u166	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u167	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. Thank you very much for your presence. As you have said, it is new in the position of counsellor, and I would like to remind you that you are not in the lecture of an electoral rally; you are in the Chamber of Parliament of Galicia, which is the legislative body for debate of ideas and proposals. And I don't want to subtract, either, given the value that you made of the woman's figure, that you remember that there's a man in Ourense who just sexually harassed a woman and her party hasn't rejected him yet. [[Applause]] Clear this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u168	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u169	Tell me, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u170	...advisedly. Presumably.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u171	Presumably. I'm sorry. Presumably. It doesn't matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Clear this, Counselor, I ask myself, and I ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u172	Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u173	...if the Government of what you are part of can and wants to govern the economy of our country, or if it is the economic agents other than those who have the mango scissors in the crisis of the rural sector, which reflects in an alarming and obvious way in the dairy sector. Why do I ask this, why do I ask this, and why do I ask this? Because you, the new advisor, are still in the strategy of dividing the sector, in that motto that you're so good at dividing and you're going to win. They know this strategy well, when what you should do would be to work on the path of consensus between the parties involved, so as to express your response to the request of a meeting by the Platform in defense of the Greek milk sector on 27 September, in order to constitute a follow-up commission of the agreement for the stability and sustainability of the value chain of the milk cow. Your answer comes a month later practically, it comes on October 15, and the answer prays textually: "This advisor is launching the timely actions that respond to the thought in writing." "Nothing at all," that and saying nothing is all one. And the truth is, despite their response, milk prices in our country are still the lowest in the state and do not cover production costs. And interprofessional relationships are a pending subject, and the commitments made in the agreement have not been realized. The Guarantee Decree is a model type contract, the Welsh industry has problems absorbing the increase in production that was generated in Galicia with the end of quotas, and which brought as a result uncollected milk and that production is sold at milk prices in powder. The one-year dairy contract between industries and shopkeepers, designed to provide security and stability for the sector as regards milk prices and production volumes, has been prevented by the negative of most of the industry from deploying them and also by the inoperability of its Government. Only Senoble Iberian, after having applied the advance contract, makes a very positive assessment by checking that it contributes to curbing the price collapse in times of crisis, but also to moderate the heights in times of grace; so it considers it beneficial for industries and gain. If these contracts were to be implemented in Galicia, there would be a commitment to be made for all parties, hard and mature. Because the goal of the mobilizations that have just taken place in this city and the demands are not to get help or subsidies, which would be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, but to achieve dignified conditions so that the profession of gain is a project of future and life in our country. On the other hand, the summons and management of the promised aids that you have just announced is nothing more than a cluster of purposes since the first day that the Magram finishes a decree of aids for the dairy sector, intended to provide liquidity to dairy farmers who find themselves in a serious situation as a result of low prices. After having undergone numerous changes and procedures for access to the aid never published in the Official State Gazette but yes on the official ministry website, and characterized by improvisation in its processing, every day a new requirement giving rise to this so-called "return tomorrow" thing, which is owned by an obsolete and ineffective administration, gives the impression that what the ministry pursues is to eliminate applicants who would legally correspond to help, using strategies of confusion and concealment. But there are other rural sectors that are in charge of your advice, which you run, and I don't want to let you through on this show. A recent judgement of the National Audience has just ratified the ban on planting E.nites on an Asturian plot, as Ence intended. This fact is evidenced by the misconceptions of the forest policies of the current Government of Galicia, considering the current extension of E.globulus, regulating E.nitens, extending biomass and opening the doors to energy crops. Forest policies that benefit what is known as the economy of the fire, and that the assembly with destructive agricultural economies with the potentials of the Galician agribusiness dominate timber productivity with species of rapid growth disconnected from agricultural activity; the only real activity with possibilities of vital and economic development for many regions of our country – as you have said –, many of these deserts, Madam Counsellor, today. Because the forest policy of the PP governments – as you represent – is reduced to the promotion of wood production, especially eucalyptus and pine, forgetting the other multiple potentialities of the Galician mountain. But not only that, the measures you take are very negative for conservation, improvement and enjoyment of our mountains. They significantly reduce the separation distances of forest plantations with rural nuclei, allow continuous-mass plantations of pyrophilic species without any limit, eliminate the fringes of leafy species that act as cutters; and others without feeling like the privatization and dismantling of the Public Service for the Prevention and Extinction of Forest Fires. The result, Counsellor, of your policies in the Greek countryside, contemplated by you or by those who accompany you in your Government and in your party, looks at rural as a place of leisure for elites or of enrichment for alien multinationals. And the result of this is a rural – I am very sorry to have to say it – aged, whipped by immigration and precariousness; a forgotten and abandoned rural of politics; no services, counselor lady; no schools; no infrastructure; no health or social services; no banking branches, no cash boxes! A poorly reported rural, Counselor, there are no boxes in the countryside – I checked it the other day. Houses and people abandoned and buried by evil and forgetfulness that visualize the agony of a troubled land and subject to the dictates and interests that you defend and represent, and that they are none other than those of wild capitalism that we are all suffering. How can you say as a solution for the high mountain countryside a mobile unit to meet the needs of the high mountain when there has just been a PNL in this Parliament just now to put in value the Courel saw? How can you insult the inhabitants of the Courel mountain with this initiative? How can you defend your thoughts that way? Which also defends antibiotic feeding? Does this sound good to you, Counselor? How do you tell us these things and stay so worthy? And I have nothing but to say, but to regret that their policies are ruining, waving and ignoring the rural Greek. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor of the Middle Rural. The truth is, if the situation in rural areas was not so dramatic, its appearance would be to laugh, because – let me tell you with all due respect – you cannot be more naiver or more childish than you are in the sector, for example: beef beef – at prices on the floor – the rabbit meat sector – which still mobilized this morning in Santiago because they pay them at 1.30 and cost them to produce at 1.80–, those affected by the pine nematode for five years without a solution, poultry production in a rabbit-like situation, those of honey claiming solutions – at least you will receive them to try to find a solution to the proliferation of the Tutino Vespa – and the dairy sector –the backbone of the rural economy of this country, in the situation in which it is, with the platform gathering to reorganize mobilizations – which you come here, Madam Counsellor, to make a trade of some brand of hope, is in which you can sum up. Well, or talk to us about plant protection, which turns out that's going to be the most relevant. Look, I'm going to try to focus the intervention on three or four subjects, because you've talked about a lot and of course it's impossible to cover them all. Look, with regard to the Galician Rural Development Plan, I would like to see the Government of the Galician Union ever come to this Parliament – now, by the way, with over a year's delay in the Galician Rural Development Plan last week by the European Commission – to say something more than empty about the plan in general. Because, look, all you've told us here about the three or four strategic lines is what makes European legislation what the lines of rural development plans should be. But you didn't make any speculation or any prediction as to how this is going to be done here on the territory. What specific goals do you set with the Rural Development Plan? Because, of course, it's very nice to say that we're going to invest 1,180 million euros in improving the living conditions of the rural population, but what does that mean? Are we going to invest them in creating jobs? But what is that?, in what areas?, how?, when?, and, how many are the goals that are set. And speaking of the leadership line, the goal you've marked can't be more concrete, he said that with Leader 2014-2020 they hope to have even better results. We don't know any better results than what, but we hope they're better. Look, Counselor, with Leader 2014-2020, first you're going to put down everything that is leading philosophy, because it won't allow social participation. Because you reduce the groups in such a way that there are some who have an inextricable territorial area both to promote social participation and so that agents who have to promote projects in the territory can develop their work. And he also has another problem with his Leader Programme, and it is that he prevents municipalities – which in many places is the only dynamizing element that remains, as in mountain areas – from participating in productive projects. So I'd like to see if you can realise the second intervention, which consists of better results. Because, of course, in this budget next year – which for the first time you can incorporate funds from this Programme 2014-2020 – there are such curious things as lowering the Population Setting Program in rural areas; for example, lowering the Sustainable Production Systems Implementation Program. And then you come here to talk about the thought and it's very nice that cows eat grass, we know it! But how do you plan to implement sustainable productive systems if 66% of the resources allocated to this project have been reduced since 2009 and could be increased this year because we can incorporate RDP funds? It's absolutely contradictory and inexplicable for his intervention. With regard to innovation, it is very curious that you come here to talk about innovation, modernisation, training and application of knowledge in rural areas and in productive processes when you continue to reduce the research capacity of your own centres. Ingacal continues to keep the cuts in its budget, the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre is low. And the whole solution you bring to that outcome is a mobile car? Of course, really, they stop taking our hair, because, look, they're dismantling public training centers; they've eliminated the higher education cycles of Sergude and virtually all of Galicia's public centers in agricultural and forestry matter; they're eliminating and dismantling everything that training and counselling could be done through the local agricultural offices. It's true, you just said here a truth, which is that in the budgets for 2016 the money for forest training increases. But you know why, to privatize it, to give it to you... yes, yes, because it goes in chapter IV; to surely give more money to Natutechnia or any other company from a friend of the People's Party. And first of all, ma'am, do you think you're going to solve something by sending the Complaints Field to a mobile unit for formation? It's just, really, that seems to me to be more tender than in Gudini, they've shut down a health center that was in perfect condition to meet people now in a mobile unit, also in a truck. Forest policy. You're still only betting on the Sofors, which, of course, is a model that's giving wonderful results. And, therefore, we will continue to see year after year as it lowers the invoicing of the forest sector, as they continue to lose – as they have been lost in recent years – 3,000 jobs in that area, and how we have misused and wronged a great potential that this country has in this regard, and while it continues to burn the mountain every year. As for women, it's been very nice!, it almost makes me cry their ending by appealing here to the need to make women visible in the countryside. But perhaps you should begin, Counselor, by those 30,000 women working on farms who are not members of Social Security and who are listed as family support. Maybe you should start by getting the help back so that women can access the quota of farms, instead of coming here, put your hand in your heart and show us all your great commitment to rural women. And look, let me talk about what's really dramatic, what you hadn't talked about, which is about the dairy sector. Look, what do you plan to do about the dairy sector, about the three major problems in the dairy sector, which are the model of exploitation, the weakness of industry and the configuration of the chain? What do you plan to do, besides telling us battalions, how do I not know about agricultural association? It's true. In Galicia only 7% of milk being marketed through holdings which are in some type of cooperative, compared to 70.40 and peak in France, 70 in Germany or 97 in Ireland. But you're here telling us a mile of cooperativeism when you've reduced budgets to 78% since 2009 and three million more than you're going to reduce by 2014. Indeed, his speech is absolutely insatiable. What are you going to do to make farms land? Because the land mobilization program was loaded. Not a word of how many acres he plans to mobilize. Look, Counselor, so our farms can be competitive on earth, of 220,000...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u177	...acres that now have dairy farms, you have to go to at least 350,000. What are you going to do? And what are you going to do with the industry so that we really do something else in this country than sell raw milk or put in a brick? And finally, last morning you have a meeting with the Milky Sector Defense Platform. I would like, Counselor, that you today had used this forum to deny your CEO, that the other day in the commission he denied that the Galician Board had established a follow-up commission for the Madrid pacts. I'd like you to say from here that the Galician Union is going to make a follow-up commission, not just to see whether or not the Madrid Pact works – not to do so, but also to make proposals from Galicia, for various reasons, Counsellor. First, because Galicia has skills in livestock, and you can't be on vacation in San Caetano while...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u178	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u179	...others develop the skills you have assigned. And secondly, because the Madrid agreement, more than two months later, of course, is a real fiasco. Because look, Counselor, she says that she helped keep the milk price down, and that, as far as I know, what helped keep the milk price down is something called autumn, seasonality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u181	...in production and seasonality at milk prices. And, therefore, I ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u182	Time's up for you, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u183	...that in the second round, if possible, tell us something about what you've planned to do with the most important sector you have in your hands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u184	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u185	Good afternoon. Counselor, it was less bad than the request itself, because it seems like we've got her undressed, isn't it? It's just that the appearance was rather disappointing. Dissolute, sad, empty, full of generalities, seemed taken from Wikipedia, and did not look like a councilman of a government who faced his last year of this second legislation. Because, of course, to describe the quality of thought, to praise food security in a developed country, to talk about the qualities of our mountain, that... today morning we approved the basic planning plans, this is a basic appearance, the same goes for here that changed its name and goes to La Rioxa, to Castela-León, for anyone, it goes to any country in Europe. You are members of a government that has been seven years at this last stage, but that takes most of the time of democracy in this country, and then what I think I should do, rather than praising the nutritional qualities of thought, is what within the aspects that you quoted didn't work, why it didn't work, and what you've thought you did specifically to try to make it work. That's what I think you should do, and it's the least we can demand from you. For example, you were talking about fixing the population. No one's coming here to say we want rural desertion. Of course, you say, we're going to make policies for fixing the population. Well, they start by putting in 2016 budgets EUR 11 million less for the population fixation program – a good way to get started – but you haven't analyzed why during all these years the rural Galician has been losing population. Did you do an analysis of why, despite the policies – because Mrs. Rosa Quintana never said that her intention was to throw people out of the countryside, she said the same thing that you said: do we want to fix population in the countryside – did not work their policies, Counsellor? Did you analyze him? Because that's the first thing you have to do if you really want to fix population in rural. You didn't say that's what they were going to change so now if people stay in the countryside and don't go out as it is now. And don't tell me we're catastrophic. The RDP document, an analysis of the RDP of the council itself, speaks of a serious problem of depopulation in large areas of the interior of Galicia. It speaks of the province of Lugo and Ourense as 57% of the area and only 24% of the population. It also speaks of the aging of the rural population; the average age in the Spanish state, 44; in the rural Welsh, 49 and a half, Counselor, and rising. And you have to say why so far the policies of the People's Party have also failed in fixing young people in rural areas. You must have said that since 2007 this country has lost the equivalent of 36,000 jobs in the agricultural sector, 36,000, since 2007, in the last six years, since the last data, 36,000 jobs in the agricultural sector, why it happened, and tell us what measures you're going to implement to reverse it. You should explain why over the last six years 9,000 farms have been closed in this country and what you're going to do to change that, if you want them not to keep closing farms. You should explain and tell us how many of the young people who access the incorporation aids have just failed, because the data says that many of those who join you, even if you go out in press notes saying that this year we don't know how many people to join, never go out in press notes to tell how many of them fail and get indebted and have to pay for the help they promised to return for the first five years. They don't even have data, they don't know, because they don't care. What we do have data is us. The National Institute of Statistics tells us that we have a very serious problem of ageing the agricultural population. Only 4,68 % of the persons holding agricultural holdings are under 40 years of age, a very serious problem. You have to explain to us what you're going to do to make this change, so there's young people who get involved in agrarian activity and don't fail. We should say why in this country every euro of agricultural product only adds 0.6 to the value added industrialization transformation, when the European average is added 1.5 and 2; why you don't have a plan for the industrialization of the dairy sector in this country; why you don't have a strategic plan for the transformation-industrialization of wood in this country, because we are also 48% of the cuts and we represent 13% of the employment. You're talking about continuing to foster sophomores like basic units to manage the property, which is so scattered, so fragmented. Four sulphur since they're ruling, four; it represents less than 0.01% of the forest area in this country. And do you want to keep betting on that figure, instead of analyzing why that figure in six years was only four, and not altering anything? How many years do you think you might be able to get to a significant percentage of forest surface under the figure of sulphur? You were not so permissive or so patient with the government of the Bipartite with the uxfor. They've been criticised quickly because they haven't been trained, so they've been less than a year old. You're talking about research, counselling, training. You in the new RDP bet on privatizing training, counselling and research. And that's the absolute failure, that's not wanting to know how the agricultural farms in this country work, they don't have the capacity in principle to face private counseling. The only exit and fundamental exit is a public policy of research, counselling and training; there is no other. Training and agroforestry experimentation centres. Home! They've been here since Mr Feijó went to the government without covering the vacancies and dismantling these centers. The local agricultural offices have not filled the vacancies since Mr. Feijóo arrived. The Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre has reduced 45% of staff from 2012 to 2013 and 36% of investigators. Is that how they intend to further enhance knowledge in rural areas? The University of Lugo, no more telling you. You say the Leader, population fixation, Leader program. Home! There are things that were better to be quiet, there are things that were better to be quiet. You inherited a plan with 145 million for the Leader, reprogrammed to 122, executed 100 million -- never so little has been executed in history since there are Leader programs -- and you now dedicate 84 million, not 100.84; you go down, you have to reduce from 30 to 21 groups because you don't have enough budget allocation. They're useless, they'd better be honest and they'd say: we're going to dismantle the Leaders because we don't believe in them, because they won't be able to perform the function with this budget allocation and there's groups that go from Dubra Valley to Waitresses, it's not possible. Philosophy is incompatible with this territorial management. You're talking about that rural women, in the RDP itself, in the analysis of the RDP, are the first to abandon rural women, because they happen to have to bear the care of the larger ones, living conditions worse than men, and mainly because they don't have public social services to support them. So you can't talk about these things with empty concepts. You, if you want women to live in the countryside, put on public services and don't cut them, as if you're cutting them off. In the dairy sector, the result has already come. What you were able to say here is that we stopped the price downturn...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u186	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u187	Of course, man!, considering that we're in Galicia and that it has 80% of the State aid perceivers, because it's the ones that had the worst prices, when there were 30% of the livestock that were paid under it, I think that of the 22 cents or 24, man!, that if the price decrease stops, it's very much to thank you, yes. He couldn't say any positive effect of his agreement. The code of good practice is not even mandatory. With the code of good practice, Madam Counsellor, distribution and industry are not domesticated, no, with the code of good practice voluntary, and still above the National Competition Market Commission, ensuring that no distortion of the free market, which is the big objective, is not solved. You didn't come here to say what your idea of the industrialization of the dairy sector is. And then, as for the review of the Forest Plan, you should start by recognizing everything that the 92 People's Party of the Forest Plan failed to do. They have achieved virtually nothing, not even in the budget allocations, that there is a document around the Galego Economic Forum that says there is a deviation of 700 million euros, not to mention the forest districts, etc. So, what I ask of you, if you're an advisor to a government that hasn't just arrived...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u189	...is that he comes to us with concrete measures, with self-criticism and with an analysis of what was done wrong, because the data is there, Counselor. Don't laugh, don't laugh, the thing is sadder than to laugh, don't laugh. You can't come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u190	Finish, Mr. Sánchez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u191	...–it's over, Madam President, two seconds–...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u192	Yeah, but it's been longer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u193	...to laugh when he's done the show he's just made. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u194	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Group. You have the word of Mr. Pablo García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u195	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I'm convinced it was a joke, it was four and a quarter, and so he did it to throw it away, he did it to get us all--the truth is, he broke my waist, I have to recognize it." And the political measures I understand that you will expose them in the second round, because the truth – and I understand that it is unfair – is that you have a different time, but it is not our fault, it is Mr. Feijóo's fault. It's only been a month and it's peaking as a counselor, and so maybe it can work, but that's how it works, and that's not our fault, it's Feijóo's fault. We asked the advisor's resignation two years ago and peak, with which you could already establish the political lines before and surely be better for all, especially for the professionals. I also understood that today you had to come here... first, you are here today as advisor to the middle of the countryside because things weren't right, eh! Don't listen to Feijóo, the thing is very bad, very bad, eh! [[Laughter]] Counsellors are held by their shoulders; in agrarian terms, this is uphill, but the pile of unravellers not to the pile of slaughter. This is very bad, and that's why you're a Rural Middle East advisor, because, if the thing was right, you wouldn't be a Rural Middle East advisor to an election year. So we have to get out of there, that thing was wrong. Once the thing is wrong, I understand that you come here – or you should come and so I ask you – for at least two fundamental aspects: First, what do we do with all that that was wrong, with six years of government? Do you put the backpack from those six years of government that Mrs. Quintana and Mr. Feijóo had on their backs and you put it on? Or else...? And I'm not asking you to come here to criticize Mrs. Quintana, because it would be incomprehensible in political and miserable terms in human terms, and neither you nor I are miserable and, above all, we do not intend to waste time. So I don't ask you for that criticism, but if I ask you for an analysis of the situation, that is, we have to describe a reality that exists and, if you want – and I understand it perfectly – aseptically. I've been critical of her, and very hard, all these years and therefore I don't want to touch her either, but obviously we're starting from a situation, Counselor. So you have to decide what to do with that situation and at least analyze it. And I don't ask you anymore – I repeat – I don't ask you for any kind of ridicule. And the second fundamental theme: what are you going to do this year? Because he's got a year left as an advisor to the middle of the countryside, so he has to decide what he'll do in a year. And this is neither good nor bad, I repeat: I wish you had come four or three years ago, but it has come now and remains for a year, and therefore you will have to come here to prioritize what will be dedicated this year – if Feijóo does not want to delay the elections, which then remains less –. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, a year truffled with two electoral campaigns. Therefore, its field of action is what it is and its margin of maneuver is what it is. And, therefore, to read us all the programs that the board has, man, I'd miss more! But those go by themselves most of them, I mean... yes, don't tell me that you're going to control plant health or animal health, because I can't find five people out there in the rural world who are worried about vegetable health or animal health right now. Are you going to do that? Then, turn it off and let's go, as Mr. Rueda said in the morning. You'll have to prioritize what are the main problems we have right now and what you might have in this year. We said -- as I told you earlier -- 2 or 3 years ago where I could have done this analysis, where I could have made another type of priorities and where I could have set another type of strategies, but the times are what they are. So, you can't speak on a territorial basis, which is going to solve the problem of the territorial base of an inertia of the last six years, where Feijóo spoke for six years to draw a law that was passed in July – since the first day it was invested, I was here six years ago, and I'm taking it out in July this year – and what is a simple and plain amendment of the Particulate Concentration Act? And, therefore, in a year that remains, will this whole situation and the 30 years of the People's Party's government be reversed? You, now, this year? No, man, no! You have some more money this year for partial mergers because you have some more money from the RDP and, therefore, you'll be able to speed up some more partial mergers by then that they'll serve you so you can go and campaign by saying that the partial mergers are reactivated, but nothing else. By the way, it even started wrong, that you're already your CEO calling the mayors of the PP to see what concentrations are going on in every county, let's imagine the criterion. That's what you're going to do, but you're not going to reverse the situation of land mobility or partial mergers in the year you're left with government, Counsellor. If we start like this, we don't even start. So you have no field there – let's say – of no maneuver or margin, let's forget about it. In fact, the program still exists and you put it into the speech, but in practice, absolutely nothing. In addition, a partial concentration – you know what periods it takes – in a year is almost nothing done. You will not disbalance or undo the imbalance that has been maintained with the Government of the People's Party, as is tradition, from investing in forest to the detriment of other productive sectors. It is more, in the budgets just approved, precisely in that – let us say – over-evaluation, in theory, or that more is spent in a given sector, such as the forest sector, than in other productive sectors. And you, above all, won't undo and I won't discard in budgets the biggest problem of the board: you've already spent, when we approve the budgets on December 22,... you, on January 1st, four out of every ten euros already have spent on extinguishing the fire, four out of every ten! From there we started to work, of all those things that he said and some more that happened to him, but four out of every ten euros, on January 1st, are already spent. You're not going to reverse that either, nor can you be asked this year to advise you to reverse the situation; it's more, you didn't do it in budgets unless this year we were approved by the amendments of the opposition, which would also be quite new. Well, the CAP funds are already negotiated. Moreover, we have requested the resignation of the advisor from the negotiation of these funds. So – and I repeat –, not even for what the counselor has achieved and I will not judge you, not even for what you can do, but for what you do. The counselor, what happens is that she defended a position that prejudged the Greek interests; it wasn't that she couldn't get the Greek interests to benefit, no, that she defended in Madrid that the Greek interests were prejudiced and that's when we asked for the resignation. Well, it'll depend a little on who's in front of Fogga. It has some margin of manoeuvre for some aspects of the procedure that can facilitate something, but, in any case, the funds are distributed. The PDR is done, it has a certain margin, but it's done, and you're not going to have a maneuver margin there either. Industrialization of the dairy sector, look at a data: from July 2012 to July 2014 – i.e. in the last two years, knowing all of this we've been saying here in Parliament and its predecessor said that we were crazy, that we had no idea, that we were catastropheists, that we didn't know where the shots were going – in Europe we invested 5,500 million euros in 190 industrialization projects – around Europe and 190 million projects! – and in Spain, 3.5 percent of these 5,500 million. Galicia? Zero, zero euros and zero projects, when all Europe was doing what it had to do for these moments. We told the advisor here what we had to do and you were messing with milk, that's the reality. Now you want to reverse all this in a year? No, Counselor, we're serious. Look, I just got here asking for one thing: they talked to me about it. I ask you too, I do not ask for much more, but here and in the Commission I have come to ask those responsible only to speak to the case, nothing more. So you don't have room for maneuver beyond there are projects that will have to support and have a line to support, no doubt. So, what are you going to do about it? Of course, that's the question. Yes, there is one thing in which it has margin and which is also common to all productions – from the cuniculators that have been shown today, to the farmers, to the producers of wine, to the producers of meat, to the producers of milk, to the dairy sector –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u196	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u197	...the industrialization of products and making the value chain and the relations between producers and industries normal and there is real negotiation. That debate is now right on top of the table, and that's being approached now, not with the agreement – which is not valid – but nothing happens, there are mechanisms to work. So what are you going to do there? It's the only thing you can do this year, Counselor. Well, it would be the end of the day that ordinary grants were not granted, that there were not the courses that I had to have and that... of course, yes, Counselor, it would be the end, that is of course, but politically you only have that element, and therefore we would like to know how to approach that element and we are not left to be blind. "We're going to work to get the producers a better price." Man, of course! That would be the end! But how? Did we agree on a diagnosis, Counselor? What is your diagnosis of the situation? We agreed that with the current model... by the way, we've started wrong,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u198	Finish, please, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u199	...because for us the basic thing is that Galicia has that leadership and it's already being taken by Castela and León, which, for example, has just done something as basic as setting up a tracking mechanism for the agreement, we'll see if you want to do it tomorrow. But we agreed on the need for a state strategy to defend consumption in the state, which is to which we dedicate the Greek milk; mainly, the Greek milk goes to liquid milk – as was said before – and to the Spanish State. So we can't hide or wait for Europe to solve it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u200	Finish it, Mr. Garcia, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u201	...and we can't keep waiting for him to come to solve the rest of the state or the rest of the communities, because Galicia has to lead that process. So that's the only question you have to answer: whether you want and will lead this process and whether you're going to lead it or not, whether you've been elected as a Rural Middle Counsellor for this or whether you've been elected as a Rural Middle Adviser...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcia, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u203	... – Finished, Madam President – simply – and I would probably do so too, if I were the secretary of the People's Party –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u204	Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u205	...because there was a potential for you and giving rallying as advisor to the countryside, which I think is great and I would, too, but then I don't sell us here that comes to something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Popular Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u207	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, welcome. As you can see, opposition groups haven't given him a day's truce, they've already started with their usual assault interventions, their management wear-out. Really, the trust they showed was predictable. And also the insults, because, Your Honor, I believe that Mrs. Peace when she qualifies her appearance as a child, as a native herself... well, I'm sorry, that I'm from the countryside and I didn't understand you well, I didn't understand her questions and her dialectics so thoroughly. What if I understood you, Mrs. Peace, is that you've said that since 2009 you've decreased I don't know what programme in particular 66%, all of them. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Did you realize that we were in a generalized crisis that affected the rural environment, that the rural environment is not an island? No, because, of course, the diagnosis is only right for groups such as the Gaga de Left Alternative, which today said that since – I think I remember – the year 2007 3,700 jobs have been lost and I don't know how many farms. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, I do know something: where you were fighting in 2007 please say... because maybe you were militating in a nationalist group that had government responsibilities and that then, when you were closing operations at 1,000 a year, you'll be touched by 10,000 farms in the period 2005-2009, you've closed up with strategies that come to be the saviors of the Italian countryside. [[Laughter]] You were really responsible for the policies you supported, responsible for the policies I shared and responsible, Your Honor, for the management which, as Mr Garcia says here, you dare advise the Counsellor not to listen to President Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I would like to ask Mr García who should listen, who should listen to within the Socialist Group, what do you think of the Agricultural Unions and the other García, which marks the political strategies of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that today's collation brought the mobilization of a sector which, like all primary productive sectors, is in difficulty. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, the productive sectors are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u208	Mr. Losada, please, a little bit about who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u209	...in a market which, from administrations, tries to influence and regulate. But to those farmers, Mr. Garcia, you know that they're currently paying more for their rabbit kilo than it costs to produce it, which has been about three weeks' ascent. But, of course, as it is foreseeable that in December these prices will continue to fall, and in January they will continue to be mobilized by caution. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if it's true, there's a seasonality in the prices of primary productions in origin, as is the case with milk. Mrs. Paz comes to say that the price of milk has now been recovered in a few cents because, by seasonality, it turns out that prices are rising now in the autumn. Mrs. Peace, then the seasonality of summer? Because, of course, when prices go down, seasonality doesn't exist, it's PP's fault. Indeed, demagogy today in the speeches of his lordships has been present. But, Counsellor – focusing on us – you inherit a rural in difficulty, a complicated situation that you need, in addition to continuing with the support of the Government and the group I belong to, ladies and gentlemen, a reliable, stable and credible opposition. One realizes that the political strategies that so far follow are buckets, exclusive of attack and confrontation with the Government, are not part of the solution to help improve reality. Your Honor, Counselor, your predecessors in charge have managed some of the most difficult years, given the general economic crisis. Now the data is better, but not that's why it's satisfactory. No one claims that the situation is right, but with responsibility they mark viable targets, like those he has today exposed in his intervention. So in 2009, resources were others, simplistic comparisons, such as those that were made today by the RDP, the Rural Development Programme, or even more specifically by Leader issues. So we had some planned budgets, but the generalized economic situation made it necessary to adjust those budgets, and today the situation is recovering. But, Counsellor, with the previous management, of their predecessors, they reduced the direct effects of the crisis and created a new policy framework for the Italian countryside. Today we have a normative scenario, with new developments that respond to commitments made by these governments and that it is up to them to continue to implement you. It has been sought, ladies and gentlemen, a more suitable situation, with more resources. You recently repeated and reiterated the strategic political lines in your appearance of budgets because that's really where the political strategies that are going to be followed in the next few months are placed, and these are growing for the first time in the last few years. But let us remember very briefly important issues that will benefit the rural environment. Especially at the autonomous level we have new regulations, the Land Mobility Act... of course, as we don't have Bantegal... do you remember that announcement by Mr. Suárez Canal, responsible, in the nationalist field, for mobilising land, when he said that in less than a year he was going to mobilize 100,000 hectares? To make those ads, those unwises – because I was a witness, Mrs. Peace –... you really ask them to announce themselves, how many? From 220,000 to 350,000 to support the dairy sector, you said. It's true, to mobilize the plots, the tendons, the farms, the size of them with the most useful agricultural surface, is one of the priorities of this council, and this is shown by their budgets and the lines that the Counsellor today... but, of course, you haven't heard what the Counsellor said, you disconnected. Like Mr. Gallego Lumba, who must have been the only one who disagreed, because he did during the intervention of the counsellor gestures and... right, Mr. Gallego Lumba? You know from the countryside, you're right. [[Murmurs.]] But we continue: Law of improvement of the land structure, Law of the hills of Galicia... Your Honor, and not only drafts, but regulations, laws at the level of Greek that will be modified, that will affect, in those issues that you here today have defined as strategies and that, according to you, are wrong. [[Murmurs.]] But let us focus exclusively on the incorporation of youth into rural areas. You know that in the new RDP, those who have so much hurt that the European Union, along with other communities, has not been the only ones... because, ladies and gentlemen, you remember when they tried to pass on to society: "The EU is putting the Rural Development Programme of the Union". Ah!, but, chance!, it was approved; like the other rural development programmes in our country of seventeen and eighteen. Mr. President, I have just – I think – missed Mrs. Paz about it, but really, as I am used to it, and I have very good ears, fine ears, we will deaf ears to their reactions, because here – as my companion said in the morning – fits political, none. But yes, at that time it was said that 400 clarifications were requested...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u211	Just like the clarifications that were requested from the other rural development programmes, because they were little more than obstacles for the PDR to be operational and the budgets of the next year could already be worked out on the basis of the programme itself. Mrs. Peace, you say you're coming with a year's delay. And how old was yours? [[Mrs. Paz Franco: Siii.]] But don't you remember? [[Laughter]] But I do! I counted the months because, then, I was really interested in making the advance of the CAP. Of course, now Mr. Garcia says that the CAP, as it is already managed by European funds, when the negotiation was really done, Galicia failed... Galicia has brought funds similar to other periods to Galicia, has brought an increase, especially to the dairy sector – you know it well and you don't raise your head – of 63%. These funds, which, with your management of Fogga, will have in your pockets, before the end of the year, the farms, along with other help. Because, of course, now the help is... what did your lords say here? Bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. But if there were no aid, ladies and gentlemen, with funds both from the Ministry and Europeans... that, of course, doubled the European funds and that in other additional crises in the milk sector...; additional funds that socialists tried to attract and did not bring. Because now it's 25.5 million to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u213	...all farms, Mr. García. In fact, ten minutes they don't give to be able to answer them, but I think the lady-in-law with her appearance today will try to work, fight, for the rural Greek, bad that she weighs on an unchangeable opposition; that's a fact that doesn't change. Because the strategies, both in the field of RDP – the strategies defined in the RDP – as well as the rest of the defined and crafted strategies based on their general directions, Madam Counsellor, will be the answer, are the only solution for the Italian rural. But the owners of the farms, the neighbors and neighbors we live in in rural areas also know that they are the only answer, because the alternatives, the proposals from the opposition, consist solely of the attack and confrontation; the consensus has forgotten. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u214	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica. Counselor of the Rural Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u215	What do you want the word for, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u216	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u217	Man, I think it was an allusion to... least of all. [[Murmurs.]] For God's sake, it wasn't... it was a minimal allusion, and even, if I may have the word, dear. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Please, it's not the subject for an allusion, let's go! But... now, if you want to get out of the regulation and say that you've been alluded to, because you've been alluded to, but I think it was an allusion, of course, out of all evil and without any ironic tone. [[Murmurs.]] Come on, please! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Home! Would you like to have a minute of glory? Have a minute of glory!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u218	Three minutes. Not one, three minutes of glory. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u219	One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u220	It is true that I have been attentive, of course, to the counsellor's intervention, but he has called my attention to the amount of obviousness he said during his intervention. It was amazing. I woke up... it's just, of course, I was here reading... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u221	What was the allusion? That's it. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u222	It's true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u223	He's here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u224	Mrs. Pacín is right. I've been careful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u225	Thank you, Mr. Gallego. Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Sit down, Mr. Gallego, please. Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] That's it. [[Laughter]] That's it. [[Laughter]] Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Replica. Counsellor, reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u226	The truth is, I'm surprised. I'll tell you that I come from local politics and respect is much greater. I'll also tell you, those of you who say that this is good for hupar, that I don't need anyone to lift me up, that I get up by myself. And I wish you could have 60 percent of the votes, just like I had a few months ago. [[Applause]] And those are the vows of the neighbors and the neighbors that they see every day that we're next to them. [[Applause]] And what I would ask here is a little more respect because, if you saw all this, the truth is... we're a little embarrassed. [[Applause]] Regardless of this and that I've already said it on the first day, that she was amazed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u227	Mr. Gallego, please. Mr. Gallego! [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, I have to call you in order. Silence! [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, I have to call you in order, I'm sorry. No, no, call order. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u228	Well, I guess it's up to me to continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u229	Call the order, Mr. Gallego. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u230	And I'll tell you, regardless of all this – that it's a reflection I'm thinking here on high and that I think that from time to time, especially those we've seen in rural politics – to others who don't go through rural areas, ladies and gentlemen, that there are villages, there are parishes, there are municipalities. And, of course, in the villages there are no cash registers, of course there are no cash registers. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u231	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u232	I'd miss more!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u233	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u234	There are no cash boxes in my village.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u235	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u236	...but two kilometers away...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u237	I'll suspend the full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u238	...which is a place called Melide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u239	I'll suspend the full moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u240	...then there are drawers. So let's not demagogy with rurals, please, and let's go more and more from time to time to find out what's there and what's not in rurals. [[Applause]] More mention on this matter when some honourable Member tells me that he doesn't trust me or that he doesn't listen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u241	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u242	...of Mr. Feijóo. I'll say it's my reference, just like it's the referent of all the Greeks, and if you follow it, of course, it's going to be the referent of Galicia. [[Applause]] More things. When we talk about a mobile car, it's not a mobile car, it's not a papal car. You criticized many years ago when buses would also do mammograms to women, and I'll tell them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u243	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u244	...that you know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u245	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u246	...that the romantic countryside does not exist, only exists in the landscape, but nothing else. That romantic cow's rural with the calf, without thought, doesn't exist; you tell the sheep, because there's no fat there, it's not protein. So what is paid for the milk is much lower; just as the quality of the meat is lower also. This is simply by allusions and by saying something about all this, because the word "thinks" seems like something demonized. You tell the gain-bearers, please, so they can see the result or not of everything else. Regardless of all this and speaking, for example, of whether you would receive the beekeepers or not to receive them, I will tell them that it was I who invited three beekeeper associations to maintain a meeting. What's going on? There's an association that confuses meetings with mobilizations. But I'm going to reunite them, because, if something characterizes me, of course it's dialogue, and if something characterizes me, it's not to be on vacation in San Caetano; it's to work, not in San Caetano, where I work as much as possible, I work for the Italian countryside, and I'm at the foot of the Greeks and Greeks who live in rural areas. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] As far as training is concerned, it will serve to increase 103% for training in our Greek rural area. Of course, there are no many unit schools anymore, but I'll tell you that my mother, who had the option of sending me to a unit school, decided not to send me because it wasn't the best thing. By following this whole thing, because four or five years doesn't make sense, and therefore we have to open up to another world. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They leave the concept of that romantic rural because those of us who live in rural areas don't want that. I keep saying, ladies and gentlemen, that it is true that milk prices are one of the fundamental problems for the yellow sheep, and they are suffering, of course. For that reason and to cushion his fall, different help has been enabled, but I see that you don't believe in the help, and if there were no help, they would be claiming help. The yellow oysters and yellow oysters are waiting like May water for those aids. And that's where we'll do something for the advisors and the team around us: we'll manage. And because of that management, the EUR 65.3 million corresponding to the advance of the CAP has already ended, and this autonomous community has made the only one that has made the three payments together. This early one was also engrossed in other aids, and therefore 4,4 million euros were re-claimed ahead of time after the problem of different files had been solved. So, we managed to remedy these deficiencies and we'll end this month by paying €69.7 million, which will give liquidity to our owners, who need it right now. In addition, the Council which I am directing has dealt with last Friday at the request of additional funds of EUR 7.1 million for compensatory compensation, which seek to compensate for the additional costs and losses of income incurred by agricultural production in mountain areas, in disadvantaged areas. Your payment will become effective this Friday and will be directed to 7,116 beneficiaries. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all of you that the territorial base is fundamental, and that is where we are going to work, in line with the conclusions of the recent study in addition to and recently published by the Galicia Economic Forum. We agreed on a lot of things with them and we agreed that in the current context neither dairy farms nor the Greek society are able to continue to assume the costs it entailed for the public archives and for the companies themselves – because they are no longer farms, they are companies, we have 9,500 companies scattered by rural Galicia – and therefore we have to set up other systems. And he said that study, and he says, we can't continue to import huge amounts of food into cattle at the prices they reach in international markets, and we have to say that it's now contained, but that's not something that we can have control over it, so it acquires much more relevance to the exploitation of our own forage potential. And that's where you're going to work this council. This is why it is essential to adapt and adapt current measures of the Italian agri-business to the uses and productive mobilization of the areas, especially in those with high agricultural potential and which are currently abandoned. And this will be accompanied by other actions that stimulate the adaptation of production models, reorienting the aid to encourage systems linked to the earth that give priority and improve efficiency, reducing costs, because we have to reduce costs, against investments in fixed capital, and focusing on training and counselling – and that does not mean a papal or a mobile car –, always bearing in mind the central role that will acquire the land as a condition of the viability of our farms. Another thing we have to do is to increase the size of industries through innovation, to develop new products and processes and to improve their positioning on the markets. While the starting situation I know that it's difficult and very difficult, evolution will depend, above all, on the private initiative, but it's essential to have a strategy for the dairy sector, which will go through promoting strategic investments through joint projects between companies, supporting partnerships between different groups and, above all, encouraging the involvement of the owners in industrial projects, supporting projects promoted by cooperatives, according to their business viability. The work carried out with the signature of the dairy agreement is nothing more than an advance in the organization of relations between the owners, between the industries and the distribution. And we have to keep moving. And, from this rostrum, as I said from the street, we call on the Ministry to deal with this. And if I may, I will make my own the words of Edelmiro López Iglesias, professor of Applied Economics of the USC and who has prepared — and many who do not know — the study of the Economic Forum to which I have just referred. Beyond immediate measures, there is a need for others in the long term on the reorientation of the productive system, the strengthening of industry through its diversification and the organization of the corporate-industry relationship. Our commitment to the earth is clear and very clear. Precisely in this same place you have already been brought forward by the President of the Council of Galicia in his day. Since our competition we have implemented the zero tax programme in rural areas, which will entail very important reductions and in different taxes that come from our competition. To go out to Metaga, as much as some don't like it so much, and to say that no transmission of farm, farm, plots – they call them as you want – on rustic floor will pay taxes of heritage transmission. They will also stop taxing the transmissions or expansions of agricultural holdings. The groupings of furrows, of rustic farms, will not pay the tax of documented legal acts either. Metaga also allows these benefits to be applied to people without agrarian activity who somehow put their land into the hands of farmers and landowners, that is, with a commitment and a conditioner, who have them for at least five years. The Land Bank counts for all effects as an agricultural recipient, with the same condition as a farmer or a farmer, so incorporating the farms into the Bank makes it possible to apply the same reduction to the taxable base. It's another thing we're going to work on, because we agree with all of you that the expansion of land on farms is fundamental, and these are the bases that we're imposing so that it's feasible. In addition, the transfer of rustic estates acquired by grants or successions can be the object of the benefit individually, without being associated with the rest of the inheritance. And if you do a purchase operation on a farm incorporated into the Land Bank, the property transfer tax and documented legal acts will be fined at 100%. With this I suppose I will respond to some of the concerns of your lords. As far as agricultural infrastructures are concerned, we have more than 50 works orders from the 2015 Particulate Concentration Plan, which I suppose you also support, with an order of execution and an amount of 6 million euros, and it has been increased in the last two months by 2.5 million euros. And in addition, we are finishing the Municipal Road Improvement Framework Plan and access to agrarian farms 2016, which aims to promote investments aimed at improving the existing rural network to facilitate accessibility to agricultural and forestry farms, with the following criteria and scope: investments in all the municipalities of Galicia, all the municipalities of Galicia, works in the municipal road infrastructures that facilitate access to agricultural holdings and which assume the expansion, improvement or maintenance of existing roads. The maximum allocation to finance this call for aid amounts to EUR 20 million, and this is also quality of life. So, I hope several of the questions you asked were answered, and speaking of what the loss of exploitation is, and the part of what I suppose has already been clarified, to tell you that, indeed, it is true that it decreases the number of holdings, but it is also true that over time it has increased production, so it is being resizing and professionalizing the sector, because with four, ten, twelve cows would not go anywhere. In addition, it must be borne in mind that during the Bipartite we lost 1,770 farms a year, and that rate has slowed down in the last six years at 70%. In contrast to all of this, tell you that the total production of milk in Galicia has increased by 335,000 tons over the past five years, and the number of heads per holding has passed over the last six years from 18 to 28 years, which means an increase of 55%. I mean, there's a redemension where the farms refer to and, therefore, that's the line that we had to follow at a given time for them to live in a dignified way. As far as forest production is concerned, because I tell you that, indeed, we have produced 50% of the wood from all over Spain and therefore 50% of its value. The challenge is to continue to increase the transformation sector, and there is the important effort that we make in the next budgets, but not only for industry, but for the German mountain and for an end: to eradicate the woodland which is the forest fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u248	Good afternoon again. Thank you, President. It is very regrettable, Counselor – said Sister Pacín – that we do not give her a truce, but it is that her party and government do not rout her at the first meeting as advisor. It seems to me totally and absolutely regrettable. I know, Counselor, that you come from the countryside, but that's not any merit. From the rural environment, from the people we're here, I think most of us have come from the rural environment, we have our roots and our origin in the Greek villages; at least me. And what I have in mind is that, when you have exercised the position of mayor of Melide – that is no longer as usual as coming from the rural environment, being mayor of Melide – it has risen up like a very strong stronghold against the gainful mobilizations. That's what I'm talking about, too. And you've already rejected all sorts of dialogue with the Galego Milk Sector Defense Platform – which, on the other hand, makes me very surprised that you do that, when it's the majority organization of professionals in the sector. From what Mrs Pacín, you were talking about the aid and what we have many... it is logical that in the distribution of aid from the European Community Galicia be benefited, only more would be missing; we have the lowest price of the whole European Union, and we continue to have it. Brown menu, Counselor, often brown put it and it sounds like it's here, eh!, no government member with you. Really, that's entrepreneurial. There is a report, Counsellor, prior to the last agreement, on the value chain of liquid milk, prepared by consultant Prodescan, by Inlac (group of producers, cooperatives and industries), which I think should not be suspicious of you. This study is designed to be useful in the debate on the problems facing the sector and to reach consensus among the parties in the search for solutions. But by the way, it has not achieved its objectives, because the discontent that continues to show the professionals, after the results of the new agreements taken in Madrid, tells us so. By the way, the sector will again mobilize on the 30th of this month – well things are going! – with a boycott to the distribution companies and at different supermarket chains to achieve an improvement in the price, an improvement in the price agreed by the shopkeepers, because we're still the ones we least charged. Besides, it only translates the increase, only if you see that at the price that we pay consumers. So someone will have to explain to me who's cashing out of this, because the crooks aren't. Someone will be, I say. The conclusions reached by the report of what I was talking about before, and which was sent to the Ministry of Agriculture in addition, are that the farmers lose an average of 2.3 cents/litre produced, while they get profits from distribution and industry. This text is dated 26th of 10th of 2015 the other day. And it is based on data collected at the beginning of 2015 and updated in August of the same year, at the price of the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund, and is carried out in a slot between the minimum and maximum income and costs of each part of the chain to determine the final margin. Speaking on the basis of the minimum income and cost values, because it's the closest scenario to our country, as you know, surely, where the lowest prices are given, the report concludes that the Welsh women lose an average of 2.3 cents per litre, while the distributors get a 3 cent profit and the industry of 0.4. So, with a raw milk sale of 27 liters, the dealer would get some revenue of 31.5 cents, including the aids of the CAP, or livestock sales. But the cost of production is 33.8 liters. Based on the maximum values, it turns out to be a benefit, but this weighted average price of milk is corrected by discounting Galicia and Cantabria. Margined Galician, Counselor, as always. Not represented in negotiations by those responsible for politics who are spoiled, changed and alone in the Government, who obey the mandates of others, the interests of our people, their people, their ways of life without a joke. What are they trying to achieve without shame, voting with European funds in electoral periods?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u250	...but that they don't have a future project for the earth, nor do they care, is that if you notice them very much, Counselor. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u251	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. PDR, I'm going to read you two headlines, Mrs. García Pacín, who asked me directly about this, and since I'm not allowed to show up, I can only read the headlines. "The European Commission approves the last Spanish RDPs". A few days ago, I referred to the current PDR. End of 2007: "The European Commission approves the first European RDPs." I told the PDR of that government that it was so bad, so bad, so bad. [[Applause]] Truce, of course!, truce can be given to a counselor or counsellor who comes for the first time when the Government has just taken possession. But, Counsellor, I am sorry, but as you inherit the office, official car and everything from your predecessor, and she in turn from your predecessor, inherits also the problems, and hence also the politics. So, to a government, to a councilman who comes here representing a government, who has been in government for six and a half years, and who's only one year left for the end of the legislation, as you will understand, we can't walk with truces, and much less we can walk with truces because you don't give the sector a truce, you don't give respite to the people who live and intend to continue living in the rural of your work. Because look, from the dairy sector, I'm not going to waste thirty seconds talking about the aids, but look, it's okay!, it's good that you come here always sell, as if they were panacea, and as if they were something we have on them to give thanks, and always the same, and always the same: the aids of the CAP. Look, ladies and gentlemen, since we entered the European Union, the help of the CAP has the right to perceive, govern, even if no one ruled, only if Fogga existed; look at what I say to you, even if you suppress your advice, only with which Fogga exists, which is the paying agency, will charge the help of the CAP. I don't know if 15 days before or after, but they're going to charge you, so don't come here always with that milonga, because it's the same as when Mr. Juárez came in 2009 to sell us a strategic plan of the dairy sector, 800 million euros. But don't take our hair off! These EUR 800 million were the 500,000 that the 2007-2013 RDP planned to invest in the dairy sector, were the Sustainable Rural Development Plan, that of the ministry, and were the aids of the CAP, so there was not even an extraordinary euro to invest in the dairy sector, and now we are in it again. And I tell you, Counsellor, because I see that you know Mr. Edelmiro Churches, that instead of coming here and quote uncontextually a sentence of what Mr. Churches says in that document, which by the way is what has been saying for many years, and by the way, that is what he put into practice when he was Director General of Rural Development in this country, he should read it completely, and should read what he says about the model of exploitation, and should tell us the truth here, of course! It's just that nobody here is saying that cows don't have to eat I think, but what we're saying is a model of less exploitation dependent on external inputs, and when we refer to externals, they don't come from Pernambuco, they are external to exploitation. I mean, we have to promote the production of ferrets in our own expropriation, and there are 130,000 hectares left to be sustainable. What are you going to do, aside from coming here, I don't know what the 50-percent plot concentrations are going to take place in 2016, when there are 200 alive. There have been 200 decrees of partial concentration that have been alive for more than 20 years. What are you going to do with the Land Bank? Because, of course, Mrs. García Pacín was very traumatized by the Macario, who was the figure of the Land Bank that had to popularize the Bipartite, but it is true that in six months of operation of the Land Bank, since it was in force, 10,000 hectares have been reached. I'd like to know, sometimes, how many have come since this government, since the People's Party is ruling the Land Bank? I'd like to know that change of law that was made to incorporate the lands of strangers, how many were finally able to incorporate? Weakness in industry. Counsellor, the problem here is not to come here and say we're at the top of the industry, we're at the top of transformation and diversification. Tell us what you're going to do with Galician Union. First, what you should do is select your projects a little bit better, and there's no milk food again. And secondly, given the economic weakness and industrial weakness that we have in this country, you should also tell us here whether you are willing to do anything more than help private companies, and that there may be a need for direct and active public intervention in the industrialization of the dairy sector in our country. Because what can't be is that we're still having 30% of milk exported out raw and the rest of it is liquid milk without any other kind of transformation. And look, that campaign that they're promoting milk consumption is very pretty, that's 100 percent Welsh! But I'm going to tell you one thing, and don't be disappointed, you're not worth trying to increase the consumption of milk in Galicia to solve the problems of our sector, because in Galicia we consume about 30% of the milk we produce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u254	..., the rest –0 70% – we export it. So, as much as you're doing promotion campaigns here, it won't be worth anything. And then the mother of the year, which is the price and the food chain. Do you intend to articulate some sort of mechanisms to vertebrate that chain, starting with the Follow-up Commission that I asked you before and that you haven't answered me yet? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u256	I don't know if it was the subconscious or the conscious who threw a bad pass at Mrs. García Pacín, but I think it translucently the mentality that you have and the opinion that you have about rural and what it's like to be rural. Mrs. Teresca Paz said that the advisor made an exhibition, a naive appearance, and you said "neif." We all have the right to be wrong, but when she stressed the naive one, you said, "I'm from the countryside." Of course, I'm from the countryside, and then I can't say anything good, I can't know as much as one from the city. [[Laughter]] Look, being rural today is not a merit, as the counselor intends to see, nor is it a reason to have any kind of complex. In rural we can learn about computer science, English, just as we can learn computer science and English in rural or city, understand me? That's the mindset of rural people. Autonode and prejudice is what you have with the countryside. He was talking about romanticism, the romantic rural. Yes, romanticism. No, look, we know there's nothing, we know why rural people go, we know why young people from rural, Counsellor, because in rural Galicia they don't have the same opportunities as in urban areas, and boys and girls in rural areas don't have the same opportunities as in cities, and that's why we know that people leave rural. But besides, it's a fact that goes from rural to rural, it's a fact, and the data is there. We have an aging population, and these rural areas are becoming increasingly deserted. Job destruction, Mrs. Pacín, since it's not worth it from 2007 to 2013, that I've always come to do the interventions I've never, like you, dedicated myself to speaking according to the color of government. I know there are structural problems that come from far behind, and another thing is that you've never done anything to stop them. I don't care that it was the Bipartite or now, but I'm telling you the report of the Tax Agency since you rule: if you had the average destruction of State agricultural employment, 35,744 jobs would be destroyed less. You beat the state record in destruction of agricultural employment, as well as in fishing. You've hit records, the first autonomous community in the destruction of agricultural employment throughout the Spanish state since you rule. Since you're talking to me about the Bipartite. Well, look, between Mr. Juárez, Mrs. Quintana, and so I see Mrs. Vázquez, they don't do a Suárez Canal, eh! He had to go to Edelmiro Lopez Churches to talk about someone who knows about land mobility. [[Laughter]] I haven't heard any referent from the People's Party about land mobility yet, because the data of their failure are very obvious. You're talking about the territorial base, and you're contradicting yourself, you're saying that the thoughts are necessary, you give us a lesson on the need for the thought. Of course, yes, but what Mr. Edelmiro López Iglesias says is that Galicia has a competitive disadvantage because it does not have its own land-based enough exploitation. You owe them to have had to do with you during the years of government. That's a subject for you. It's like you don't think there's an industrial project for milk. You can make the laws you want, but you had to come here to say why the land mobility law didn't work. I could say, because we didn't have enough staff in Agader, we didn't have enough staff in the Land Bank, we should put staff in the agricultural offices in a decentralized way so people can approach to make their lands available to the Land Bank, etc. You didn't say anything about that! In all the duties that were attributable to a government, such as land, industry and knowledge, you suspended. You also talked about renewables in rural areas, and how will you do with the real decree of self-consumption and the legislation and energy reform of the People's Party? How are you going to promote renewables, Counselor? And finally, too, talk about how he lived the worst years of the crisis, and that's why, no, no! It's just that in the years of the crisis rural in Galicia must have been an opportunity, it must have been an opportunity if you've done your homework. Many people approached the countryside to search for exits in times of crisis, and now they're going back to other sectors, because in the countryside they haven't found a place, and in the countryside they haven't found a place, and in the mountains they haven't found a place. It must have been on the contrary, a place to find work and opportunities for people. Look, and you're talking about diversifying, how they're going to diversify with the enormous disillusionment that you have. For example, with the brand "Horta Gaga" you received in 2008 a regulation made from a warranty mark for the Greek garden. Where's that brand, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u257	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u258	Where is he? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u259	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u260	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have not answered our questions, or my questions, which I have asked you, which were quite clear and simple, and I reiterate them. How do you intend to defend a strategy for the dairy sector? And don't talk to me about defending her, because we've come that far, and we agree. How, with what strategy?, the European strategy?, the French strategy?, the Spanish strategy?, creating one?, what? Tell me, because the obvious obviousness we have, that would be the height that defended the opposite. He didn't answer. More simply, will it constitute – as Mrs. Paz asked – a follow-up commission to this agreement in Galicia as she will ask for the platform within two days? Yes or no? Simple! Well, Mrs. Pacín, if you've been six years, for a year that's gone, I won't waste my time either. I'm sorry they've wasted their time, because it seems you didn't understand anything about what they told you the other day at the meeting, but if I've been trying you six years, I'm not going to lose for one now either. Let's go back to the previous one: there's a year left, Counsellor, and, therefore, a year for you or me... by the way, regular lessons, minimum lessons, because Galicia is very small and we all know each other. I met you in the opposition, went to Melide pines too, and that wasn't the top of the decoration, when you were in the opposition and when you were in the government. Therefore, lessons from which it was the culmination of the Melide decoration, the council of Melide, neither; that is, the normal and the usual. Counsellor, I clearly told you that you are the only field that has to play, because it matches you, because it is at the moment, when you play that debate. And indeed, there is a debate on all products, not only in milk – milk here is the most significant –; if we talk about wine, exactly the same. How many approved contracts have been signed in the last three years in Ribeiro's designation of origin? Do you know that, Counselor? Zero. What-what. The council issued a decree regulating the approved contracts for the entire designation of origin of Ribeiro. By the way, what will be the candidate of the People's Party now for the generals, the president who will be the candidate for the generals of the People's Party. For that president and the advisor who left made a decree for the approved contracts, which we will all agree on, and Mrs. Quintana here always said so, that it was what had to be done, and it was to favor the wine growers. How many are there? Zero, not one. How many public aids did these industries receive that would sign contracts approved with producers? Can I tell you the number? Millions, millionaires; contracts, zero. So you're going to invest and you're going to have an impact on that, yes or no, it's the only thing you can do and that's what I'm asking you. Because if not, I come to the conclusion that I was forwarding: you, at the bottom... and I repeat that I would also do so if I were a secretary of the People's Party organization; what happened was that I had to appoint her as advisor for the rally. And I think it's nice, because, seeing the panorama, you give them even a lot of myths above the average of their other fellows. But don't come to us with any more stories, because we can't hold on to them every day. And, above all -- I repeat, as I told you in your forebear -- respect for me I've already given you much discount, not on your part, but on the part of the Government, and I'm indifferent. But you imagine the livestock—such as wine growers, or wine growers, or cuniculators—that today morning they were in front of the council and today they heard some who for the first time appeared the new councillor in the middle of the countryside in Parliament. Maybe someone came in and looked. What did he tell them? What did he tell them? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of your problem, because milk worries you about milk and wants to know if there's really going to be a recovery in the price and what you're going to do; I'm not telling you to get it anymore, because – we're not wrong – it's not easy, I'm not the ones I say it's easy. And I won't even judge her if she can or won't, but for what she'll do. What I can't compromise is if you don't tell me what you're going to do or you won't do anything, as your predecessor did. Will you follow – I repeat – the strategy of hiding in the Madrid strategy? Does that count to you? Do you know what strategy Madrid is in? Do you know what strategy the Magram is in? What happens on the 20th, on December 20th, which is when the elections are. Therefore, the reports will not be drawn until after the elections. So the meetings won't talk until after the elections. Therefore, the decrees that had to be brought out to develop the agreement, which was where it was based, are without removing until the elections pass, Counsellor. That's the point. And you, before that, what are you going to do? It's what worries people out there, forget about us, that we at the bottom are the least. But people outside what they wanted to know from a Middle Rural Counsellor was that and what you plan to do with it. And what's the strategy you're going to...? Because you don't think you're going to Madrid and you're going to have to have a strategy and alliances with whom you're going to have them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u262	And that's what it would be like to know here today, Counselor, that's what it would be like to know here today. He was talking about the advance of the CAP. The advances of the CAP are already charged many months ago by most of the owners besides, man!, which in any case is the lack, that is to say. And, please, I explained it to you the other day at the commission, don't come to me with taxes, it's in rural, that's what the councillor of Fairy did. You know why? Because they don't know anything. I mean, to pass it on to Galicia's tax haven't got anything at all, because there was nothing on those roads. I told him the other day. Farms are priority holdings at 95% and they had 98% exemption. Passing from 98th 100% is ridiculous, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u263	Finish, please, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u264	So, don't you... I've told you: don't listen to Mr. Feijóo, who puts her in every terrible mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u265	Thank you, Mr. García. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Counsellor, as you see, we reiterate once again our support because, although Mrs Iglesias says the Government is not present, you have the support of the entire Government, of the parliamentary group to which it belongs, the majority group of the House, but above all a political group. [[Murmurs.]] You have a lot of responsibility, because expectations to continue with the political strategies previously defined are many. [[Applause]] The difficulty – as I said in my first intervention – far from the diagnosis of opposition groups, is not real to what we do. Yes, there are many difficulties, but you can't continue using demagoxia. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about specific issues such as the dairy sector, the Leader, which is the new framework where the groups are reduced, because we want from the parliamentary group and from the Government almost to disappear, that the partnership and social participation are diffused... Well, I think those issues haven't just been unbelievable, because reality – as we always say – is lying. Because you're referring to the fact that in the lady councillor's appearance, she didn't care about animal health. But, Your Honor, once again, seasonality is that which marks the times of opposition, because the nationalists, there in the spring, when they are in the middle of the sanitation campaign, then if they agree on initiatives to attack, to try to wear out the management of the council, because such important matters, right? like animal health, because they try to extract political performance. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, I didn't say we're smarter in rural areas or otherwise less trained than in urban areas. You came to give me the reason today, because you say that if there are services in rural areas, if we have schools in rural areas, but we don't talk today about children's schools, but in certain areas. But, Counsellor, today in rural areas – as you well know – there are children's schools, childhood care points, home support services for all our elders, day centres, important technological references, because, despite the fact that in the rural area where Mrs. Paz Franco lives, which usually tells us that in the Ourense metropolitan area, as in Lugo, Mrs. Franco; in the Lugo metropolitan area because there are interferences and the Internet is not very well, the wifi is not very well, but the mobiles... one thing compensates for the other. [[Murmurs.]] But do you remember when in the Bipartite there came funds from the Ministry with powers – I want to remember about 63 million – to affect new technologies and their deployment in rural areas? And then I think that disappearing so much programming, that yes, just like the monks who used fights and lots of advertising and promoting all those initiatives like "Stay in the countryside." Mrs. Paz, Mr. Sánchez, I believe that initiatives for the mobility of land as round and as concrete as the zero-tax program regarding the transmission of rustic farms and the growth and dimensioning of farms, I believe it is a determined bet. It's just that you shouldn't be embarrassed to admit something you might agree with. Because look, ladies and gentlemen, we are not sectarians, we are able to say that Professor Edelmiro López Iglesias is a reference in matter... Of course! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you know why you weren't saying that, Mrs. Pontón? –and you don't feel alluded, like your socialist companion, don't be as sensitive. Because when they rule they do something and when they're in opposition, they're against it. There is no such thing as consistency in the opposition. [[Protests.]] But we are able to study and apply all those issues that are beneficial to rural people, come from where they come from, yes, ma'am. [[Applause]] Because, as I said, in rural areas we have tourism. Of course I have to name Mr. Jorquera – I don't know if he will be sensitive too, but correct me, Mr. Jorquera, if I am wrong – when you said yesterday that the policies of the People's Party are the only thing they want is to fill the mountain of eucalyptus and the sea of aquaculture. Something like that said I think briefly and very concretely. And it seems to you that this is not demagogy, is it not simplistic? Oh, no, of course. [[Laughter]] Because it turns out that Mr. Sánchez is used to saying in his "perlite" initiatives such as: the forest crops of fast-growing species...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u268	...they don't generate wealth. So, in the communities of highland ordered in the Navy, they look, for example, where the benefits are evident, there is no wealth there, right, Mr. Sánchez? Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. And, Mrs. Churches and the Mixed Group, if you want, I really lend myself to show you the rural, that you, of course, thought it was a justification and an excuse, didn't I, for your speech? But if you tell me it comes from rural, I don't know, I don't know what rural you're from.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u270	...or what rural time you come from. [[Murmurs.]] But, Counsellor, you count on political support from a parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u271	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u272	...of a party and a government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u274	...and we have to tell the neighbors of Melide that they're going to miss her at best, because they probably have a new mayorate as good as you. [[Murmurs.]] But you have accepted some responsibilities and some...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u275	Finish it, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u276	...affections in rural areas that will directly affect the quality of daily life of all neighbors and neighbors. And, for our own good and for their own good, above all else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u278	...have a prudent and successful management in your immediate future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u279	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Close. Counsellor of the Middle Rural.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u280	Well, several things about what I just heard. Someone said that Suárez Canal, Quintana, Mrs. Quintana, I didn't even reach the Lord's hole myself... – no, it was Samuel Juárez, sorry, Samuel Juárez –, Mrs. Quintana, I didn't even reach Mr. Suárez Canal. And I hope they don't close 1,770 annual farms, I don't want to go that way to the lining of Mr. Suárez Canal, who also met him, eh!, in my time of mayorship when he went to the cooperatives of the area and said that rural had no future, and I say, rural has a future. [[Interruptions.]] And on that line, someone said I was also the stronghold against the mobilizations. I'll tell them: if you think you're going to see me just for a photo and make headlines driving a tractor and that means supporting the owners, I'll tell them: no, they're never going to see me driving a tractor, because I don't know how to do it, and I don't want that picture. [[Murmurs.]] What I want to do is work for the cattle, that's what I want to do. Regardless of all this, I'm telling you that the zero taxes you say are not panacea, I'm telling you that agricultural organizations are asking for this package of measures from different autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, sir, yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're asking for it, and besides, as reference we have Andalusia, and you look at it and you'll see that agricultural organizations are asking for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Having said that, to tell you that the situation is not easy, we are at a critical moment, at Galicia level, at the national level and at the world level. And I'll tell you, in addition, that the world's milk price is still falling and I'll also tell you that the Galician level is going to increase. And it's more, you also have to know that, although I wouldn't like it and I'm going to leave the skin, of course, while I'm here, so that this doesn't happen, every two and a half years, the livestock suffer, and they always suffer the fall of prices. And so there's no need to remind them of 2007 and 2009, when the price of the liter of milk dropped to 21 cents, it went from 46 to 25. And that's the reality. But regardless of this, in the face of this situation, the Government of Greece acquires a commitment, and it is a serious commitment to the sector, which has already materialized in concrete actions in the field of our competences. Various measures have been taken, such as support for producer organisations, promotion of milk consumption, monitoring compliance with the Law on measures to improve the functioning of the food chain, granting of credits to farmers and disseminating milk contracts, also disseminating information on costs and production margins, enhancing the role of interprofessional Inlac, boosting the school milk programme, strategic plan for the dairy industry, boosting cooperativeism – and in cooperativeism we believe, supporting it and so on –. The new and recent measures promoted by the Magram were patented by the injection of funds into the sector, which was materialized in EUR 45.5 million. And the CAP is not an acquired right, it depends on its negotiation. And if we follow some line that you were telling us, much would lose Galicia, if we continued the linear. I, from here on, what I would say – and I encourage the representatives of the greedy and all of you – is that you make constructive proposals. I'll be there to listen to them, to give them shape, to take note of your closeness, to work together and incorporate them into public policies for the sake of Greek milk, for the sake of the Galician gain. And they will be incorporated, in addition, through the Strategic Plan for Strengthening the Milk Sector, which we will present at the meeting of a part of the sector – which we remember is not the whole sector, which is the platform. As you well know, ladies and gentlemen, and although some say otherwise, we are not stopped. From our responsibility and competence, we are doing all that is in our hands to tackle a situation that, although it affects everyone in Spain, affects more of our yellow thugs. And it's not an exclusive situation in our country, but we'll do our best to increase the prices of milk. And to finish, because, even though milk is the main problem we have right now, there is actually more than milk, we face different situations and we have to deal with them. And to that end, I tell you the priorities of this advice: promoting the generational return on the Greek agribusiness by 2020, EUR 68.8 million; improving farms, EUR 166 million; supporting small farms, EUR 14.4 million; improving access to farms, EUR 57.4 million; supporting the agri-food industry, EUR 94.7 million; boosting the forest sector by investing in forest technologies, establishing and maintaining forest areas and investments to increase the environmental value of forest ecosystems; dynamising rural population through investment, creation and development of non-agrarian activities; maintaining the agricultural population in mountain areas, or other natural constraints. That's where we're going to work, these are the numbers and the arguments from this council. Thank you all very much, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u281	Thank you, Counselor. We turn to item 4 on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the socio-laboral situation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u282	No amendments were tabled to this motion. For the defense of it, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u283	Thank you, good afternoon to all and to all. I will defend this motion by defending each of the points of the resolution. The first says, " negotiate with the legal representation of workers and public workers the improvement of the precarious working and wage conditions imposed by the Administration." It refers to the fact that under Law 1/2012, together with the non-payment of the extraordinary payment of December 2012, other cuts were imposed that affected the economy and the quality of life of workers and public workers. Among other things, the reduction in unemployment benefit in cases of common illness or non-employment accident, the suspension of social action grants, the reduction in days of free movement, the increase in annual work hours or the amortization of jobs. I understand that in a year when Junta lowers tax collection, and also talks about economic recovery, it's time to give back to the workers and public workers all the rights that have been usurped. At the second point, "applying to Seaga's workers and workers' workers' V's Single Staff Convention, I don't think it has to be justified. I said this morning, I repeat it again, and I will bring it to this Parliament until this is changed. They're the only workers who don't have an application agreement and who work for this administration. It's a shame that the Galician Union is the example of the precariousness of work and the usurpation of workers' rights, with workers working without collective application agreement. But in addition, their contracts must also be extended to at least nine months. The third: "To call on employers and trade unions and urge them to set up a collective bargaining table in all sectors which have no collective application agreement." This is a situation that is mainly found in sectors related to new technologies and research and development. It is essential that the administration take the initiative, because these are sectors that are being born and very disorganized at work. So since the Galego Labour Relations Council, this collective negotiation should be led. But, in addition, the provincial sectoral conventions should also be unified into the German sectoral conventions. We have our country full of provincial conventions in Ourense, Lugo, Pontevedra, La Coruña, in various sectors where labour and wage conditions are totally different. So, what is needed, on the one hand, is to bring collective bargaining to Galicia so that it will be the Welsh and Welsh people, both employers and workers, those who mark the dynamics and conditions of collective bargaining, and not that an agreement is imposed, for example, from Madrid, because we should also promote the Welsh conventions of all those sectors that have no Greek agreement and have no provincial conventions, but that they are rejected by the state conventions, which are agreements of minimums and therefore condemn the working class to poverty. A striking, alarming and shameful thing for any German Government is, for example, that the conservation agreement is a state agreement, which is negotiated in Madrid, when the maximum producers are the Greeks. "Convoking" – also in point 4 – "the employer and the unions to promote an agreement on the recovery of Greek wages and to end the wage gap with the state". It is clear, and so they say the data of EPA and INE, that the job that is being generated in Galicia is of very low quality, that there are 70,000 employed and employed, workers on the other hand, with an annual gross salary of less than 5,000 euros, and that 20% of the workers and workers in Galicia on the other hand suffer from work poverty, and 92% of the people with the lowest wage have part-time contracts. According to the annual labour cost survey, the average annual gross wage in Galicia in 2014 was the third lowest in the state. I suppose the People's Party will be very proud that Galicia has the lowest third salary in the state, and it is worth €19,854.44, compared to the average of the state, which is €22,605. Galician is also in line at the cost of a worker. In Galicia it is 27.124 euros net a year, while the average state is 30.489, i.e. 3,500 euros more. It is necessary to co-operate with the state average to dignify working conditions in Galicia, attract investments and improve domestic consumption. Any economic recovery based on job insecurity and the impoverishment of the majority of society is called for failure, and can only lead to social conflict, emigration and diverging from the eurozone countries. In point 5, "to urge employers and trade unions to collect in collective bargaining and business agreements the recommendations collected in the Guide to Good Practices in the Field of Equality for Collective Negotiation, calling for measures to achieve equal pay and opportunities between men and women, and those relating to prevention and combating gender violence and labour harassment". A guide that is there and which is not implemented and which the Administration itself does not take into account. The wage gap between men and women in the state in 2014 was 24%, while Galicia reached 24.17%; that is, discrimination is greater in Galicia than in the rest of the state. Part-time recruitment and wage gap condemn women to live in poverty. The wage gap between men and women is unfair, unjustifiable and unacceptable. Its consequences are piled up throughout his professional life and it results in a more significant gap in pensions, which is 39% smaller than men's. The administration must act, because discrimination in wages and access to positions of responsibility that women suffer in their professional life is gender-based violence agreed upon by the Administration. Because, if not, you can't justify breaking a law with knowledge of the entire administration for years and never acting to put an end to this abuse. If we really want to move forward in gender equality and end gender-based violence, the Administration must actually recognize this equality by activating all necessary measures to end any discrimination or aggression against women. Sixth point: "To present to Parliament no later than three months a plan for the recovery of economic activity and the fixing of the population in rural areas". We have already talked about this in the middle of yesterday and today, but it is necessary that the rural recovery plan be linked to the implementation of productive sectors, to the implementation of industry linked to agricultural and forestry production, so that they attract above all the new population and we can recover children and children and the future for rural. And for that too, it is necessary to provide the rural necessary public services, health, education, social services. It's not worth checking babies or children's homes, the solution to the problem is not about electoral measures, but about creating the conditions that attract the population. In the 7 we are talking about presenting an employment plan for young people that goes beyond the classic measures of the current employment plan, which is based on the distribution of subsidies for firms for recruitment, or subsidies for microenterprise, which is already seen as not working, because most of these subsidies for microemployees give rise to entrepreneurship actions that do not even have six months of life, they die before. The solution is not these policies. The eighth point: "A plan for demographic dynamization that guarantees the universal and free right of all minors to comprehensive health, quality public education and to enjoy a dignified life." Because children and children must be considered a good and a responsibility of society as a whole. Point 9 is an employment plan for the long-term unemployed, which I am not going to enter because in this plenary we will talk about a non-law proposal presenting AGE on this particular subject. And to end, at the tenth point, "set a social wage for all unemployed people who no longer receive any public benefit and live in poverty depending on charity." They are workers and workers; therefore, they deserve such protection, because they have spent much of their lives working for this country to develop. And at the time of the crisis, the first thing the People's Party did was to give green light to a labour reform that strengthened the dismissal, which strengthened it by facilitating, on the one hand, the process of dismissal and, on the other hand, by lowering the rights of workers and workers while also cutting the rights to unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u285	Finished, President. I just want to say that in this wage that is required for these unpaid workers, workers should also be included who are active, who are employed separately and who receive wages under the minimum inter-professional wage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u287	Good afternoon. The Galician Nationalist Block will support this initiative presented by the Joint Group, to which we could add new paragraphs, make out nuances or even delete some of the issues, but we are in agreement with the set because what it does is to put the emphasis on and visualize the great problem that remains with our country, Galicia. And the lack of employment and the great deterioration of existing ones represent the most serious problem our country still has. We still have unabsorbed unemployment figures, and it's obvious that the problem is not solved with headlines. Yesterday, from the presence of the Councillor of Fairy in the debate on amendments to all budgets in this Parliament, because basically a headline has emerged, reflecting today the media, which is what will be convened, for example, up to 2,100 – is good for "up" – up to 2,100 public jobs. And then there's also the headline that you can't deny that there's an increase in unemployment. This is good as headlines, it is very good for this propaganda of the People's Party, of the Government of the Union, but, of course, it is quite surprising, that, after thousands of public jobs have been eliminated in Galicia since the People's Party's return to the Government of Greece, it is now announced that they are going to convene up to 2,100 jobs. There are thousands of jobs lost, drastic reduction of staff in teaching, health, in the U.S. Administration in general, cuts in staff costs, retirement rates, amortizations, retirements not covered, lay-offs, outsourcing... Public employment is low, with a loss of purchasing power by employees and tremendous public employees, theft of extra pay, theft of rights, precarious public employment... because the People's Party, in addition to approving infamous labour reforms that have led to the workers' rights, which have been brought forward wages, which have brought forward entitlements to benefit the employer, in addition to adopting these work conditions with the only objective of allowing greater income to the employer, because it turns out that it also acts like the worst employers in the area where they have responsibilities for government, and especially since the Galician Union, and also applying infamous working conditions, applying also greater income to employers, contracts for private hours that allow. It is clear from this point of view that it is necessary to implement measures such as those on the initiative for public employees. And I also said yesterday to the councilman of Fairy that we cannot deny, that we cannot continue to deny, that there is an increase in employment. Yeah, BNG denies there's an increase in employment in Galicia. And it is not that BNG denies it, that it is that it is denied the data. There may be fewer people enrolled in the jobs, but that doesn't mean you create jobs in our country. Galicia doesn't create a job. It turns out that at the beginning of the crisis in Galicia there were 1,193,000 people busy, and at this point there are almost 200,000 people less busy in Galicia. Clearly, in Galicia there is no more employment; that is, there are more than 16% loss of employment with the policies of the People's Party in the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u288	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u289	And the number of social security affiliates in Galicia has fallen by more than 14%; more than 150,000 social security contributors. I mean, Galicia doesn't converge, Galicia doesn't converge with the state and Galicia doesn't converge with the European Union. The propaganda, all right, but the data say that, in fact, Galicia at the employment level doesn't converge, it diverges in an alarming way. Diverge in wages – as the proposal of the initiative said – in pensions, that is, in all the items that can be analyzed. And about the people who work, what kind of work is created in Galicia? Precarious and worst-paid salary, or, if not, what can the Members and Members of the People's Party and the Government of Greece call to whom nearly 200,000 people –177,000 – receive in Galicia annual incomes that do not reach the 1,900 euros?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u291	I mean, 150 euros a month. Or what can we call people who compete, employed or unemployed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who are half the people who work in Galicia and earn less than 1,000 euros? And 31% of the workers and workers in Greece earn less than the minimum wage, less than 600 euros. That's the reality of the labour market that the People's Party is leaving in Galicia; that is, it doesn't create jobs, it destroys jobs, and the job that exists in Galicia is precarious and poorly paid. That is why we are going to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u292	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u293	Good afternoon, everyone. Alternative Left-Galga will support today's initiative of the Joint Group, although we would probably introduce some nuances, but at the bottom we are absolutely in agreement with the proposal, because the People's Party, which is a destructive machine of labour rights, said a truth when it approved its work reform. He literally said they were pursuing the radical transformation of old habits and work habits. What does the People's Party call to end old habits and customs? Well, it's just that it's good that people want to have a decent, quality and well-paid job. That's what the People's Party has achieved with its job reform. The People's Party, which is an expert in cutting rights, has achieved a precarious, cheap and dangerous labour market, because working in this country today is more difficult, cheaper, but also more dangerous. And we're going to give the data that they say very clearly, and they're not data from the Alternative Left Gaga, they're data from the Fairy, the Tax Agency. The tax report just came out of the state employees' payouts, and also from this country, and the data shows that fewer people work, less quality, less hours, and especially more dangerously, because it ended with their work rights. In 2009, the Farm contributed 798,875 workers, today it's 708,000; so you're destroying jobs; 90,000 jobs have destroyed only people hired on account of that since Feijó's government in Galicia. And those workers paid an average of 20,838 euros, and today only 20,000. Besides, a new fallacy: you've introduced yourself as those who reduced taxes, and it turns out that the average IRPF that paid the workers was 14.11%, and now it's 16.11%. What does that mean? That since you govern, there are not only 90,000 workers on an equal footing in Galicia, but they also pay much less, 1,000 euros less pay these workers in their entire working life. But not only that, but you also destroyed jobs, what they did was to share the job there was. The reports are clear, another report makes it very clear that 20 percent less than the hours worked before, so you don't create a job, you're what you're doing is sharing the few jobs you had. But, in addition, they did a job reform that ended the collective bargaining, which made them supposed to negotiate equally with equal workers and entrepreneurs. And it's impossible to negotiate equally when there's a worker's subordination relationship to his employer, and therefore you can't leave that as a liberal, what you have to do is protect the one who's unprotected, who's the worker. And this has meaning: that in Galicia today, 3 out of every 4 hours out of the working day, we don't charge ourselves; so we're giving businessmen work, because of the legislation of the People's Party. But another more serious question: when you get what the People's Party wanted, which is to press on the rights with the exercise of unemployed people out there, what you've done is you have to work at any price and under any condition. The PP said it was better to have a job of 50 euros a week than to have any; so they want slaves, they don't want workers. But the sinisterity data, when you work less than ever, are very serious. In this country, data from September to September, from September 2014 to September 2015, 25% of fatal accidents in Galicia have increased. I mean, today, when they work fewer workers than ever before, 25 percent more workers die at their jobs, because of these Leonine working conditions imposed by the People's Party. So what the People's Party achieved was what the capital wanted: to introduce fear into companies, to introduce fear through low wages and the pressure of unemployment, and so what they've already achieved is that workers work less, cover less and risk their lives by going to work. That is the great legacy that the People's Party has left us in the field of work. So we can only support an initiative that says that collective bargaining needs to be strengthened. There can't be allowed to be thousands of unrenewed agreements in this country, it can't be allowed to not see collective bargaining as a fundamental element in equity. A clear suggestion that the labour market should be reformed to give workers dignity, and to cover more, to cover more, can't be allowed to work for wages that don't even reach the EUR 1,000 or 600, as the partner has well explained. As time runs out, today or tomorrow we'll have a chance to continue talking about this with an AGE initiative. We are going to support the initiative, because we cannot of course allow a People's Party to jeopardize the lives of our workers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u294	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fajardo. The Socialist Group has the floor to Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. We will support this Joint Group initiative for many reasons. The main thing is that in six years of the People's Party we are left with an increase in unemployment of 51%, but in addition to that, the ratio between the unemployed population and the active population, i.e. the unemployment rate, has increased to 58.7%. In addition, the active population falls into 5 points and the number of unemployed is reduced by about 13% – 12.7% – 57,000 workers less. Galicia has a clearly worse result than the rest of the state, and this is the reality that the People's Party has left to the Greek people, this is the reality despite the applause of the People's Party, despite the intervention we had before by the Rural Media Advisor, despite the fact that the People's Party was unable to put on top of the table alternatives to a failed productive structure, although the People's Party, after making a remodelling of the Government, and about making an investment speech, was incapable of the budgets it presented to give it an alternative to this. I see that you have no greater interest in what we are talking about, because we are talking to Members and Members about poverty at work. Of course, the People's Party understands the employment – I, who are from Ourense – in a little particular way, in hotel rooms, placing the premiums of directors and managers of the CHOU or La Casa de la Juventud... Finally, this is how the People's Party understands employment. And it doesn't seem to arouse much interest, but what is a reality is that international reports say Spanish employees are already poor; and within state employees, the Greeks are poorer; and within that, the Greeks are even poorer. But this seems to be of no greater interest, and it should be the prime, especially because we are dedicated to politics, but basically because anyone of good this would be something that should occupy it. But neither does it occupy or worry, 222.092 stops and stops recorded in October, increase in relation to the previous month. And that celebration that the People's Party has made for jobs already by itself in its total precarious, but in EPA, corresponding to summer months, is somehow shameful, shameful. Because the precariousness of the labour market is increasing, as shown by the temporality rates, located around 93%. A situation that determines that the occupied population receives wages below the minimum. Data from the active population survey show that in the Galician community there are 70,000 workers on account of an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros, with a monthly salary of 351 euros gross. Twenty percent of the total workers in Greece suffer from work poverty – we don't talk about those in unemployment – 7 out of every 10 young people suffer from work poverty. And this is a reality that the Socialist Group does not say, this is a reality that does not describe the opposition, this is a reality that knows the people's Members and Members of the People's Party very well and knows the German Government. But the Greek Government is looking for infinitives: "continue", "continue"... We are in this quest for infinitive, which if we continue and continue as we have so far, we close Galicia, and it will be a natural reserve. Because in demography nobody does anything for demography. The Thursdays are leaving. The 50-year-olds, the 45-year-olds, the long-term unemployed – who, in fact, will talk about it tomorrow –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u296	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u297	...they have no future. But this seems to be a joke to the People's Party, and I think it can't be a joke, and you believe it. And what's more serious about this is that the People's Party knows these figures perfectly, because I told him the surveys, I told him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u298	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u299	...the international bodies, the state bodies, and tell you the reality of the government itself. But since we're in an investment speech and seeing what happens in April, and one seeing what's going to happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u300	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u301	And the People's Party is a permanent infinitive. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u302	People's Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mrs. Quintas, we conjugate very different verbal times; we conjugate the infinitive – "do," "concrete", " generate employment" – and you conjugate verbs in the past; that's true. I have to tell you that the truth is that you but I only coincided with one thing: we both enjoyed very much with Mr. Pachi Vázquez's tweets about Mr. Beaster. But beyond that, we did not agree at all at all, absolutely at all at all. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] His speech is the discourse of amnesia, it's the narcotizing speech that they want citizenship to forget what has happened during the Government of the Socialist Party since 2008... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u304	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u305	...because you know that this crisis is the daughter of the Socialist Party. You've left three million unemployed and that's why it bothers you so much that Spain now creates half a million jobs a year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With you, in fact, Spain was the country of Europe which most had been destroyed and with the People's Party Spain was the country of Europe which created the most jobs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego Lumba, that's a reality. And that's why citizenship, these days that you have to go to the polls and decide the future of Spain, you know what you're going to decide? That the pity that the Socialist Party deserves cannot be four years and one day, that you deserve a penalty and a punishment that must be at least eight years and a day. That's the reality. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u306	Mr. Gallego. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment, Mr Tellado. Mr. Gallego, here's a call to order, eh! I don't want to be the one who keeps raising her. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, well, Mr. Tellado, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u307	What bothers the opposition is that in Galicia 8 out of every 10 contracts are the full day. What they deny is that indefinite contracts represent 72% of the total contracts in our country. And that when you were in charge of unemployment in Galicia, the ratio of 51,000 unemployed per year grew, and that today unemployment lowers the ratio of 35,000 people per year; with you going up and down with us, that's the big difference. And that we've had three consecutive trimesters of annual growth of the occupied. The unemployment rate is low, the employment rate rises, that's the obvious reality in the EPA. Going to the initiative, because the truth is that in relation to the intervention of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, I will say nothing, the truth is, Mrs. Martínez, that your initiative is an aggressive reality, a black and white reality... – I am going to talk to the Mixed Group, who has introduced the initiative –...that nothing has to do with the scenario of economic recovery and job creation that we are living in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's picked up by EPA in the third quarter of 2015. The unemployment fell in the last year by 13.7%, today there are 35,500 unemployed less than a year ago and today there are 21,000 more busy than at the beginning of this year. These are certain data, which can be found in the last quarter's active population survey. You see everything wrong. We, of course, believe it's not all done, we think it's not all right. Of course there are many still unemployed, but, of course, reality is improving significantly. And we see the half-full glass, we don't insist on the empty half glass, because that empty glass was completely when the Socialist Party was ruling, and opposition groups, which now protest a lot, the truth is that they were shut in an accomplice way. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] In question with the initiative, he speaks in one of his points about public employees. You ask for more support from public servants, so do we. But what we have to tell you is that the budgets that you voted against yesterday raise 1% of the salaries of all public employees who depend on the Galician Union. Those budgets that you voted against and that you asked for your return are looking at an increase in chapter I, of staff expenditure, at 5%, curiously that 5% that the Socialist Party Government stole from all officials in our country. Those budgets you voted against... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u308	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u309	... are the budgets that allow the return of 50%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u310	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u311	...of extra payment of 2012. So that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] These are the budgets that allow the call of 2,100 new squares in the jobs of the service... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u312	Can you follow Mr. Tellado, Mr. Fajardo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u313	The truth is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u314	I'm sorry. Mr. Tellado, I haven't given you the floor yet. Wait, quiet. Go on. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u315	It is surprising the new role of the United Left, converted into a defender of the Socialist Party. Noraboa, I'm sure you're looking for that new approach strategy and now you'll see all those cutting policies that the Socialist Party applies. So yesterday you voted against public servants. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Youth employment plan. Mrs. Martínez, we have already set up a Youth Employment Plan with 100 million euros. Employment plan for long-term unemployed, which is already in progress. And the long-term unemployed fell in the last year in Galicia by 10%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u316	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u317	Demographic impulse plan. It's just that this government has already put in place a plan of demographic impulse and a plan of impulse and support for the rural environment, which you don't share. So you're talking about the social pay. I have to tell them that, with respect to Risk, we increased the risk from 22 million euros to 53 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u318	Finish, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u319	And that, therefore, lessons of social commitment, and especially of the Socialist Party's bench, the father and mother of this crisis, on our part, none. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u320	I just want you to let everyone talk. Because I guess they won't ask me that this bench can't talk. Point one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And secondly, in this intervention from the very first moment there was another group that talked about stealing and some of this bench didn't seem bad to them either. So there's no one here, neither one on either side nor one on the other, and it's clear. [[Murmurs.]] Good. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Martínez, from the scene, please. Mrs. Martínez, from the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u321	Well, president. I'm clear... to myself... please, please, I'm running out of time... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u322	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u323	...and you won't let me intervene. Well, the motion obviously could contain a lot more, but I tried to put in a motion many resolutions because I have very few opportunities to bring initiatives into this plenary and therefore I have to concentrate them. As far as intervention is concerned, I am grateful for the support of the groups. And as for the People's Party, Mr. Tellado, it's a lack of respect for the working class that starts the intervention by talking about Bester, the Socialist Party and anything but the working class and what's going on with the working class, which is outrageous. But besides, I mean to you about your intervention that you have no idea what social wages and risk pay and the difference between the two things, you have no idea; it's, of course, a social illiterate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u324	Mrs. Martínez... Mrs. Martínez... [[Protests.]] I told you that I would not tolerate any disqualification from any member of this House. Please take it off. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u325	Well, I'll take it back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I take it back, because I remove it doesn't mean it doesn't stop being. And besides, I think it's indecent... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u326	You have no word, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u327	...that nothing had been named on gender equality. He made no reference to women's rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u328	There's no time left, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u329	...and the men who charge the same for the same job and have the same rights of promotion at the jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u330	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u331	So it seems to me that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u332	Mrs. Martínez, you don't have time. It's over. Thank you very much. G.P. motion. on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the establishment of a parliamentary delegation to carry out work visits to various facilities related to the testing of military drones in Greek territory and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u333	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u334	To formulate the motion, Mr Vázquez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u335	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. If you remember your lordships, in the plea defended by AGE in the past full we began the introductory part by denouncing three issues from our very serious point of view. The first is the realization of the increase in international conflict and the parallel growth of NATO activity, denouncing the perverse role of arms multinationals in the defence policy of countries and denouncing the geostrategic battle for the control of natural resources in the Middle East. And let us see, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as are the times in which we have France, the neighbouring country, declaring the state of war and asking the Spanish State for help in their combat missions in Syria over the past two weeks. After two weeks, just two weeks of this interpellation and those statements, we know that arms companies, the main multinationals of armaments, earned €16 billion with that declaration of war from the French state. And we know that the President of the Spanish Government, Mr. Rajoy, is waiting for the election to pass to decide the military intervention in Syria by the hand of citizen Rivera. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Rajoy has learned little from Mr. Aznar and how when terrorism is used as a pretext for war the only thing that grows is terrorism, conflict and war. That's the result. Terrorism has to be an argument for peace, and never a pretext for war.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u336	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u337	Today we have a Russian fighter who was shot down by Turkey. The first collapse of a Russian plane by NATO since the cold war. And we've convened an emergency meeting of the Atlantic Alliance, nothing more and nothing less! That's what I meant, in case someone from the People's Bank doesn't understand what it means to increase war conflict in this context of dispute over the natural resources of the countries of the Middle East. We also have a massive disinformation campaign going on for these two weeks. They didn't say so in recent times in an interview with Rosa Maria Calaf, one of the last reporters, that we're filled in a fleeting society; a society where you report what it impacts, but not what matters. As spectators we see every day how the media dilute the barriers between information and entertainment. Media that, over and over again, repeat images that seek emotion and viscerality, and also sensationalism, instead of encouraging reflection, analysis and the origin of events. We have learned little – as I said – from our history, so I imagine that we must continue to admit that in Iraq there were weapons of mass destruction and that in Rozas drones are being tested for the distribution of pizzas. Rosa Maria Calaf (who I quoted earlier) said that the great evil of our civilization is that we do not ask ourselves questions. We asked questions, asked questions to the government. They never answered us. But not only have we asked him questions, we have shown the use of military drones, authorized by the Government of Galicia, on the Greek sky. We show the lies of this government. First of all, in connection with the development of the Atlas project, which began to fly a drone, the Atlante drone, by the Spanish Army. We gave testimony to the top leaders of the Atlante manufacturer, Airbus Defense, and also to the multinational MBDA missiles, who recognized this military character of the Atlante project. We have shown that the evidence that was carried out in Rozas by that elite unit, GROSA, of course, was carried out with a military purpose, of preparing for the integration of that elite unit, GROSA, into the maneuvers that took place in the Spanish State by NATO, and also for the integration of the systems of the Israeli-made drone Searcher, which was tested by this unit, GROSA, into the installations of the Rozas aerodrome itself. We also show that the companies involved in the manufacturing of drones in Galicia are mostly, almost exclusively, dedicated to the manufacture of Class 1 drones, therefore, less than 25 kilograms, of manual take-off or platform, never through more than one and a half kilometres of take-off and landing runways, and never, therefore, needed from the facilities in which the German Government is investing millions of euros. So we showed that the installations that were being done, carried out and implemented in the Rozas aerodrome did not respond to the needs of the drone industry in Galicia. We asked, and we also requested authorizations from the State Air Safety Agency for the conduct of drone tests and the NOTAM newsletters, necessary and required for any aeronautical test, and much more in the case of unmanned aircraft. We're still waiting for those authorizations and those NOTAM newsletters. The Government has repeatedly insisted not only on lying, but also on hiding information; information that is fundamental to ensuring the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks. The evidence that the GROSA group carried out with the Israeli-made military drone Searcher involved the displacement of these units throughout the Greek territory, even overflew the land of the Lugo coast, also overflew sea areas, and reached a distance of more than 150 kilometers, therefore implied the safety not only of the Town Hall of Lugo, but of the entire province. They have compromised, therefore, the safety of many citizens. But we insist, the Government maintains in that thesis, from our point of view, pathetic, of persisting in that lie. The Ministry of Defence is obviously using the Rozas aerodrome, it is clear that the Ministry of Defence has used military drones – no drones like the Ministry of Defence – and the Government of Greece is investing public resources, resources from the Greeks and the Greeks, making them available to the Ministry of Defence, something which in itself would deserve an explanation. We have come to this point by exhausting all parliamentary resources, from the AGE point of view, and for that reason we present this motion. A motion in which we want the Galician Parliament to promote the establishment of a parliamentary delegation to hold visits and work meetings with the people and places involved in the Rozas Airborne Research Centre, known as the ICAR. We want this parliamentary delegation to be plural, made up of two representatives from each of the groups represented in Parliament, also from the Parliamentary Group that supports the Government. We want that parliamentary delegation to be composed of two representatives of the Government, we want them to be present too. And may that parliamentary delegation also be accompanied by graphic media, by media people. And we want to visit the main places involved in conducting tests with military drones. First of all, the Conde de Cazorla base, of Leon's 1st Intelligence Regiment, to get to know his activities and listen to the explanations of his highest responsibility, Lieutenant Colonel Jesús del Barrio, so that he would realize there the kind of evidence they did in Rozas – as they themselves acknowledged –...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u338	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u339	...to realize what this elite unit is dedicated to, and what kind of evidence it carried out in Rozas. We want to visit the headquarters of INTA, the National Institute of Aeronautical Technology, dependent on the Ministry of Defence, with whom the Government of Greece has signed this agreement, to see what kind of activities it does there and to have General Ignacio Azqueta, director of the National Institute of Aeronautical Technology, explain to us this agreement and the evidence they carry out in Rozas. And we want to visit with that delegation Parliamentary the ICAR itself; that is, the installations of the Rozas aerodrome, the investments made by the Government of Galicia, and obviously, during the completion of the tests, that these are with a purely civil purpose, as this Government of Galicia still claims. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u340	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u341	Thank you, President. I think this is the third time we are talking in this Parliament about drones; it seems to be fashionable now. Even my little son now wants a drone for kings. Not only is he my son, the Industry Counsellor himself came to us the other day he wants to appear on this subject. I don't know if from now on Galicia's industrial policy, which is called Industry 4.0, is going to focus on this and it's going to be what drives Galicia. In any case, we expect these investments to be fruitful for Galicia. With regard to drones, these devices can be used for a multitude of things, also for things that we understand to be positive, such as forest monitoring, fisheries resources control, marine rescue, mapping, measurement of pilgrims' flows on Santiago Road, emergency and catastrophe performances. They are even being acquired by the German Government itself. So we understand that by definition drones are not bad, or much less, it's like everything, depending on how they are used. It is true that all the initiatives presented by the Gaga de Left Alternative Group support them. We support them because, listening to the statements – and I'm going to read them more or less textually – that they appeared in the press of the Industry Advisor, who said, "I wanted to convert the Rozas aerodrome into an innovation center of unmanned planes for civil and commercial use, and then put them on - and not so much military," yes that this seemed to generate some kind of doubt, and it was found that they had done tests in Rozas with the military. Therefore, we support these initiatives of the Gaga de Left Alternative. The reality is that it seems that the Greek Government will invest 45 million euros in the coming years, up to 2020. In these budgets you can check that there is an endowment for this. So I, as a Member of Lugo, believe it is good to invest in Lugo and invest in technology, on the contrary. In addition, it is a sector, according to several studies, that says it will reach up to EUR 65,000 million of investment, so it is a growing sector. It can also be seen that investments have been made by the State, if investments are being made, specifically 10 million; 5 through the Ministry of Industry and Competitiveness, and 5 million through INTA, which have been made to improve the construction of a hangar, to perform actions on the control tower and to acquire new media. So apart from the investments of both the Union and the State, there are also companies like Boeing or Airbus that are interested in this and are willing to invest. We must not forget that the Government of the Union says – I do not know how true it is, but we are going to give it credibility – that 50 direct jobs will be created; of course very qualified and that they will hardly go back to the area, but welcome them. Yes, the indirect ones. For example, now in the construction of the hangar it is involving people in the area. I'm saying that we support a number of initiatives, and here's what they're asking for are very specific things. In particular, it is called for a delegation from the Galician Parliament, where there are two Members of each group, and also two representatives of the German Government. I understand that by the German Government it is understood as such those who make up the Council of Unity. Two advisors will come, one from Industry and one from the other. Just like the representatives of the municipalities bordering on Rozas. I don't know how far these people – I look for myself – we have a qualification to see what is being done in this place where you intend to go. Specifically to the military base in León, to speak with a lieutenant colonel, or to the National Institute of Aeronautical Technology, which is in Madrid, to speak with other senior officials. I, of course – I tell you quite frankly, Mr Vázquez – believe that the parliamentary task of control this Parliament is not going to visit these centres, I say how I feel. I don't see him like that, you want me to tell him! I also do not understand how you ask in your second point, that, for example, it is the Government of Greece, who has to apply for the permits, authorizations, and have the resources necessary for us to go there. I repeat, I don't see this. That's why we make an amendment; an amendment that I think makes sense about what is being done there. First, let's know if there's a plan for the viability of these installations in the Rozas aerodrome. Second, if there's an investment plan for the projects you plan to do on the Rozas aerodrome. And finally, information on the technologies implemented, as well as the R & D+i programs developed in that aerodrome, and the possibilities of application arising from this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u342	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u343	I'm done, President. I think if the government answers this, we'll really know what's going on in the Rozas aerodrome. Of course, much better than making a visit – let's say tourist – between Members and advisors to see what is done in these facilities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u345	I've already said it in an earlier speech on this subject, and I repeat it now: the drone base of the Rozas aerodrome was born in mystery, and I think here is the mystery program of Iker Jiménez that I discovered, because of course, lords of the Socialist Party, I don't care what the president and the government tell us, because I don't believe it. I think the Government has to do a transparency job, and let the opposition carry out its control, going there where you want to check things you need to check, because if you don't just have the word of a government that minds us one day and another also; a government that violates your commitments one day and another too. That is why I think it is important for the opposition to have the right to check on the truths or lies that the Government transmits when it comes to this Parliament. The fact is that there are also statements – such as those quoted by the spokesman of the Socialist Party – that say "for civil use, not so much military." I mean, military use is contemplated, at least it's not denied. And before that, of course, he has to be suspicious, he has a lot to be suspicious, especially because it's not a minor matter. The Greeks and the Greeks have already said in 2001: not to war, not to war. We don't want to participate in wars. We don't want them to put us in wars. And you know that. And what I'm afraid is that maybe the war will start on December 20. That's the greatest danger! That's why I don't trust a government and a party that's already put us in a war, without wanting the Greeks and the Greeks or the people who live with us inside the Spanish state. Therefore, the Merger must be transparent. It's not good to walk in the dances of early bills of transparency and good government. Practice it! Do it! Practice transparency and practice good government. Be clear, tell the truth, because it's the only way that citizens can think about what the government does. You're lying, you promise thousands of jobs, and total, when the elections come, there's never been as much expectation of creating jobs as there is when there's an election campaign. The People's Party is able to offer more jobs than the rest of Europe together. You're lying. As they lie when they say it improves employment, it increases employment more than in the middle of the state. You're lying! You're lying! If we transfer it to full days, it's a lie. They lie so much that no one believes them anymore. It is therefore necessary, it is essential, that they vote in favour of this initiative as an example of this commitment to transparency and good government, because beyond presenting clear accounts and clear management, transparency must openly demonstrate the work done, the decisions taken and the results achieved. If that's not the case, I suppose and I suspect – and I suspect the mistrust of AGE – that with the drones and the ship of Rozas will happen the same as with Angrois, it will happen the same as with the Prestige, it will happen the same as with the banking of the savings boxes: the People's Party will deceive the population of Galicia. And, of course, I will support this initiative because I don't want the People's Party to deceive the people with my consent. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u347	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The Parliamentary Group of the Glaga de Left demands from this Parliament, by means of this motion, the power to form a parliamentary delegation in order to be able to carry out several work visits to various facilities related to evidence carried out with military drones in Greek territory. But once, Your Honor, we try to have clear and true information on such a delicate subject as this one of the drones for civil and military use, in a time when peace, of course for the BNG, should be what matters most to our future. But once the Parliamentary Group of the BNG will support the right to true and clear information, the right to transparency, because the BNG – we say many times – defends the principle of peace, the principle of anti-imperialism and solidarity in the international concert. That is why in the plenary session of September 29 I stated, from this very stage, that the BNGs do not want spy planes, these Searcher models of Israeli manufacture, military aircraft, those used by the Spanish State in Afghanistan and those that also use the State of Israel not precisely to sell peace in the world ahead. We understand that even these targets can be considered terrorist targets, so we don't want spy military planes in Rozas. Today we will support this motion which – I say – calls for information and clarity on the particular, because we do not want any more deception, nor do we want Mr Rajoy – that of the plastic threads – or Mr Feijóo – of the drones of civil use that do not know what they are like. Because we don't want to be mistaken, the BNG has already presented several initiatives at the Congress of Deputies claiming clarity and true information about these spy aircraft issues at the Rozas airport, because we are also concerned that the BNG can use public properties to test spy planes by private companies that bring benefits. And we also understand that there is a concern about the information that appears in the press, that they even spoke and spoke over the last few years of the possibility of placing in Rozas the European base of unmanned Pentagon planes; information that they talked about that drones could pose a problem for neighbors and neighbors; and even information on the 18th of September that they literally said: "a military drone flies for the first time in Spain from Rozas." "A reconnaissance aircraft, such as those used in Afghanistan, which has a built-in Israeli manufacturing camera, large in size and capable of keeping up to 10 hours in the air." In short, by 2011, ladies and gentlemen, they announced to Rozas a program for research and project development. In November 2014 it was mentioned the creation of an airborne research centre for exclusively civilian use, which would bring together an aerial research platform, specially designed for civil use. We talked about a lot of things, the president himself said, "Reds will be the center for the development and testing of technologies on unmanned civil-use aircraft." BNG, of course, has always defended the promotion of technological development, aeronautical research, the creation of production centres, job creation, knowledge generation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u348	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u349	...—end, President—because we understand that it is positive, and we also defend the creation of an industrial pole, but also clear, true and true information. Because we understand that in times that are ours to live, of course, as it is popularly said, the oven is not for cake. Because we live in times when peace is the most important thing for our future, we are going to vote on this motion affirmatively. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u350	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u351	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Pombo, you defend and you don't know what you want, because you don't want drones, but you want an industrial pole. It was worth what Pepe Blanco promised them years ago, and Mr. Touriño when he was part of the government, but he promised a lot of things and he didn't do anything, that's the subject. Look, there was a clear exhibition, and a clear presentation of this project. I don't remember whether you were there or not, but all the Members were invited. Some of the honourable Members who now aspired to the congressman, yes, he was there, and they were told what was going on. So what he didn't want to know was because he didn't want it. But look, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said, it must be the third or fourth time we bring to this Parliament the issue of the drones of Rozas. And the first thing you brought was that you were in doubt, and so you are gathered at the initiative presented by the same person who defended you here, I don't know whether you're a spokesman or not, or what group you are, of AGE; of United Left, you don't know who you are, you'll have to ask Mr. Beers to see where the publication belongs and give you the agreement that was signed on your day between the Board and INTA, and we told you that the best knowledge was the publication in the Official State Gazette, and so that's it, that's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But of course, you'd doubt that. Here's all about questioning everything, everything. A project that is an opportunity for Galicia, and especially Lugo, and there are people who seem to care about Lugo having a chance. That's what you seem to be worried about, that Lugo has a chance. Yes, we, from Lugo, will fight for Lugo to have a chance, and that opportunity can represent Rozas, indeed, yes. Why? Because it's funny, a month ago – they relax man!, calm, that nothing happens – two initiatives were presented in this Parliament, in the debate of the state of autonomy, by AGE, number 6 and number 7, motions for resolutions. In number 6 exactly, increased investment in R+D+i was requested for civil character. This is civil investment in R & D+i, clearly says the fifth clause of the signed agreement, and is also co-financed or financed by Feder funds, and you know precisely that Feder funds are exclusively for civil use, cannot go to other types of uses. They know perfectly well! Therefore, manipulations remain. This was proposal number 6. But in proposal number seven, just the following, what you asked for was the development of a new F110 frigate model. Do you know what model 110 frigates are? I don't have to explain it, because here we have Yes, combat boats, they're warships, I know I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u352	Mrs. Díaz, please don't talk. Please, Mr. Castineira, not dialogue. Mrs. Díaz! Then explain it to him when he leaves, now he doesn't have the word. [[Mrs. Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Díaz, please explain everything to you when you leave the Chamber. Now you have the word Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u353	I would like to thank you very much for your explanation, Madam Aspirant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u354	Mr. Castineira, don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u355	If you let me talk... at Congress, if you get there, you won't let him do that. I assure you!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u356	Mr. Castineira, don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u357	Look, frigate F110 is a warship, and they didn't ask for one or two, five, five! That's right, Mr. Vázquez, for Ferrol yes, for Lugo no. Well, look, from this parliamentary bench, we say, Ferrol yes, but for Lugo too. For Lugo too, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u358	Mrs. Díaz, I'll call you in order. [[Applause]] He's got a call now. Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u359	You don't seem to like it, Mrs. Díaz, but look, ask Mr. Beiras, see if he likes it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u360	Mrs. Díaz, second call to order, and you know what the third one means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u361	Maybe that's what he wants, because he doesn't have to share with his neighbor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u362	Mr. Castineira, please focus on your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u363	I'll sit down, Madam President. Maybe some people are looking for that target. Look, our proposal is next, Mr Vázquez. I'm telling you that we, because we have nothing to hide, not much less. Transparency is the maximum there has been in this project and it will continue to be. To find out what's going on in Rozas, you'll have to go to Rozas, and you don't need to go to Madrid, no less, to come and tell us in Rozas. And that proposal is to be managed through our colleagues and representatives in the Commission 6th, through the Commission 6th table. A visit from all those parliamentarians who want to go to Rozas to explain exactly the entire project being done in Rozas. There's nothing to hide. Total and absolute transparency. Total and absolute transparency, that's what there is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u364	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u365	Now, go to Madrid to ask what's going on in Rozas... I don't know. Unless it's a tourist trip, I don't think it's the most interesting thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. Motion author group. Mr Vázquez has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please! Quiet. Mr. Vázquez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u367	Mr. Castineira literally equates the construction of military ships in Ferrol with what is being done in Rozas, with which, again, it is a more than explicit recognition. By accusing us of a contradiction, what you really recognize is your lie, right? Otherwise, we would have no contradiction if they did different things. I've already explained it to you in the statement of the interpellation that makes up that motion. We understand that a country that is sovereign, that doesn't work in the service of the arms multinationals, nor does it have the service of NATO, because it has an army at the service of the rights of citizenship and a people who want to be free. We don't have any kind of complex to recognize. Nothing has to do with the spirit of this initiative. What we don't defend is that a government, the Greek, put money and public resources at the service of multinationals. We do not agree that existing facilities in our territory are put in the service of NATO. We don't agree that you lie to citizenship and hide information from it, because citizenship is older, you have the right to know and know the truth. And we demand – and therefore we present these initiatives – that we be given the certifications and the authorizations required to carry out tests with non-experimental aircraft. That's what we asked for. So it's clear. With regard to the spokesman of the Socialist Group, because to express my surprise and perplexity, right, first, because his arguments are seriously incongruent with the arguments defended by that same group in this House and in committee. Secondly, because the elected Members, if we are not prepared, have to look for ways to get it to make a visit to any type of facility that certainly affects the rights of citizens in Galicia. And you say, well, it gives you some credit, it gives you the feeling that it gives the German Government some credit, of course, more than this group. We believe that the German Government does not deserve that credit, but all the discredit. And it also says the spokesman of the Socialist Group that it doesn't seem right to make tourist visits. To kick the country and go wherever we have to go to defend the rights of the Greeks doesn't seem to us to be tourist visits; it's good in the offices, but we have to get out of them. It's not a tourist visit to the INTA headquarters, with whom the German Government has signed an agreement, so that we can be explained what is being done there. It's not a tourist visit to visit the Rozas aerodrome, and it's surprising that the Popular Group says it's going to bring an initiative for that when that's what we propose too in this; I don't understand. And it's not a tourist visit, of course, to recognize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u368	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u369	...and talk to the head of the military unit who tests in Rozas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u370	Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u371	We, of course, believe that this is our function as public representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u372	Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u373	...and that's how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u374	The amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u375	With regard to the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u376	It's just that it can't be when the time runs out for the amendment. This shift is to talk about amendments, first of all. Yes or no? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u377	Well, I'll do it, if I may, in a second. We are not going to take it, we would take it as an initiative presented by the Socialist Group, but it has nothing to do with us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u378	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management of public health in the province of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u379	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u380	To formulate the motion, Mrs Acuña do Campo, of the Socialist Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u381	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. In the last plenary session, we asked the Health Counsellor about the situation of health care, in a context of medical strike and hospital complex doctors, and in a context of social shock. Yes, of social shock, because it was just known that the heir to the MP changed sexual favors to jobs of the provincial institution itself, by the way, with the favor and condescendence of Mr Feijóo and the entire People's Party, including the ladies. Well, I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it was all a success, because it served for the Power to finally assume the demands of the professionals and so it could end a strike that was planned to last the entire month of November. But that inquiry also served to confirm that the counselor knows nothing about the health of the Uransian, nor the adviser who has just arrived or his team, who was already there, for it is only explained that in this House he had told so many lies or so many inaccuracies, numbers and data clearly manipulated, which I suppose were the ones that happened to the manager, Mrs. Núñez. And who knows what the reality of gold health is, who knows it perfectly, is the press of our province, who published this photo today. In the interrogation we made it very clear that we had two problems: on the one hand, the cuts of the People's Party, and on the other hand the mismanagement of Mrs.Núñez – the "first" as they call her affectionately. The cuts of the People's Party are causing the emergency service of the hospital complex to collapse one day and the other as well. And Mrs. Núñez's mismanagement gives this solution to this collapse: stores where to hide patients while waiting for days and days to be cared for in the emergency service. I suppose, gentlemen, that this is health 4.0, i.e. hospital 2050, the Innova Plan: jersey-cortina, jersey-cortina, jersey-cortina. I mean, this warehouse – I insist on the idea – only exists to hide the patients, because there are no material resources here or, of course, humans to be able to handle them. That same manager, that same Mrs. Núñez, who, of course, has lost all credibility in gold health and, therefore, cannot be the interlocutor to negotiate with the strike tracking committee, as we certainly request at the first point of our motion. A motion in which, in addition, we continue to claim data, true and real data, and not those manipulated numbers that Mr. Counsellor told us. The number of squares left vacant after massive and forced retirements. How many were left vacant? How many were covered? How did they cover up? And besides, both in primary and hospital. And, in addition, information and, if possible, documentation on the Chou Master Plan and on these European funds. I wonder, what's the reason the People's Party has to be hiding that data, especially when it comes to a group that just introduced a law of transparency in this House. Something must be hidden. Besides, it seems that in Ourense they committed themselves to the strike committee to hire more than thirty doctors and doctors for Chou, and also with stable contracts. We'll see what Mrs. Núñez understands for stable contracts. So you will have to vote in favour of the third and fifth point of our motion, where we are asking for that. And especially for basic services, for fundamental services, and very punished as is the internal medicine service and the emergency service. And I trust that stability solves today's problem with fraudulent contracts that are also made in Ourense – I have to say that not only in Ourense, but also in Ourense – these contracts by which the Labour Inspectorate there, from Ourense, takes out of his ears the Public Health Administration asking him to pay for the common box of Social Security, that if – it's a shame that Mr. Tellado is not, man! – he has emptied the People's Party, because he pays the common box of Social Security those days that he owes. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the contracts from Monday to Friday, which are abolished on Saturday and Sunday to resume on Monday – I insist – are fraudulent not only for the worker, but also for all citizenship. They have to end these contracts for hours, contracts in which, instead of a full shift, the professional is hired for a couple of hours, even if the professional lives in Ourense and has to go 100 kilometers to cover those two hours. You have to end these one-day contracts that go through three or four services, because that's neither quality nor safety, it doesn't give quality or safety to health care, because a professional can't understand at all, gentlemen. We also ask in our motion to provide the Ourense hospital with these specialties most necessary for a province as old as ours: hierarchy, psychogeria. Let's get the socio-sanitary beds back. By the way, he's also been in the negotiation with the strike committee, to see how they comply with his word and open the hospital beds of the fourth floor of the Materno, the third left of the Mother and all those supplements they've committed. We have also perfectly identified what the problem is, which is causing the deterioration of health in the region of Tuvalu. So we ask you, through this motion, to return autonomy to Valdeorras, that health area that made our health much better. Because we can't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that Valdeorras is 100 kilometers away from the reference hospital and almost an hour and a half away. And, of course, we also ask that the comarcas be empowered, both the Verín hospital, which will be the only way to make sense of these cross-border health-care commitments, such as that of the boat, which – I insist – plays a key role in the southern province. And speaking of recovering, I think they should boost the activity of pediatric surgery at the Orensan hospital itself. I ask them to listen to their parents and mothers, to ask how they are living these transfers. Besides, it seems that with the strike committee you negotiated that from January 10th, the security guard located for interventional radiology will be implanted. Well, let's listen to the experts and get the hemodynamics room running for 24 hours, because it seems that's what they're all advising. And in this proposal, of course, we cannot forget the great harm done by the government's health management Feijóo: primary care and mental health. If we want a public health system to work well and be sustainable, we have to boost primary care, we have to boost primary care. And it turns out that Ourense's manager did everything the opposite. I was saying the other day that, by our accounts or, better said, by the accounts of the medical union, you've already cancelled more than 19 primary coupons across the province. They have to equip them with infrastructure, they have to provide them with material resources and of course human resources. As for mental health, because it doesn't come up with psychiatric vacuum, because it's obsolete, as you did with Toén, but it's also necessary to find solutions to deal with all these...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u382	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u383	...chronic patients, not forgetting that such an aged province should have a proper primary care physiotherapy network, something that had also launched the Bipartite and also disappeared when Feijó arrived. I remind you that the law of worthy death - called colloquially - is already in force; therefore we demand a network of proper palliative care for our province. And I'm done, president, talking about pharmacies. Ladies and gentlemen, rural pharmacies are that they can't go on, they can't even send drugs, drugs, because they don't have them, and they don't have them because they can't pay them. That's why the Government needs to make a support plan for rural pharmacies to rural citizenship. We, who are from rural, like the advisor, because we also need that service. We hope to count on the support of the other groups to try to improve a little and to meet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u384	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u385	...the health needs of our province. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u386	Thank you. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u387	Thank you, President. Well, this motion is very interesting, because it would generally be about the health situation in Ourense province, but obviously it's very little five minutes, so, by supporting this initiative, we're going to vote for it and I'm going to explain the reasons and the amendment put forward. Indeed, we have – worth redundancy – a problem of troops. The People's Party has been eliminating health professionals. Ourense, of course, is not alien, in such a way that attention is greatly hampered in some health services, such as hospital emergencies. But, in addition to that unilateral decision to delete that unit of income support created in 2011 without replacing this service, because the fact is that I have undergone a cut for the emergency service itself and a medical professional has thus been removed. Ourense does not have – as is said here already – of geriatrics, when he has an aging population. The number of interns is lower than the rest of the centers, and of course this leaves it in a difficulty to address because the high number of cases of older people, and the emergency staff the truth is that it is also insufficient, since it has precisely motivated this strike by professionals and medical professionals. The collapses are being more than usual, and before this, screen measures or curtain measures, as they are precisely with that photograph that Mrs Acuña taught, these enlargements, supposedly, or those reforms in the emergencies that do not solve absolutely anything – we saw it already in the CHUAC emergencies – i.e. changes in the structure, changes in the organization that are not accompanied by professional increments; i.e. changes in the structure, higher workload and the same professionals and the same professions to perform the same work, and therefore it is impossible to solve any subject, no collapse, in this case of emergencies, but, in addition, the problem is growing. And instead of holding your hand to the dialogue, the address applies that knee to the workers and the workers. In the absence of services, the council responds with more closure of services, with depreciation of squares, yes, with traveling hospital trucks. In July 2015, this group reported precisely that expenditure of 1.8 million euros on the purchase of walking trucks, and we said it was an insult to public health to spend 1.8 million euros on something that is not necessary, while parallelly what they are doing is amortizing squares, that is, increasingly reducing the possibilities of our primary care, also eliminating emergency personnel and hospital personnel. And in the meantime, the People's Party also gave that management of the Indonesian hospital to Ferrovial.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u388	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u389	We denounced this issue of the hospital trucks walking in July, and in September Sergas confirmed us in commission that they are being used because for that health walk, not to mention even a protocol before the appearance of a minimum urgency in those trucks, without their own personnel and besides because like a sort of chiringuit that stands next to the hospital or that will be arranged next to the hospital, while they close beds, right? what happened again this summer. And in the meantime, you continue privatizing. I was commenting on it now. This group denounced privatization in 2014, we reported entry in 2013 when they drew this first contest, which remained desert, to privatize the management of the spaces of Ourense hospitals themselves, and that contest that was empty, and clearly showed a failure in the health management of the People's Party. And instead of disclosing it from the contract that was made for that extension of the hospital, they pulled it out again that it almost seemed that ad hoc for the company Ferrovial, because that Ferrovial to which Ferrovial was also granted the hospital of Ferrol, what a chance! when that Mr. Alfonso Clemente, former manager of the hospital of Ourense and medical director of Ferrol, also worked precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u390	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u391	...in Sergas with that counselor Cochón, and what a coincidence! when that gentleman now works for one of the subsidiaries of Ferrovial, Cespa, because he is helped by these contracts. The truth is, it's always the story. So in this amendment we asked, on the one hand, to study the recovery of privatized and delivered services to Ferrovial, and, on the other hand, we also asked that family guidance centres be divided and given, because it seems to be missing within those points which included the non-law proposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u392	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u393	This is Ourense's health. Unfortunately, she is not too close to the situation of the rest of Galician public health, and I understand that, as the only deputy left to the People's Party, we will see that they vote on this initiative. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u394	Thank you very much. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u395	Good night. Thank you, President. This motion which today presents the PSdEG-PSOE, composed of thirteen points, will count on our support as a whole. The lack of human and material resources that suffer from public health in Galicia in general, and in Ourense in particular, and the regrettable state in which this public service is found, as a result of the cuts and privatizations carried out by these governments, corroborate and make necessary the thirteen demands raised in this motion that we are debating. I will try to sum up the consequences of the measures imposed by the Union since the People's Party governs, depending on the interests of the private company, allowing it to work at the cost of public budgets. The public health policies of the People's Party Government are decapitalizing public health. First, the health budget cut in Galicia between 2009 and 2014 was 12.3%, which means a total loss of 460 million euros. The disappearance of 2094 health jobs and the closure of some 275 hospital beds, and while 48.8% of the health budget went to the private sector, only 7.1 was devoted to public investment and operation. Secondly, the granting of multinationals and investment funds for the strategic planning and management services of the Health Council or Sergas: clinical history, electronic revenue, Sergas telecommunications, system logistics, maintenance of health equipment, cleaning, energy, catering service, acquisition of technological equipment, radiological protection services, instrument sterilization, oxygen therapy, ambulance services, hemodialysis, Galician Oncology Centre, research, development and innovation, training. I don't know if I've forgotten something, because it's so many things, I probably forget something. In addition, the current Government of the People's Party facilitates public health to finance research by the private technology industry and the laboratories of multinationals, allowing these to be the ones that decide the equipment to be purchased by the public system. They also privatized the Central Laboratory of Galicia and the management plans of Lugo and Ourense hospitals. And primary care suffered a cut of EUR 190.9 million, including extrahospital pharmaceutical spending. And they are dismantling the sanitary areas, in order to create a unique area for the entire territory of Galicia, to create a health market in which the private sector can participate and be the pretext for cutting down comarcas hospitals, such as the Valdeorras Barco. In case all of this was little, surgical waiting lists passed, in four years, from 71 to 83 days. There are reasons to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u396	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u397	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again. There are so many and so dramatic problems affecting public health in Galicia that, despite much debate on health in this plenary, it is true that on very few occasions one can do about the uniqueities of how this situation affects health in Ourense, and indeed – someone has said earlier – neither the ten minutes of the initiative's author nor the five of us at rest are enough to address the multiple and varied problems. So I'm going to try to sum up what is the current state of health after six years of the People's Party's government, and how much of the cuts they've been applying, that on many occasions the People's Party has justified as conjuncturals, they've ended up becoming permanent, and I think that despite the agreements reached by Mrs. Núñez with the strike committee, I don't know or I'm skeptical about that most of them are going to be able to solve. We have an emergency service in Ourense that not only in the winter, in the peaks of the flu, but also in the summer, also in the spring, practically at any time of the year, suffers insurmountable collapses and that sometimes makes you see improper images of a civilized society. Recently 40 professionals, 40 emergency doctors, signed a letter complaining about what has already been reported here. First, that the income support unit is suppressed, that spaces are enabled to hide the sick who are waiting to be cared for and to be helped by a bed, but that does not increase the provision of means. We have a province where we don't have pediatric surgery in practice, and that even has motivated actions by the People's Valedor. We've had cuts in time, we've had cuts in internal medicine, we've got a situation in internal medicine that's absolutely impossible. Another feature of the balance sheet is that today we have 73 hospital beds less than we had when this legislation began. You shut down Piñor's hospital to transfer the people who were in the psychiatric hospital, without that assuming a substantial improvement, except that it refers exclusively to the care facilities that the people who are in the psychiatry unit, or of course to the rest of the benefits, because it now maintains an empty and closed plant. That led to the elimination of a pioneer service that worked very well in Ourense, which was the one to care for palliative sick people, that now there are no palliatives in Ourense and before there was a service more than enviable. This is about the care – let's say – hospital in Ourense. In fact, another of the first decisions you made was to carry the health areas, with the consequences that this has for the comarcas hospitals. I don't have time to report all the deficiencies and cuts in Valdeorras comarcal hospital, but I think it's much more graphic if I say that at this stage the Valdeorras comarcal hospital is closer to being a large continuous point of attention than a hospital, by means of means, by staffing staff and by technological means. For the first time there is a waiting list in primary care. Professionals have been cut off in primary care, not only medical staff, but nursing staff as well. Here the patients are already shaking: as soon as we see that the doctor is going to apply for a transfer contest or retire, we already know that we are possibly going to be without that assistance. And indeed, the latest fashion of the People's Party – and above all that they try to sell us that is to guarantee better equality to the people we live in in the rural environment – is to provide us with health care in trucks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u398	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u399	At this stage, to ensure the equality of children and children in rural areas in schools, they will give them meals in bread. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u400	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Mr. Santalices Viera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u401	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I also urge myself to make a brief summary of what was the six, six and a half years, of the People's Party's Government in Ourense. Integrated management implemented. This debate is over. It's over. Integrated management has benefited from this since then, because it is a process management; it has benefited from the Barco hospital; it has benefited from the Verín hospital. Now fortunately no interventions are suspended because of the lack of anesthetists; rather, it was rather, before that was frightening, frightening. [[Murmurs.]] Look, no, no, I'm not interrupting. The reality of hospital reform now is to go there and see it, before it was absolute promises, and I don't want to go into the past, but the 140 million never arrived, eh! There was going to be a big job in the hospital, but now we can check it out. Health centers. There will be few or many, but at the previous time none were built and now the one of the U.S., the one of Toén, the one of the Entrio, the one of the Vilar de Santos, the one of the Vilamarín, the one of the Peroxa, and finally the one of the Couto, the one of Barbados and the one of Pontedeva. Home!, it's advanced in the technological equipment too, and you, who is from the boat, should know. The so-called TAC is finally installed and functioning; a TAC, by the way, of the last generation. The hospital's work has cost a lot, a lot, and you're well opposed; it's been through European funds, through the Ministry of Innovation, and up to the end it's already built or spent 45.65% of the budget, almost 20 million euros. I believe that the works advance at a good pace and that is expected to end in the time it was scheduled, in 2016. So, I think in this sense it will allow – and I said this many times here and Mrs. Churches, who is now not, knows it well – that we end up with the bad rooms we have in Ourense, I always said it, with the three-bed rooms; that's not sustainable. Therefore, this master plan will indeed allow us to have double rooms and, of course, not sharing three-bed rooms with one toilet. So this improves a lot. Mrs. Acuña, let us know here that it was thanks to your plea that the agreement reached in the hospital the other day is fine. I think that was exactly the case. I believe that, thanks to the interpellation that presented here the PSOE, it was the agreement. They all agreed, those on strike and direction, to reach it and put it into operation. Of course, that's why I'm going to congratulate her, and I'm not going to do anything but get to Ourense and thank the Socialist Party for doing all that. Anyway, the truth – and I'm glad that I recognized you here – is that there will be 31 interiors, that the medical wardens will be reorganized, because it was necessary, and the hospital needs to be covered, and the hospital Santa Maria Nai needs to be covered, and this is going to be done. There will be a new emergency surgery, and there will be no scheduled surgery. Interventional radiology. This must be valued in its fair measure. That a guard implants in Ourense is very important, because in Ourense there is a lot of pathology proper to older people, such as strokes, and this will benefit, and much. We'll talk about that in the long run. So he took a very important step. Hemodynamic function 24 hours. Magnificent! Look what I asked for, uh, but you put it in eight; you put it in eight. But, now, be careful!, yes, now comes Regaliam, which is what is going to put – which is what was asked here, but you were not in agreement – the single Myocardial Infarction Mortality Record for those who exceed 120 minutes. [[Murmurs.]] That is the fundamental data to be assessed to see if it is necessary to implant 24 hours in Ourense and Lugo, Ourense and Lugo! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We did take that step. And, Mrs. Peace, tell Mrs. Acuña – because I don't have a pedagogy to explain it – the problem of pediatric surgery. You know this, you and I talk about it, you know what the question is. I won't waste time explaining it here. Fortunately, the pediatric surgery today has been resolved. Do you know how many kids moved to Vigo last year – and they're still moving? Seven, seven! But if, when we talk about pediatric surgery, we talk about ownership...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u402	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u403	...and we don't say things that go far away from the debate we should have here. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Acuña do Campo has the floor for the parliamentary group responsible for the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u405	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the groups for their support, and to announce that we are going to accept the amendment proposed by Alternative Galga de Left, adding those two points, the 14, which I would say would dimension the plans of the province's FOCs and equip them with sufficient means, and one more point, the 15, where we deal with a text of what would result: "to study the recovery of all privatized services." As for Mr. Santalices, I want to tell you that we are going to ask for a point vote, because so Mr. Santalices, such a lover of "orenzy", because he will not be sorry to support Ourense's health, either entirely or partially. Look, Mr. Santalices, less ores and more Ourenses. If there's no health, there'll be no oranges, no Ourenses, no orensans. [[Applause]] Look, you don't get to know the counselor of the situation that has the gold health, that just arrived, because we can understand it or excuse it, but you don't find yourself, who's been in this for a lifetime, because it's already harder. Look, you guys solve integrated management, you solve pediatric surgery, you solve Toén's problem. It's going to be that for the People's Solving Party it's synonymous with smashing. No, what they did was destroy the boat's health area, smashed the pediatric surgery, destroyed Toén, and they're completely destroying all of the gold health. The boat's TAC. May you pull out your chest by the TAC of the boat has, directly, noses; noses!, Mr. Santalices. He's been engaged in 2009, and we're in 2015. And do you know why you've been waiting for Valdeorras' entire citizenship for TAC for so many years? Because the priority was not to solve the problem with Valdeorras' citizenship, it wasn't the TAC, no, it was to privatize Valdeorras's TAC, even if it was a management disaster, because you spent a lot more money on repairing the obsolete TAC that we had to buy that new one. Look, Mr. Santalices, I don't know what else to tell you. I hope you vote in favour of all these points, or at least most, because, look, the only thing we're asking for is transparency, and we ask the group that just introduced here a law of transparency, and the only thing we're asking is the same thing that comes up with the agreement that just signed the agency with the strike committee. So if they don't vote in favour, one of two: they're either not transparent or they're not going to comply with those agreements with the strike committee. I hope you withdraw, Mr. Santalices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u406	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u407	Let's see, Mrs. Acuña, I'm always willing to be very flexible in voting, but you are proposing a joint initiative with 15 points. I'm willing to vote one separately, but I'm telling you no. So, look for you, while we vote on the following, group them up and see if we all come to a cordial agreement. If not, it will be as presented. We started with the first vote... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mrs. Martínez, there are no amendments. Therefore, it is poured out just as it has been presented. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Or point 5? Good. If it's just one point, we vote on point 5 separately. If it seems to you, the author of the Joint Group initiative, Mrs Martínez, asks to vote on point 5 separately. So, first of all, we vote on point 5 of the motion. Vote of point 5 of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the socio-work situation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Point 5 of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u408	We voted for the rest of the motion put forward by the Joint Group. G.P. Motion vote. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the socio-work situation in Galicia, except point 5. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u409	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left, on the initiative of Mr Vázquez, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. G.P. Motion vote. on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the establishment of a parliamentary delegation to carry out work visits to various facilities related to the testing of military drones in Greek territory, and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 13; votes against, 56. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u410	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Acuña, who said that she accepted the amendment to the addition of Alternative Galicia from the Left, with a small transaction in point 15, to which she read and which I have here because it practically does not affect; only that the last sentence is withdrawn, and says, "To study the recovery of all privatized services", without more. So I'd ask him to tell us which points we vote separately, and if not, the initiative is split together. Mrs. Hold on, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u411	I thought it was the deputy's right, that it didn't depend on the number... We can vote on 2, 3 and 4; 5 and 6; and then all the rest together. Would that be possible? Three paragraphs: 2, 3, 4; 5 and 6 together, and the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u412	We shall begin the vote. We vote points 2, 3 and 4 of Mrs Acuña's motion. Vote for points 2, 3 and 4 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management of public health in the province of Ourense. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Points 2, 3 and 4 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u413	Let's vote points 5 and 6. Vote for points 5 and 6 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management of public health in the province of Ourense. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u414	Finally, we voted on the rest of the points of the motion. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management of public health in the province of Ourense, except points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u415	We continue with the development of the agenda, with the point of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and nine other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the expansion project of the Costa Hospital, provided for in its Director Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u416	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Socialist Group, the Left Galician Alternative Group and the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u417	You have the floor, to make your proposal, Mr. Balseiro Orol, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u418	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to the plenary of this House what is probably the most ambitious project, also one of the most technical complexities, those of which the German Government is pushing in the light marine region. We are talking about the expansion of the Costa Hospital, of the hospital centre located in the Burela Town Hall, about to fulfill the thirty years of its operation, which was inaugurated in 1986. This center is the reference hospital for the northern health area of Lugo and serves over 80,000 neighbors and an even larger floating population, especially during the summer. Its expansion will entail a substantial improvement in health care for marine citizenship. We're talking about one of the most necessary and most expected works by the neighborhoods: the expansion of the Coastal Hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, the expansion of the Costa Hospital has also been a recurring commitment of the People's Party since we reached the responsibility of government in 2009; the commitment ratified and led by the president of the Galician Union, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, on many occasions, and the commitment driven by hundreds of popular public offices in the district of the Navy. We are committed, ladies and gentlemen, to the improvement of public health. We wanted to provide the Navy with services according to its dimension and its own challenges that a center of its characteristics should lend in the 21st century. A goal so ambitious will understand your lordships that it has always been a risk bet, knowing that after joining the Union the current autonomous leaders were facing a crisis of budget less than the previous years, and played to do more with less; doing in times of difficulty what others did not know or did not want to do in times of kindness. And to deny, ladies and gentlemen, that the Coastal Hospital needed an enlargement was to deny evidence, so we had to be sensible, we had to say things as they are and demonstrate them with the ability to solve problems and manage reality. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition and honourable Members of the majority group, the improvement of the centre must be a goal of all. Today we want to refer to our commitment to public health, to the fundamental pier of the welfare state, and to our commitment to the expansion of the Coastal Hospital, urging Junta, through this initiative, to give the final impetus to the project to extend the public hospital centre of the Navy. But don't be mistaken, despite the difficulties I've already faced, in view of the technical complexity of the work to be carried out and the budgetary reality that we have lived these years, the German Government has never been of cross arms or inactive in this objective. In the last two legislations, essential steps were taken to bring about the expansion of the Coastal Hospital; steps that no other government has ever taken to bring about this great challenge. This is demonstrated by the chronology of facts: first, with the object of analyzing the needs of the current building and the services in it, the Board has already developed in the previous legislation the review of the functional plan, of the document that described the specific aspects that should be improved to give more modern and more quality care to patients in the health area. Following the availability of this functional document, the German Government contracted the drafting of the Plan Director of the Costa Hospital, which was bided on 19-4-2013, and then tried, and contracted on 30-9-2014. The Master Plan, which cost 112,000 euros, assumes the technical and architectural exhibition that sets out the steps directed to the modernization of the centre. This is a rational programming of the new performances and investments to be carried out in this hospital. Xunta already had a complex study of performances covering all areas of the hospital, initially addressing the hospitalization areas, external consultations, exploration offices, medical and nephrological day hospital and logistics and facilities they understand must focus on the first improvements to be achieved. Finally, more recently – in particular, in September – the German Government authorized the Galician Infrastructure Agency to provide a EUR 12.8 million credit to carry out the physical expansion and remodeling of its structure in the first phase of the works. The Official Journal of Galicia published on 30-9-2015 its bid, and today only the adjudication is pending, which will be completed with the start of the work, and today we have seen eleven companies presenting themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the Plan Director sets up a new hospital which will triple its current space, which will not be extended, but will also be remodeled in its existing structure at the moment, which will be run by phases, the first of which will involve action over 6,000 square meters, and which will be done in three years, with an investment in this first phase which will account for more than 12 million euros of the 20 intended for the long-awaited extension of the hospital. But it is also true that in parallel the Government of Greece also incorporated other urgent improvements, such as the creation of the new treatment room for chemotherapy – very well-accommodated, preventing the neighbors of the Navy from moving to Place or moving to Coruña – and home hospital services, which recently added a new team of professionals to expand their coverage and the number of patients treated. In addition, during these years important works have been promoted in this centre, works have been promoted for more than 2.5 million euros: the remodeling of the maternity area, the reform of the cover, the archive area, the ramp, the pharmacy, the provision of new ultrasounds and a second endoscopy room, the complete remodeling of the anesthesia towers, the modernization of the chirophanes and the new rapid pathways for cancer treatment. I'm going to finish, and I can't do it, ladies and gentlemen, I can't ask for the support of this House to make a final step towards such an essential project for our region, for our province and also for our autonomous community, without echoing the majority feeling of the citizens of this region, of our neighbours, of the neighbors of Vidal, of the neighbors of the House, of the neighbors of whom you speak, and also of the neighbors of Mr. Val, who will intervene next; of the rest we are all neighbors, but we are certainly not in this region. And we assumed a debt of gratitude to the medical staff, the nurses, the janitors, the cleaners, the maintenance, the kitchen, the technicians, the administrative... and thus a long list of people who wanted to, do and will continue to do their best for the operation of the largest public institution we have in our district. And it is true that throughout all this time they have made it possible with their work, with their effort and with their involvement – and often greater than required – that the marine neighbours can enjoy life with health. Ladies and gentlemen, expanding the Coastal Hospital will provide these professionals with a more comfortable instrument in which to carry out their work and with better and better services for all the neighbors of the Navy are shining. I'm done, Madam President, and I have to say something; I have to say that in this great project we only believe in the members of the People's Party from the beginning. Others denied the most obvious step...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u419	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u420	They came to say – I mean, Madam President – that we would close the hospital, they came to say that we would turn him into an outpatient room, they came to say that women would give birth again, either in the Gesta or in the Winnership. No, please don't, it's in the media, we're not making anything up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u421	Finish, please, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u422	Look at the hemero library. That's why today we want to give you the opportunity, which is in time to rectify by urging the Galician Board to continue the project and the expansion of the Coastal Hospital envisaged in its Director Plan. We expect the unanimity of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u423	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u424	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u425	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u426	Mr. Balsairo, this non-law proposition is an impeccable propaganda work that could be part of Galician Radio-Television news. But beyond propaganda, there's nothing. The truth is, the Coast Hospital is in a bad situation. In August of this year the IGC denounced the deficiencies in the structure of the Costa Hospital because of the lack of maintenance and investment. This unwary gave rise to crackdowns on the sidewalk, and they had to seal the area. In addition, the integrated management area, approved in 2013 – which refers to the initiative in the exhibition – has obtained social rejection and staff, since, far from enhancing and improving health care in the area, there is a loss of both economic and material resources and staff, which, rather than bringing health to people, makes the quality of care worse. The Navy needs its own integrated management decree to manage primary and specialized care, and a model that bets on hospital growth with full capacity to manage its resources. The medical staff working in the marine health area and who in his day opposed EOXI Lugo, Cervo, Monforte de Lemos, after a year of their application – time more than enough to make an assessment – made public their conclusions. I understand that Mr. Tellado and Mrs. Paula Prado are not interested in anything, but if they could lower their tone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u427	Mrs. Martínez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u428	The hospital has lost autonomy, according to the conclusions of this medical staff, and all decisions are supervised by Lugo; therefore, they are always subject to the interests of the HULA. There is no specific budget for the Costa Hospital and it is impossible to advance in the integration between primary and specialized care. Even from Lugo it is decided which staff should be replaced and how it should be hired. From the extension of the hospital, no information has been given to the staff or to the existence of future projects. The resonant truck reduced its stay from three weeks a month when it paid the Costa Hospital, to one week a month since it paid the Lugo hospital, the HULA. The consequence is that there is an exponential increase in the waiting list to perform a magnetic resonance. The lack of autonomy, the lack of knowledge, the lack of interest of EOXI managers, the partial privatization of the maintenance service and the centralization of the IT service in Lugo are causing the deterioration of instrumental teams. Computers and other computer equipment don't work until Lugo gives the order that they will be fixed, which creates serious attention problems in services that depend entirely on electronics, such as laboratory or radiology. They haven't covered all of the specialists' squares that have retired in both specialized and primary care. So, I don't know where you get all that propaganda that has released us because neither marine society nor marine medical personnel nor health personnel are in line with your version, and leave it clearly shaped and they make it public so that it doesn't seem doubtful what's going on in the Coast Hospital. The People's Party and the Government must assume their commitments to the Navy by proceeding to the actual expansion of an obsolete hospital, damaged and spaceless for quality care. Similarly, the Government must complete reform of the existing part to ensure the safety of the staff of the centre and of the neighbours and neighbours who attend the hospital every day. And to ensure the commitment of the PP to the Costa Hospital, this amendment, which, if that commitment is real, I hope the People's Party will accept and vote in favour of it, this replacement amendment, which has three points: the first one, proceed with the utmost urgency to the comprehensive reform of the current hospital infrastructure; the second one: proceed with the utmost urgency to the expansion of the Costa Hospital, increasing the number of beds, increasing the hemodialysis service, creating a permanent magnetic resonance service and increasing the staff frame, and also maintaining all services and units existing both in primary and specialized; and the third point: repeal of Decree 55/2013 of 21 March, so regulates the integrated organizational structure of management Lugo, Cervo, Monforte de Lemos, by establishing an integrated management area for the Navy with full management capacity in primary and specialized assistance and on its human, economic, infrastructure and provision of services in the healthcare area. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u429	Thank you very much. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u430	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. Balsairo. You know that the BNG Parliamentary Group was very critical and opposed to Lugo-Cervo-Monforte's integrated organizational management structure, since it was understood that centralization of hospital management in Lugo would be very detrimental to the service of public health, would entail a serious deterioration of it, would worsen the quality of care and would begin the path of privatization. At that time it was not only the opinion of the BNG, but most of the entire marine society, but also that of Lugo and that of the Monforte area, it made harsh criticisms of this centralization, and personalized it in Mr. President, who did not keep the word, Mr. Feijóo, who had publicly committed himself to maintaining these areas and who did not do so. The reality today is cut from that in the deterioration of public health, cuts in economic resources, in material, in staff, which has worsened – I say – the quality of care and increased the derivation of patients into private centers, converting privatization to health, cuts denounced by the vast majority of marine society, trade unions, political parties, even municipalities. Mr. Balsairo, I agree with you that thirty years ago indeed the Coastal Hospital, Burela, I have submitted to the end of many displacements, of course inhumane, for most sailors. I also share that since that time the birth of children under 30 were doing so in the hospital instead of doing so in the Gesta or the Winnership. But I also share that from that moment on the approach of the inhabitants of the Navy, of these fourteen municipalities of 80,000 inhabitants, but that in summer are many more, it has been an approach to public health and quality, but what I do not agree with is that with the governments of Mr. Feijóo again the displacements in the search for that quality public health care, which begins to fail due to privatization, displacements of over 400 sick people who had to be operated elsewhere, displacements for nuclear magnetic resonances in private clinics, displacements for mammography, etc. The BNG, of course, is in favour of defending the quality of public health. The most expected enlargement works, but also more claimed by the Navy, the BNG also defends them. And as far as his non-law proposal is concerned, the master plan, which is already the third plan director of hospital history, announced, none have concluded with a real expansion. The BNG, of course, rejects propaganda and advertising, but we have to take steps for the expansion works that we are talking about today – whether it's the sixth or seventh time –. On 13 March 2012, Mr. Feijóo was the fourth, the fourth time he spoke of enlargement in the debate of the nation's state; 13 March 2012, when he had six months left, he said, "We are working to boost the expansion of the public hospital in Costa, the luxury navy." And there were six months left. The first time it seems to me that it was in 2009, in the electoral campaign itself. Indeed, Mr. Balsairo, on behalf of Mr. Feijóo, announced that it would be enlargement. Another expansion came in 2010 in 2011 another one, etc., etc. Given the history of bankrupt announcements, without deadlines, without concrete budgets, even without executing the promised, after such publicity and propaganda, the most appropriate, Mr. Balsairo, would be the most absolute mistrust. But the BNG, because we're committed to defending public health, we've tabled an amendment for all that you just said a few minutes ago from this stage. Since there is a first phase of 18.8 million to be realized in three years, we ask for one point: that we increase the budget departure for the Coastal Hospital, Burela, for the next year's exercise, in 3 million more, to ensure that it ends in three years and we don't have to wait ten or twelve. Second, full staffing to ensure quality health care at the hospital itself. A further point: to ensure the public management of all services covered by the master plan, both health and maintenance plans, and even the parking lot, which appears to be in progress. I hope you will accept the amendment of the BNG for the sake of the public health of the Navy. If you don't accept it, Mr. Balsairo, you must understand that with us, for advertising and advertising, you won't count. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u431	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u432	Thank you, President. For I tremble at this initiative today, Mr. Balsairo, I tremble, that after completely breaching all commitment to the health of the coast they will be able to bring this here today. Mr. Balsairo, in 2009 Mr. Feijóo had already announced that expansion after the autonomics. Six years ago, six years ago! And now, after six years, they bring an initiative asking for enlargement. Well, Mr. Voicer, your mayor, from your Town Hall, from this Town Hall, has already made the land available for enlargement in 2011! What have you done in the last four years? I'll tell him. In 2012, again announce enlargement; in 2013, announce the master plan, without enlargement; in 2014, again announce the master plan, but without enlargement. Six years of promises, six years, Mr. Balsairo! And today they want us to vote on an initiative that says continue with the project and the performances. Continue what if they haven't done anything until now? Well, yes, the truth is they did something, and it was precisely cut in services and staff; you promised professionals and professionals that the integrated area wouldn't assume any cut of services, and they lied, they lied! That's why the hospital manager and the nursing director resigned, and that's why last year most of the center's professionals and professionals reported that the service cuts they feared had already been produced with the integrated area, that the center has lost autonomy, that they have virtually no capacity to do anything independently, that Lugo's dependence implies a lot of bureaucratic procedures that even hinder the maintenance of the center, the equipment and the computers. They promised more services and improvements, and it was all backwards. Patients now have to move, even to 200 kilometers, to do a colonoscopy or to surgery that was previously done in the center, like cataracts can be. But where do they take you? Don't take them to another public hospital, no! They're taking us to a private clinic. And bring this here, they're still able to bring this here. After dedicating himself to personal cuts and services, as people were solving, for you announced that creation of the ADO service, that yes, without providing enough staff, Mr. Balsairo, half the necessary staff; or in oncohematology, in a lounge, there at the bottom of the hospital and without means. Meanwhile, fifteen beds were closed and the magnetic resonances were still being made in a truck, Mr. Balsairo, just like in Vigo – which, by the way, is already called the "Panorama truck." A truck which, in addition, shares with Lugo's area, and which, as you know, is more often in your presence at the Coast Hospital, and therefore the resonance waiting list at the Coast Hospital has multiplied considerably since they eliminated that frequency. I've been there, I've been there in July with my partner Ramón Vázquez, and, as you know, on an official visit, but we've also been with workers and workers. And you know what they told us? We were asked to report that the samples of pathological anatomy had been piled up in a closet for three or four months, so there were already 1,500 unanalysed samples, which, if you don't know, are necessary to diagnose some serious diseases, such as cancer. Mr. Balsairo, what do you mean? Don't they have anything to tell us about that? How can you bring this initiative here today? Worry about it. So we tabled an amendment asking the Government to clarify these delays...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u433	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u434	...that they are producing in pathological anatomy – they give us the data today and give us the reason for these delays – that these plants of pathological anatomy are being expanded, that they provide the ADO with sufficient personnel, that it is not an ad, that they provide pathological anatomy, that they review and reverse that cut of services, that they provide a magnetic resonance of personnel and that they extend the hospital, but also with sufficient budget. You haven't done anything in six, in seven years, and you intend to leave it to the Government to come the works and the expenses to be done. Well, Mr. Balsairo, as you said before, you have today the opportunity to rectify and commit. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u435	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u436	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u437	Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, today we are presented with an initiative by the People's Party to talk about the Coast Hospital, the Navy, and its enlargement, and they also do so with an intervention from this very emotional gallery by Mr. Balsairo. The truth is that it's not wrong, it's not wrong, after almost seven years of silence, to do absolutely nothing in the face of this need, after seven years of running away from their responsibilities, now, with the legislation practically finished, they want to come to this House like the defenders of public health in the Navy district, and for that they want to do it even going on over the thousands of people who have been manifesting themselves all these years, demanding improvements in the face of this need of basic necessary and hospital infrastructure for the Navy district. [[Applause]] And for that they do it with an initiative not to say anything at all, with obviousness, that is, an initiative also completely surpassed in time by the very management of even the Government of the People's Party. Look, what does it mean, Mr. Balsairo, that you come here today with an initiative to ask us to vote to continue with the project and with the enlargement of the Coast Hospital? What's the point, Mr. Balsairo? If you don't vote in favour of this initiative, are you going to stop the open competition? Look, I think this is to come here laughing at the citizens of the Navy, and the citizens of the Navy are sick of you, they're sick of you and your way of doing politics, and when I say of yours, I mean what you do, Mr. Balsairo, who is able to use the effort of thousands of people to come here to promote himself. Because this is what this initiative is about, Mr. Balsairo: advertising and propaganda. And in this case, neither the People's Party nor the Government, but its own propaganda. I know you need to promote yourself, Mr. Balsairo, that you're not in the best moments in the neighborhood, but look, come here and talk about these issues... And besides, something made it very clear, because your technical staff, that staff at your disposal, have already taken care of these days before the local press was bombarded to warn the citizen that you would come here today to talk about this matter. Look, but what you didn't tell him, or what you didn't do to that cabinet that you have at your disposal in those press releases, was to tell the citizenship of the Navy that, indeed, there's already a public contest going on and that yesterday we even know that there are eleven offers for that. I mean, what's the point of coming here today, Mr. Balsairo? Voting the text that you bring us today is not worth anything at all. And this is good to know by the Members of the People's Party, who know what they're going to vote for, because I had thought, I had understood, since I got to this House, that the initiatives were to push, to urge the Government to do something he's not doing, but Mr. Balsairo has just found out otherwise: he urges the Government to do something he's already doing. But, look, we present to you an amendment, Mr. Balsairo, because the effort and commitment of the People's Party for the coming year with this infrastructure is clearly collected in Sergas' budgets, Mr. Balsairo. Look, I'm telling you, because maybe you didn't read it: program 421A, concept 621, section 50, service 01, a match of 1,800,000 euros. That's the real commitment to the expansion of the Coastal Hospital next year. And what does this mean, Mr. Balsairo? Well it means that for us it is a clearly insufficient commitment, insufficient because with this amount next year a little more will give than to do the technical project of that enlargement, if they do. And we think it's insufficient, too, because look, if you run EUR 1 million in the next 12 months, there are sixteen months left, which is the deadline that you plan in that twenty-eight-month contest for the execution of the work, to run more than EUR 10 million, and we believe that, with the effort you plan for the coming year, it will be impossible to meet the deadline that you yourself foresee. Look, Mr. Balsairo, if you want anything else to come here to advertise yourself, you do! If you want something else to come here to solemnize what is already obvious, I ask you to accept the amendment that we propose to you, and that is to increase that game that Sergas spends for the year that comes up to 4.5 million euros, so you can meet the deadlines that you yourselves contemplate in that public contest. But I think what you're doing is you're just going to come here to do propaganda in the face of an electoral process. Look, Marine citizenship isn't stupid, you know exactly what you've been cheating on her for these seven years. With the legislation practically finished, Mr. Balsairo, it will not be you who perform the expansion works of the Costa Hospital, it will have to be a socialist government that executes those works. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u438	Thank you, Mr. Val. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u439	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today I will allow your lordships to begin my intervention by congratulating the opposition, by congratulating the opposition because we agreed on something we had never agreed on: we agree that the expansion of the Coastal Hospital is going to take forward and that it is necessary. For the first time, you vote or do not vote favourably, I believe that bringing this initiative for the first time has put us all in the same direction: that the extension of the Coastal Hospital is necessary and that the enlargement of the Coastal Hospital has begun a government of the People's Party, that it will carry out a government of the People's Party and that it will end a government of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And to say this, I must say, man! Mr. Val, it seems a lie, if this initiative is useless, as you amend it? [[Murmurs.]] Well, if it's not for nothing, why waste your time amending this initiative? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And speaking of clippings, I have to tell them: firstly, I have to tell Mrs. Martínez that I will not answer you, because if you spoke to the IGC alone and exclusively, I know what they said, but that's not how the Navy feels. To talk about the Coastal Hospital, we need to talk to the entire Navy, not only about what IGC says, because the only thing IGC said all this time at the Coastal Hospital in the Navy were lies, nothing else. Lie after lies! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I have to say no to them with cutbacks. You've been telling us since 2009 a single service that had lost the Costa Hospital. Do you know which one lost the Costa Hospital? None. Do you know what the Coast Hospital has done since 2009 after the integrated area? To gain services, to win the oncology service – which the Socialist Party did not vote for an initiative in this Parliament in favour of putting the Oncology Service at the Costa Hospital – and winning the Home Hospitalization Service. That's what gave us the integrated area; the integrated area gave us that, and that's what we know the neighbors of the Navy know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because whoever talks to them, luckily or unfortunately, knows the Marine Coast Hospital to be in -- in the last three years -- and from outside. And I can speak with knowledge from within and with knowledge from outside. Which way, ladies and gentlemen, if you... I know, what are you going to say? Do you know what Mr. Val said on March 15, 2014? Here I am, that we would turn him into an outpatient room. You know what I was saying? [[Murmurs.]] That we were dismantling the center when we were earning services, that we were privatizing it. That's what Mr. Val said, he's here. But do you know what he said, Mr. Pombo – you know what he said, that his companion was scared – you know what the Nationalist Block Galego said on Friday, February 14, 2014? I was hoping Sergas would mount oncology. It's already working. But I was saying more, I was saying more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u440	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u441	..., he said the children would be born again in Gesta. That's what I was saying. [[Murmurs.]] That the children would be born again in Gesta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u442	Finish, please, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u443	But, Your Honor, that's what the PSOE said, but look, but no, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look... because you don't have any of this... you, at least, have no authority. You know what the two-party government told you... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u444	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u445	...to this Member in 2008? You know what I was saying? Do you know how much the two-party government investment was at the Costa Hospital? Do you know how much it was? Zero euros. It's here collected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u446	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u447	Answered in writing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u448	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u449	Zero euros. Do you know how much government investment has been in these last six years of the People's Party government? 2.5 million euros. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u450	Mr. Balsairo, thank you, your time is up. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Balsairo, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u451	President, if you let me stand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u452	I don't have any problems. What's true is they all yell when I talk to Mr. Balsairo, he doesn't listen to me. Of course, of course! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Balsairo, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u453	May I be positioned on the amendments, Madam President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u454	The opposition's request is yours... [[Laughter]] Ten seconds, ten seconds, eh! Of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u455	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm glad the opposition gave me the chance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry that they give me this opportunity because they're seeing us the Marines and they see the respect they have to the Navy's public health these ladies from the benches, which is why I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] To say that the amendments practically ask what we've already been incarcerated from the People's Party, and what we're going to do is we're not going to accept them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u456	Thank you very much. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-24-DSPG131.u457	Before we lift the session, please inform your lordships... [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, just a brief communication. The request... the approval, the request of the Government, of questions on agenda 8.2 and 8.3, registration numbers 43249, of the People's Group, and 43263 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We'll stop the meeting until 10 a.m. tomorrow. [[Murmurs.]] The request was requested to be heard by the Government, I have already said so.
