ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u1	This plenary meeting will open on 29 September 2015. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. You have justified Mrs. Burgo López's absence. We come in, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda with point one. Debate on the opinion and on the motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Affairs of the Council of Auditors on the Public Sector Monitoring Reports of Galicia corresponding to the 2014 and 2015 work plans
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u2	The opinion of the monitoring reports on the public sector in Galicia corresponding to the above-mentioned work plans recommends the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2013 and incorporates thirteen motions for resolutions which were adopted by committee and which are now put to the debate and vote. First of all, for the presentation of the Commission's ruling, the President of the Non-Lexislative Commission for Relations with the Board of Auditors, Mr Daniel Luis Varela Suanzes-Carpegna.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Last June 25th came into the Chamber the reports of the Galician Public Sector Supervisory Board of Auditors corresponding to the Council's work plans for the years 2014 and 2015. These reports, as well as the various proposals submitted by all parliamentary groups, consisting of the presentation, examined and prepared the corresponding report on the previous proposals, were adopted at the meeting on 18 September, incorporating the proposal for a resolution, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group, on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2013. The remaining motions for resolutions, a total of thirteen, as the President has just said, are now joining the debate and the vote on the House. In short, these are the first four proposals originally from the People's Parliamentary Group: No. 1 calls on the Joint Committee to continue to comply effectively with the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors in its monitoring report. Paragraph 2 which reports annually to the Galician Parliament on the actions taken to follow up on the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. Paragraph 3 calls upon the Joint Committee on General Action of the Autonomous Community, with a view to exchanging information by implementing telematic performance, facilitating access to documentation and improving the follow-up to the recommendations contained in the control reports, in relation to the duty to cooperate as soon as possible with the Council of Auditors. And number 4 to establish systems for the prevention of corruption, prioritising, according to the external supervisory institution, the most sensitive areas, with the objective that the Board of Auditors, within its scope, may make proposals on regulatory or internal instruments for the prevention of corruption. Paragraph 5 of the original proposal of the Socialist Group urges the Union to ensure that the new programming period for the European Funds 2014-2020 will continue to improve transparency and access to information by citizens or by any entity or agency or beneficiary of the various funds. By the Left Galician Alternative Group, the original 6 and 7 numbers. The first calls on the Union to strengthen the financing of local entities, provide public services of economic competence to the municipalities and increase the framework for collaboration between the municipal institutions and the Galician Union. And number 7 calls on the Union to ensure the execution of European interterritorial compensation funds. The numbers 8, 9 and 10 are transactions with original proposals from the Galician Nationalist Block. Paragraph 8 calls on the Union to use indicators in the systems of analysis and internal follow-up of European funding projects, within the operational framework of the European Funds 2014-2020, to enable in the same economic exercise of its execution to know the deviations, in order to detect and solve the impacts that are occurring in the management procedures of European funds and that affect the efficiency and effectiveness of the various management units of European aid. Number 9 calls on the Union to provide greater transparency in the process of rationalizing the instrumental public sector with accessible public information on the objectives marked and their degree of realization, as well as to render the accounts of all autonomous instrumental entities. And number 10 urges Together to expand the reporting information on debt. Finally, originally by the Joint Parliament Group, 11.12 and 13. Number 11 calls for a logical correspondence between the activity to be developed by each entity and its legal form, so that the legal regime (personal, recruitment, accounting and heritage) that applies to each public entity is the most appropriate to its nature and characteristics. Number 12 urges Together to advertise their annual accounts through their websites. Finally, paragraph 13, which calls on the Union to establish in the subscribed health concerts the specific requirements for the management of the provision, and in particular the conditions of resources, the quality of care and the control indicators. Here we are, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the statement and the motions for resolutions which are now before us for the debate and the vote of the whole of the House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Varela. Round of parliamentary groups. You have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Group, Mrs. Consuelo Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to start this first intervention today in the plenary by congratulating the Catalan people on the results of last Sunday's elections, and to expressly congratulate the CUP on its results and election success. Question that in Galicia, because it seems more complicated to be able to talk about nation rights and nation recognition, as well as to develop policies aimed at improving the social and economic conditions of our people. To thank the Board of Auditors for its work and to regret that most of it is abandoned by the PP in an act of absolute contempt for its work and the Greek people. Of the forty resolutions, three were accepted and the rest rejected. For example, resolution No. 1 was rejected, which sought to provide the Human, Material and Technology Council with the necessary human resources, materials and technology to carry out its work in preventing and combating corruption. You don't understand how no body can be given a job and then you don't give the means or material or human to accomplish it, unless all that matter is pure propaganda. Just like resolution number 2, where you refuse to comply with all the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. We also have to say that we are in this debate precisely because the opposition has to convince the Government to comply with the recommendations of the Board of Auditors rather than being here listening to what are the recommendations that do not meet the Board and why they are not. These are the great absurdities of the European democracies in which we live. Thus the People's Party rejects without any explanation the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors and which are collected in the resolutions of the Joint Group Nos. 3, 4, 5 and 6, and which will be directed to integrate autonomous bodies and entities into the General Account of the Autonomous Community, within the 2010 Accounting Plan; that is, with five years' delay the Board of Auditors continues to demand this action. Resolution No. 8 also called for the abandonment of the practice of resorting to the expansion of appropriations for expenses that are not unpredictable; resolution No. 9, which called for abandoning the practice of the abuse of the use of the Imprevisto programme; to 10, which called for the abandonment of the practice of using the contingency fund as a current expenditure tool; or to 11 and 12, which called for compliance with the budgetary year, ending with the shift of obligations to future exercises. The time is up, because the fact is that five minutes to talk about the whole debate on the report of the Board of Auditors is too little time, but also to say that all amendments aimed at achieving greater transparency in the use of European funds, as well as in streamlining of the instrumental public sector, and reporting on the accounts of venture capital funds have been rejected. Resolutions 27, 28 and 29 also calling on the Board to implement an agreement with the legal representation of workers and workers in relation to the action plans of the FEGAS, so that it is geared to the objectives to be achieved, that the adequacy of the programming of the courses is related to the training demand and to develop, together with the legal representation of workers, a FEGAS RPT which distributes staff through functional areas, indicating the requirements for the performance of posts. Resolution No. 30, which urged the Board to eradicate the practice of formalizing temporary contracts which are renewed successively by violating workers' rights and jeopardizing the working conditions of public workers. Also at 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 40, directed to monitor the work of Sergas and essentially also to monitor what happened at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro as regards the granting of the work, the fulfilment of clauses, the failure to meet the cost and the added cost of the deficiencies detected. Resolutions 36 and 38, which called for the control of concerted health services and for the cessation of their policy of continuing to enter into health services, as stated by the Board of Auditors itself, which gives the alarm voice. And, finally, resolution No. 39, which once again insists on the need to monitor the care work being carried out by the Povervisa Hospital, discriminated which are the income and expenses of the private party and which are the revenues and expenses of the public...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u7	...to ensure that public money is not used for private activity. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u8	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests and guests; in particular, I would like to greet the guests present to attend the debate on the popular legislative initiative that we will discuss next. Indeed, of the twelve motions for resolutions submitted by the BNG were accepted, the result of a transaction and thus incorporated into the dictatorship, three proposals. The other proposals were rejected, which they did nothing but take up many of the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors itself. In the game of appearances that this government has used to us, it turns out that a reform of the law is adopted to strengthen the Board of Auditors and equip it with new powers, for example in the prevention of corruption, and all this is done without strengthening the human resources so that the Board of Auditors can effectively carry out its work, it is done while Mr. Dositeo Rodríguez continues to be charged with the alleged embezzlement of public funds, and he has not yet resigned or demanded the People's Group to resign. In addition, the Government continues to consistently disregard the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. And today we have a new example. We have proposed to urge the Galician Union to correct all the limitations that condition the scope of the Council's work and reduce the quality and transparency of economic information. Because the Council says that there are entities in the Italian public sector who remain unadapted to the current regulatory framework, that 34 entities did not report in 2013, that the General Account's memory presents a distorted and insufficient information and that there is no budgetary information in the commercial companies that enables us to know the degree of compliance with the operating and capital budgets approved by this Parliament. It also says that there are still gaps in the definition of spending programmes and in the realization of objectives that prevent an evaluation of results and that other gaps persist that prevent – and I quote textually – "from having an overall vision of the economic activity of the Administration." But the proposal to correct all these eves was rejected by the Popular Group. We have also proposed to assume all the observations made by the Council regarding Sergas, because, look, the Council radically questions – in its report – the effectiveness of its control regime. The Tip warns Sergas to continue without implementing an integrated accounting system, as required by Galicia's General Public Accounting Plan. The Council warns that the foundations for research linked to hospital centers remain unincorporated in the public system and without reporting to the Council. But the Popular Group has also rejected the incorporation of this proposal to correct all these evasive measures. We proposed that we call upon the Council to improve the degree of execution of the consolidated budget, because there was a variation in the initial budgets which, according to the Council, affected the credibility of the budget initially approved and which, in addition, affected mainly investments. He left without investing nearly 1 euro out of every 3 euro budgeted. Finally, this must consist of the effort invested by the Galician Union in times of crisis, of what this Government so presumes, in budgeting investments that soon will not be carried out. We also proposed, following the Council's recommendations, to urge the Administration not to continue to use the extension of appropriations for the same concepts of expenditure as in previous years without meeting the conditions of unforeseeable requirements for it, to stop misuse of the Contingency Fund and to adequately assess future commitments. Because, look, the Council warns that future commitments are undervalued and, despite this undervalued, future commitments in 2013 have reached an amount of more than EUR 12,200 million, an increase of nothing more and nothing less than EUR 2.259 million compared to the previous exercise. We have proposed, ladies and gentlemen, ultimately correcting practices by supporting ourselves in the Council's own recommendations, which question the rigour in the management of public accounts of what this government so strongly claims, but the support group said no. For these reasons, I announce that the BNG will vote in favour of the resolutions incorporated into the ruling proposed by the various opposition groups of this House, but that we will vote against the dictatorship, and therefore of the adoption of the 2013 General Account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galga de Left has the word Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u11	Good morning to all and to all. We hold this debate on the motions for resolutions on the reports of the Board of Auditors just fifteen days after the renewal agreement of the advisers reached by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. This involved an election, in a new plenary session of the Board of Auditors, of a new senior advisor, and in addition to a senior advisor and an account board that performs functions when they have assumed this role in the prevention of corruption. And this happens at the same time that this plenary maintains as a member of the Board of Auditors a person, Mr. Dositeo Rodríguez, charged with the role played at the Fundación Camilo José Cela. It seems to us that this directly affects the credibility of this body, and it seems to us that, as the renewal of the charges has been agreed, the two major parties of Parliament with greater weight could at least have agreed and urged the Board of Auditors to cease this person's fulminant. Mr. Dositeo Rodríguez, accused of his role in the Fundación Camilo José Cela, where he is head of his own daughter, cannot remain in his position as accountant, because the body responsible for monitoring Galician public accounts deserves all credibility. So you must assume responsibility. This would also allow you to dignify the function of this entity. So by entering and referring to our motions for resolutions, few of them were assumed, only two, and we began by making two recommendations in which we urged the Council of Galicia to undertake a reinforcement of the public services of the municipalities, increasing their funding and increasing the framework for collaboration. Town Councils take on a significant amount of inappropriate skills. According to Fegamp itself, 20 per cent of the competences of the municipalities are specific to the Galician Union and the investment in this type of competence exceeds 241 million. We therefore believe that the Union must assume its responsibilities by increasing the framework for collaboration, but also funding. As far as collaboration is concerned, the People's Party seems willing to assume it, but not to increase funding, which makes it very clear what true intentions are. That's what we, at least, thought. We have made other proposals in which we urged the Galician Union to prioritize, within the programme of rural development expenditure financed by the European funds, to give a boost to the dairy sector, which is currently experiencing serious difficulties, difficulties which are periodic and chronic and therefore need truly structural measures and not patches such as those used to be taken by the Government of Greece. In this sense, we believe that these compensation funds should be used to increase the territorial base of holdings, to develop within the livestock sector the possibility of starting processing processes and not being merely producers; ultimately, to bet on cross-cutting measures rather than patches, as stated at the outset. Thirdly, we urge the Galician Board to run the interterritorial compensation funds, because the Board itself in its control reports detects a poor degree of execution in these funds, which are fundamental to the development of our country; therefore, they must be executed in its entirety and not in part, as clearly stated – I insist – the Board of Auditors itself. We also urge the Galician Council to present the surrender of the General Account by June 30 of the year after the fiscal year. This is nothing other than the same as the Board of Auditors itself. It was done by the chief adviser himself, who made it clear that the Board of Auditors can forward its reports, always and when the Council of Galicia's presentation, surrender, of the General Account, but the People's Party seems to have no desire that this can be done, and therefore that the monitoring of Galicia's public accounts is truly effective and does not dilate itself often eternally in time. Finally, we proposed the creation of a parliamentary study committee on the viability of Galician public debt. The reports of the Board of Auditors are taxing on this issue and establish – the account advisor himself said in his last appearance – that we are at risk of unsustainable debt; a debt that has reached a historic peak, EUR 10,200 million, which reaches 18.3% of Galicia's GDP, which has increased by only 3% in the last year, but which at the same time is not being used to guarantee the public services received by the Greeks and the Greeks, who suffer permanent cuts in human resources, but also from material resources. We therefore believe that a parliamentary study commission should be set up to assess the sustainability of our debt, but this proposal was not taken up by the People's Group either. With regard to the rest of the proposals from the rest of the opposition groups, we shall, of course, vote in favour, because we agree in the spirit of many of them, but we will not do so with the dictates, because we certainly do not approve the proposals made by the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Mr González Santín has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. I shall begin by saying that of the eleven proposals which the Socialist Group has put forward, these motions for resolutions, only one, one proposal has been accepted. In this accepted proposal, we call for improved transparency in the programming of European funds between 2014 and 2020. I don't think it's anything strange what you're asking. But it was neither strange nor logical for the rest of our resolutions, which were not accepted by the majority group. I'll start with the first, something really unheard of, and year after year we're forced to make the same appreciation, and it's just that the Galician board doesn't cooperate with the Board of Auditors. So there are a number of limitations that are within reach, or otherwise we understand better, that it does not provide information so that the Board of Auditors can do its work. I'm going to read a little bit of the report that makes it clear that this repeats year after year. He says, "Just as in previous years, jobs have been affected by the following limitations: first, there is no information on the age of the outstanding debtors, which limits the calculation of the doubtful payment rights. Two, General Intervention did not provide information on accumulated financial deviations, which affects the representativeness of the remainder of Treasury. Three, as usual, liquidation does not include adjustments to initial income forecasts." I mean, this is going to happen again year after year without the Galician Council getting a brake on it. In the second motion for a resolution, what we were asking for is to reduce the large number of budgetary changes, which are affecting the budget itself, since, as the Council itself said in this report, the last exercise was increased by 27%, which leads to the budget approved by this House to which it is actually executed because it has virtually nothing to do with it. We are not questioning here that there are no budgetary changes – of course, there must be – what is being questioned here is the large number of changes there is, and we believe that, as the Board of Auditors says, the Galician Board would have to reduce the number of budgetary changes it makes throughout the exercise. In our third resolution, what we asked for was that budgets be more realistic, and that certain programs, such as the Improvised or the Contingency Fund, were used for what they were actually created, and not like a tailor-made box where the Galician Board has some funds it can have and actually have throughout the exercise to apply them to those games which it did not properly plan. In our resolution number 4 what we were asking for was precisely that, a good management of budget execution. We're seeing that year by year it repeats that there are budgets in which after the execution is not 100%, and in the case of some games, such as investment splits or some transfers, that execution does not even exceed 60%. We also requested in our resolution No. 5 that the Galician Union change its policy to health personnel, which we believe is necessary. The Council itself said in its report that 882 people were brought down in private squares, while the number of possible squares increased to 529 people. I mean, what the Galician board's staff policy on health is a precarious public employment, something that is inevitably directly impacting on public service management. In our resolution No. 6, what we were asking for was so high as to eliminate all the expenditure on public accounts, which, as the Board itself said, came from a residual nature in the years 2007 and 2008, and it was increased in this exercise and in the previous one. This, of course, also affects the credibility of budgets approved by the Union itself. In our resolution #7 what we proposed was that the health councils be put in place effectively; a body of participation which the Health Council decided not to put in place. The excuse is that there's a regulatory change to unique health areas. We believe that, by not modifying the health map, these participating bodies can actually put in place, and if they don't, it's because the board and the Health Council don't want to do it. We also proposed in our resolution number 10 greater independence and better planning of the activities of the Fegas, as well as greater rigour in the programming of the courses, actually responding to existing demand And finally, in our resolution No 11, which – I repeat – was not adopted either, what we were asking for was to assume the observations of the Board of Auditors and the Court of Auditors, and it seems that this is not acceptable either. We ask for new powers for a Board of Auditors and then we do not accept what it proposes. That is why we are going to support all the group resolutions, but we will not support the Community General Account. The ruling will not be approved by the Socialist Party for a simple reason: we believe that the Council of Galicia has much to improve in its accounts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u14	Thank you very much. Popular Group, Mrs Pouso Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u15	Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, we want to announce that the Group of the People's Party will approve the 2013 General Account. As stated in the final statement on it by the plenary session of the Council of Auditors, it is stated that the General Account of the Autonomous Community reasonably reflects the economic and financial activity developed in the financial year 2013; an account which has been rendered in time and which reflects the economic and financial performances and assets of the autonomous administration during the financial year. So we can extract the data that gives us a vision of the management carried out by the Government of the People's Party. The results shown are positive in comparison with previous years. Thus, we have positively improved both the budgetary result and the rest of the treasury, and this is positive in more than 64 million euros; gross savings are also recovered. And Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, fulfils the deficit target, fulfilling a positive deviation of 0.07 points on the gross domestic product. Therefore, the limit of indebtedness that was established and agreed by the Council of Ministers dated 30 August 2013 has been met. And all this data that many of you might think are not insignificant, because all these magnitudes are the ones that tell us the solvency of our accounts. It is therefore a guarantee that citizens will be able to provide quality public services and that they will be able to meet our payment obligations with the staff serving in the Autonomic Administration, as well as to be able to pay their suppliers on time and comply with the commitments they have acquired. Ultimately, that's what guarantees our autonomy and our self-government. Our motions for resolutions — No. 2 and No. 3 — are geared to follow-up to the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors in its monitoring reports and to be reported annually by the Parliament of Galicia through the relevant committee to follow-up on the recommendations made by the external control body. In these two motions for resolutions made by the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, and which are generic, the whole of the motions for resolutions tabled by the other political groups is filled; only while you have been saying that by means of the Council's own reports of recommendations, we collect them in these generic proposals. And our proposals number 4 and number 5 will be geared towards encouraging the creation of the Joint Committee of the Council of Auditors with the General Intervention of the Autonomous Community, with the objective of exchanging information by implementing the telematic performance of accounts, facilitating access to documentation and improving follow-up to the recommendations contained in the control reports. We also urge the Union, in cooperation with the Council of Auditors, to establish systems for the prevention of corruption, giving priority, in accordance with the external supervisory institution, in the most sensitive areas, to the objective that the Board of Auditors, within its scope, may make proposals on regulatory or internal instruments for the prevention of corruption. These last two motions for resolutions of our group are linked to the new powers of the Board of Auditors, after the adoption of Law 8/2015 on August 7, through which a new section is created in the Board of Auditors that will serve to prevent corruption. And that amendment of the law – which you also referred to – will serve to create this new section and provide new competences for the Board of Auditors, since through its scope of work through the controls they carry out themselves they are already able to detect precisely the most sensitive points and those areas that we say may have more risk of improper actions. And on the other hand of the opposition groups, which have presented various motions for resolutions, we chose to collect some of each of the political groups. Thus, we collect the proposal made by the Alternative Galga de Left, which calls for increasing the framework for collaboration with municipal institutions between the municipal institutions and the Galician Union, and which is geared towards ensuring the execution of interterritorial compensation funds. Even so, as I had already explained to the spokesman of the Socialist Party, we also collected one of his motions for resolution. We gather all these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, with the aim of improving information and transparency, which will undoubtedly affect positively the control and management of public resources. The new powers of the Board of Auditors granted by the recent regulatory change are going to be an effective tool for the prevention of corruption. Other groups did not bet on supporting the adoption of this regulatory change, which we suppose is because they really don't believe. We are convinced that it will be an effective instrument. And with regard to the different interventions made by the different political groups regarding those detected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u16	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u17	...–Filled, Madam President—with regard to this shifted expenditure, tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you can compare the various reports evacuated by the Board of Auditors over the years and each time it has declined year after year that amount of expenditure shifted. And the most important thing is that that amount of expenditure shifted is collected in an accountancy account that does not affect the deficit compliance figures. The most important thing is that the debt of the Autonomous Community of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u19	...it's below average...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u21	...of the increase of the rest of the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u23	...and Galician solvency is guaranteed. Nothing else, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Vote for the Opinion and motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u24	We are voting on the ruling and motions for resolutions adopted by the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee of the Board of Auditors. We shut the doors. We begin with the vote on the dictame, which recommends the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2013. Voting of the Ditame issued by the Non-Lexislative Standing Commission for Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the Audit Reports of the Public Sector of Galicia corresponding to the 2014 and 2015 work plans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u25	And then we vote on the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission from 1 to 13. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Excuse me, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u26	If I didn't get it wrong, you said 1 to 10. I mean, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u27	No, from 1 to 13, all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u28	All of them? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u29	If you don't ask me for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u30	Okay. We call for a separate vote. To the BNG, in particular, it goes that this is all in a block, but from 1 to 4; that is to say, we are voting from 1 to 4, and then the rest in another vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u31	Well, if you think so, then we shall first vote on the motions for resolutions from 1 to 4. Voting of motions for resolutions from 1 to 4 adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the Public Sector Audit Reports of Galicia corresponding to the 2014 and 2015 work plans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 2; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u32	And then we vote on the proposals from 5 to 13. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado asks for the floor.]] We are voting, Mr. Beiras. Voting of motions for resolutions from 5 to 13 adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the Audit Reports of the Public Sector of Galicia corresponding to the 2014 and 2015 work plans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u33	It's just that you can't ask me to speak when the vote has begun. Tell me what you want the word for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u34	I don't understand how we're voting, and then I asked for an explanation. Because if there are motions for resolutions pending to vote, I do not understand how the vote will first be put to the vote, which naturally goes from box to box with most of the PP going forward. And then what is the point of voting on motions for resolutions if you are already voting on it? I don't understand. Maybe I'm an idiot or I don't know about these things, but obviously I don't understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u35	Mr Beiras, it has been proposed from the first moment that the general account should be voted on first and then the motions for resolutions adopted in committee. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think it's all right, but then in the Commission you could comment on it. It has nothing to do with the general account or the proposals for recommendation adopted by the Commission. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So, Mr. Beers, it's not the time to discuss it, it's the time to discuss it in the Commission. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we continue with the second of the agenda items. Debate on the proposal for a law of popular legislative initiative on the right to knowledge and contemplation of the work of Castelao by the people of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u36	For the presentation and defense of the bill has the word Mrs. Maria do Pilar García Negro, to whom I ask to approach the rostrum of speakers. Mr. Vice President, I beg you to accompany Mrs. García Negro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u37	We said yesterday that the Galician Parliament should promote the declaration of ‘good of cultural interest’ for the whole of the work of Castelao: graphic, pictorial, literary, newspaper, doctrinal, essay, etc.; we demanded that the entire artistic background of Castelao might be admirable and visible in its integrity; we ask for massive editions of its written and plastic work. Finally, we called for a firm commitment by the Italian Executive to socialization of the necessary knowledge and dissemination of the entire work of the compatriot who best represented all the Greeks in the 20th century. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, it was sixteen years ago, exactly on October 14, 1999. The initiative that contained these demands was unanimously approved but suffered what we could call "syndrome of so many non-law proposals", the sleep of the righteous, in the documentary archive of this House. This happened because that statement as ‘good of cultural interest’ did not result from the opening of the corresponding protection files that would give it effect. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to be once again in this court to the term entrusted by the Commission to the promotion of this popular legislative initiative to order its presentation and defence. She's coming down for over 11,000 signatures collected across Galicia. This collective voice attests to this kindness of social support which is often claimed as a guarantee of the partisan positions, and I am sure that all of you will appreciate it. I think they'll also agree with two principles that I want to remember. The first is the value of history as a fundamental food of collective self-esteem. You can hardly love or value what you don't know. And in the case we're dealing with, we're talking about a massive ignorance about the contemporary Galician personality that most contributed to the conformation of the Greek social consciousness and which best represented, in all branches of its production, our being as a singular people. The second principle clearly adheres to the modern conception of national culture. She is not satisfied with the mention of protocoling, with the ephemeride volus, with the nominal recognition that obvious the importance of those who pay homage. If Castelao is as important as to name the high winners that the Union gives annually, we demonstrate with practical facts, with concrete policies to disseminate its work, why it is so important, why its name comes up with such a burden of symbolic legitimation. On the contrary, we're handling a significant hiding its meaning. Let us therefore ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, who it is, who it is, Castelao. And they conceal what they might consider impertinence of the question. We're talking about a first partner of the Brotherhood of Speech, whose centenary we'll celebrate next year. The Brothers who, gathered in the city of Lugo in November 1918, approve and publish the manifesto of the First Nationalist Assembly, addressed to the Greek people, and proclaim the aesthetic sovereignty of the Greek nation, in line with the definition of the political problems and powers of the Greek power. We are talking about the multifaceted artist who shines in the drawing of mass vocation, in the illustration of books, in the painting of great format, in the vanguard that brings together new techniques and aesthetic perspectives; in the humorist and critical cartoonist, who has left us an unbeatable portrait of us in so many prints and cartoons; in the imposing witness of the suffering of Welsh in their war albums: Galiza martyr, Atila in Galicia and Milicianos. As we speak of the artist who by his drawings deserved to be appointed honorary president of the World Black Society Federation. Or that strengthened the Workers' Brotherhood in Cuba, above all racial considerations. We're talking about the professional writer who left us jewelry like a glass eye, things, the two of us always, Recrinco or the old ones shouldn't fall in love. We're talking about the thinker that makes up that book of books that is always in Galicia, where we concentrate the reasons for our historical becoming, the restoration of our consciousness as Greeks and the right to a future as a people. We are talking about the speaker, the member of the Galician Party who represented us in the Second Republic Courts, and as minister in the Government in exile, chaired by José Giral. We're talking about the Greek people who were concerned about rescuing the plebiscite statute on June 28, 1936 and who were able to take a parliamentary position at the Courts session held in Monserrat on February 1, 1938. Thanks to that management, ladies and gentlemen, there is this Parliament or the Union itself today. Finally, we speak of someone who dedicated his adult life to signifying us and defending us as a people, using all his talents in the task of portraying us as a society with specific problems and needs that did not attach to the so-called general interests of the state, and who did it always uncomplexly, in an historical moment like what he lived, who met three terrible war tragedies: the First World War, the Spanish Civil War and the Second World War. All this wealth, lords, all this patriotic surrender, a protein and dense work, of more than thirty years of his life, deserves to be known, judged and interpreted by his descendants, by us, the Greeks and the Greeks of today, for it is a work laden with future that questions us at every step in the great conflicts of our time. That's why we ask that the Galician Union be involved in cataloguing and disseminating all its artistic production, which reaches thousands of pieces. That she, this work, has a space of dimensions and nature appropriate to her integral contemplation. May Galicia see her canvas The last lesson of the master, detained in Buenos Aires. That in teaching, and across, he studies and spreads his figure in all his wealth and fertility. May the media of public ownership, as well as all possible channels of dissemination on social networks, pay attention to the dissemination of their work. To arrange for all parties, persons and institutions to restore and signal spaces related to the life of Castelao. In short, we want the Galician Union, in the use of its powers of government and mandated by this Parliament, to assert its legitimate authority for its involvement, and of the Greek public authorities in general, in such a necessary work of historical Greek memory and right to contemplation and to enjoy such a rich and attractive work as it emerged in our legacy. The selection of Castelao as a dedicated dedicated to the next day of Welsh art by decision of the Royal Galaga Academy of Fine Arts, will certainly be a very good opportunity to celebrate it with facts, and not only with expirable reverence. Ladies and gentlemen, the remains of Castelao remained at the Greek Pantheon of the Chacarita cemetery in Buenos Aires for 34 years. In 1984 they were moved to this city, to San Domingos de Bonaval, today again under ecclesiastical dependence. "We don't let our dead die," asked Eduardo Blanco Love. This second funeral of Castelao didn't apply to him to approach the people to whom he devoted all his efforts, but to petrify his memory, preventing dialogue with our present and forgetting the modernity of his statement: "I've always drawn in Greek, I always write in Greek, and, if you take away what is in Greek and human in my work, there would be nothing left of it." In our hand, ladies and gentlemen, you are knowing, valuing and disseminating this work, returning it to the people you represent so well. Let's not make Castelao the victim of his own cartoons. If you don't have to be patrimonialized by anyone, as you've often repeated, you get to know, you get out massively uncensored, you allow yourself to value it and judge it freely, as you often see cultures that are loved by themselves and interact constantly with their main components. In this respect, I have just defended the popular legislative initiative. If the vote of all and you all sanction it favorably, we'll put ourselves not at a point of arrival, but at a point of departure to look at the mirrors that have historically built us and that help us understand ourselves and improve our fortune as a people. Our right to be full-time Greeks and Greeks, not in part-time or under permission from outside powers and above ourselves. Castelao, ladies and gentlemen, must not have an expiry date, as the geniuses or celebrities that the state also commemorates with our money, with German money. That's the only way we'll stop using his name in vain, only so we'll be worthy heirs of whom he thought and always worked in Galicia. From Rianxo to Buenos Aires, from Pontevedra to Madrid, from the USSR to New York, from Havana to Paris, but always in Galicia. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. They collaborate, so I ask you, to conjure up that historic Paulus that has marked us, that the main right granted to us was to ignore ourselves or to turn our culture into a tanatorium, as the Castile itself intuitably intruded. He writes, Castelao, in 1941: "When I arrived in Bos Aires they sat me in a chair, covered me with a fanal and told me it was a symbol. I soon understood that the chair was a coffin, the fanal was a grave and I was the dead Castile. They compared me to Curros and Rosalía, and maybe that's why they didn't even think he was alive. I was invited to make myself dead, to see, to hear and to shut up, because in this way I would receive many honours. But it happened that I didn't want to die inside a fan, stuck in a pneumatic bell, because I still have a lot to do and a lot more to say." Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, Castile has a lot to show us, a lot to teach us, a lot to illustrate. Let's make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u38	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. García Negro. You may remain on the scene until the end of the debate. Round of parliamentary groups. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Carmen Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u39	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. Welcome to the guests you're upstairs and thank you very much for the appearance of Mrs. Pilar. The memory of a country is understood as the elaboration that a group or society makes of its past around tradition, culture, historical memory or fundamental features that are linked to the national project. In Galicia the national memory is still a fragmented, sparked, partisan and partial memory. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, a country project if there is no collective memory that overcomes the gaps in the ethical sphere, in fact and justice in human rights, in the socio-economic divides and in the gaps in exclusive party politics. Today, in this Chamber of Parliament of Galicia, the debate takes into account the Proposal for a Popular Legislative Initiative Bill on the right to knowledge and contemplation of the work of Castelao by the people of Galicia, which has been endorsed by over 100,000 signatures. It is a wonderful opportunity to reflect on the importance that this figure has for all of us, all of the Greeks, and to take the measures for its position in value, disseminating and making known its work and its relevance in the political life of the time: cartoonist, essayist, narrator, theatrical author, politician, a figure of recognized prestige all over the world. The best way to pay tribute to an author or author is to pass on his teachings to the next generations, making it easier for them to contact his work and to give him the place he deserves in the textbooks of the teaching of Greek and in the history of this country. Much better tribute than the award of medals given each year to people with doubts, as in the case of Álvarez Cascos, who received it in the year 2003, in the midst of protests that, despite the police cordon, met the Praza do Obratoiro. I don't know if they remember who was, by then, Spain's Minister of Development, Mr. Cascos, and as such, the worst manager, the liar who deceived us with all the lies that surrounded the sinking of the Prestige. An honor for Cascos to receive the medal, an outrage and a ridicule to the memory of Castelao and the people of Greece. Aldraghe also received by Galicia bilingual, an organization subsidized by the Galician Union, a collective, therefore, very close to the PP and which through the mouth of its president, Gloria Lago, a ethnic racist tale Xenophobic to Castelao in the context of the reactions that sparked the first speech of the new Borbón in 2014, in which I quoted Castile, and I have no news today that no representative of this government had been positioned against these declarations that cause illegality. This data shows the rejection, mistrust and ignorance that some ideological groups feel for this illustrious Greek, which contrasts with the treatment given to Camilo José Cela, versus censor, a writer born in Galicia but who did not write a single word in the language, and boasted of it by praising his anti-nationalist idea. The ideal and the demands of Castelao continue to be uncomfortable for those who hold power in the state and in the Union. Castelao, ladies and gentlemen, was a nationalist; he was a Republican; a free-thinking Democrat who in 1936 reached the seat of deputy of the Republican Courts with the largest number of Pontevedra suffrages, and, as a committed and coherent Democrat, supported republican legitimacy, which earned him exile, where in 1946 he accepted the position of minister of the Government of the Republic. Nationalist and Republican, yes, lords, but he was Castelao above all a lover of Galicia, of the land, of the customs, of the people. Castelao was mostly a Galeguist concerned about the freedom and equality of the Greek people, centered on the most disadvantaged classes and the forgetfulness that this country has always suffered. And thus, in 1920 founded the magazine Nous, the origin of the Generation Nous, which brought together intellectuals of different ideological orientations, but with a common objective that linked them in the search for universalization and modernization of the literature in Greek. "Censorship: action to examine a work intended for the public by suppressing or modifying" – hiding, I would say – "the part which does not fit certain political, moral or religious approaches to determine whether or not to publish or exhibit a work. A practice of very frequent censorship in the totalitarian regimes and in the hierarchy of the Catholic Church: burning books, persecution of intellectuals, the famous index of books forbidden under the penalty of excommunication of the Church; censorship that this government today exercises for ideological reasons – with dissimulation, but with force – with the figure and work of this badge personal of our culture and history, how to transfer its remains from the Chacarita cemetery to the Pantheon of Galegos Ilustres – as well explained by the rapporteur before – in Santo Domingo de Bonaval, which I have subjected to a new burial of the artist and without effect the declaration that was approved unanimously in this Parliament to declare BIC all its work, in addition to any object in the teaching of Greek. To say it is passing – I have little time, though I thought it was less – is not well known in what state of conservation is found in the work of Castile. And with regard to this matter, apart from proposing that if you restore your house to Rianxo and use it as a museum, I would also propose to use the useless Gaiás as the house of Castelao. It would be a measure that would give it content, that would dignify it; it would bestow dignity upon this controversial building where itself and strangers could enjoy the contemplation and delight of the work of this prolific artist. Castle, ladies and gentlemen, along with Rosalía, is the most worthy and important guest in contemporary Greek history, and it belongs to no one exclusively; it belongs to everyone, and to you too. Its unconformist and republican ideal cannot be, it must not be, the stick in the wheel that makes the PP reject this initiative, endorsed by 11,000 signatures that represent a huge part of Greek citizenship. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u41	"I am a loyal Greek, a patriot who loves his Earth, who wants to live for her and who will die with his name in his lips. I have fought for the well-being and dignity of my people, and now I want to see the ancestors of the dead fulfilled. And so that there is no doubt as to who the dead are, I wanted to tell them all; but they are countless and innumerable, although their memory can be realized in figures that we all carry in our heart: Antolín Faraldo, Rosalía de Castro, Curros Enriquez, Alfredo Brañas, Alexandro Boveda... nothing more." With these words, with which Castelao finished his intervention at the reception held by the Centre of Buenos Aires on August 18, 1940, we want not only to give voice to Castelao but also to welcome and greet the commission that promotes this ILP, which today brings the debate the right to know and contemplate the work of Castelao by the people of Greece. And if I may be allowed to be present, I also welcome Pilar García Negro, a great scholar of the work of Castelao and a person I so much appreciate. We also bless that this initiative that aims to disseminate the work of Castelao comes here today also from the hands of cultural entities, social entities, which are doing an important job of disseminating the figure of Castelao. And the fact in itself of proposing the debate this popular legislative initiative has led to the fact that in many places in our country there was activity and a social debate about the situation in which the figure, legacy and the dissemination of a personality so important to our country; a personality that we have not only said but exists as a sort of general agreement in which it is one of the most relevant personalities of 20th century Galician: German, universal, defender of social rights, national rights, democracy and public freedoms. And also since the BNG we share that the relevance of honoring his figure goes beyond that, to which we are doing a work to dignify and to know our history. I understand that today no one will be surprised that the Galego Nationalist Block says it will support the consideration of this ILP, because we understand that, by adopting and raising the rank of law the right to know the work of Castelao, we are also recognizing its figure, its importance, and breaking a policy that we believe is an erratic policy. There is one argument, which is explained in this explanatory statement, that we believe it to be an important fundamental argument for the consideration of this ILP, and it is the need to overcome the neglect that Galicia's history, our own history, has of cultural institutions, of teaching, of the media themselves in this country. Of course, overcoming this serious deficiency that our country has would mean that we take more consciousness of ourselves, that we take, and that we also had a perspective to analyze what is happening right now and that we therefore have and overcome many of the problems that we collectively have as a people. The BNG therefore supports an initiative, this initiative, which goes beyond its own figure and which is a recognition of all those people who devoted all their lives to defending our language, our culture, our country and defending democratic rights; a work in which, modestly, we have done our work since the Galician Nationalist Block, and in particular as regards the figure of Castelao, it was mentioned here that in the year 2000 this House first recognizes that its work deserves to be declared well of cultural interest. Later, between the years 2005 and 2009 it will be promoted that his house is declared well of cultural interest and that the cataloguing of his work will begin, if well it is done in an inconclusive way. And it seems relevant to us that this catalog had not been published in the Official Journal of Galicia, so that it would have the protection that the law of the present estate would give to that publication. In 2010, we also promoted another agreement in this House that also suffers from this non-lawful proposition syndrome of this Parliament, in which BIC was requested for the whole of the work of Castelao, taking into account its facets as political, essayist, cartoonist and literary; a large exhibition that had shown the funds of Castelao, the necessary management with the Deputation and the Museum of Pontevedra so that all the funds were exposed to its integrity, if it promoted the knowledge of the graphic, literary and essayic work through the edition of significant schools, if it collaborated with the cultural and institutional fabric to take forward initiatives to promote the dissemination and knowledge of the life and work of Castelao, or if it ensured access to the cataloguation of the work of Castao to the whole of the citizenry and to the personal researcher. We are in 2015 and it is evident that all these points, one by one, have been completely ignored and unmet by those who are at this moment in Galician Union. In any case, we believe that there are outstanding arguments and reasons for weight to approve this popular legislative initiative, which only wants Castile to reach the whole world without censorship and manipulation, which is a way of honoring its work as well. We believe that Galicia has a debt to Castelao and that the best way to honor the memory of those who have worked in this country's defense is, of course, to keep his work alive and to spread his work and his idea, because we understand that from his work and his idea we also learn very interesting lessons for today's politics and to understand what is happening to us right now. Let me do it through some quotes from Castelao: "There is more land with trees in the mountains than a state with gold in the banks." "The day we know what a tree is worth, that day we won't have to emigrate." "The cow is the symbol of peace." "Our cow has the mangrove in Galicia and the ceilings in Madrid." "What doesn't feed a cow has no right to muzzle." Fishing in Galicia will be clouded again when it resumes the collectiveist ways of our marine tradition. "Whatever you want, play life in the sea." And there's a text that seems to me that today, after the elections in Catalonia, in which there is clearly an independent majority, sovereignist, who is claiming Catalonia's right to have its own state, it would have to read; it's a quote of the year where Castelao clearly exposes its position on this issue. He says, "Here's a glass question that I'm going to deal with today with rude frankness and absolute sincerity. The Spanish state has no basis that can truly be called a national, like not the desire of empire that survives in some regions. Spain is not unique and indivisible, as it is usually said, because it is multinational and therefore it must not be unique and indivisible its public power, and that other joke that comes calling national sovereignty. Our movement is essentially based on an aspiration for freedom, but the freedom that is recognised to man in general, to man in abstract, does not satisfy our aspirations, because we are not abstract beings, we are concrete men, rooted in a national reality. That's why we want freedom, not only as human beings, but as Greek men, because we wouldn't be men without being Greeks, how Basques wouldn't be men without being Basques or how Catalans wouldn't be men without being Catalans, and no one can be man without really being what it is." I believe that many conclusions are drawn from this brief quote about the debates we are still having in the country. And, in any case, as one of the techniques that best dominated Castelao was the technique of humor, I didn't want to finish today without making a humorous quote that the Castlao himself put in the Always in Galicia, and specifically in the Adro and said, "Brothers, run away from the fools. Don't get close to them because they can steal something from you and pass on to you their nonsense. Let them walk, talk, dance and grow up in their world. And if any fool becomes an authority, don't be amazed, because they're things of the system we fight and the times we're going to live." I think it's obvious that Castelao was a smart person, that Castelao was a man who always defended this country and that behind his work there is, of course, a work that is a collective work, which represents a movement in favor of Galicia's defense of interests. We here today expect your figure, which is a fundamental figure for this country, to take at least one step forward in repairing so much ignorance and repairing, by administrations or by autonomic power, an attempt to appropriate what your figure was. We want a castle without manipulation, without censorship, and we believe that considering this ILP can be an important step forward in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Beiras Torrado has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u43	On my way, President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, our most cordial and enthusiastic congratulations to the commission promoter of this popular legislative initiative; congratulations for the work done; congratulations for coming here and very special congratulations to your spokesperson, who has played a role here for a few moments, the defense of this initiative, Professor Pilar García Negro. It is clear that we cannot add anything about the figure of Castile that can not even improve the appearance and diagnosis of its personality and the evaluation of what it represents and should represent in a scattered and widespread manner in the social consciousness of the citizenship of Welsh the figure of Castile, in all its various dimensions and facials. That's why I'm going to limit myself above all to giving the floor here to the castle itself, to speak for us. First: "If on the dawn of this day we could fly above our Earth and walk it in all directions, we would attend the wonder of a single morning. From the plains of Lugo, intrusion of bidders, to the rivers of Pontevedra, orlads of pine trees; from the wells of Mine and the mountain gorge of Sil, to the bridge of Ourense, where the waters of both rivers are combed; or from the banks of the brave coast of the Coruña, where the sea weaves cassettes of Camarinas, to the short mountain of Santa Tegra, which overcomes with its shadow the mountains of Portugal, everywhere comes a dawn of horror" – this famous speech. The day you refer to, of course, is the 25th of July, Galician Day, by then the day of the Galician Country Day. This text is the piece of speech with which I myself, on January 31, 1990, opened my intervention, on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, in the investment debate by Manuel Fraga Iribarne as President of the Board. And it was time that the BNG had gone from having a single representative to having a parliamentary group of 6 minus 1; 6 obtained by counting the votes and the election board's decision – specifically in the province of Ourense – and 5 after 1 was spread – not stolen – at the highest judicial level. And in that group was Professor Pilar García Negro, who was, from the very beginning, a Member who gave absolute honor to what must be, precisely, one or a representative of the people of Greece: absolutely loyal to the popular classes, loyal to cultural tradition, both popular and cult, loyal to tradition in the sense that Spanish spoke of tradition – not in the sense of reactionary traditionalism, and therefore representing the whole trajectory of the existence of a thing, of a social and cultural reality in history called the people of Galicia, the Greek nation, which had existed before the Romans arrived here, and that is why they called it Gallaecia, and Gallaecos to their inhabitants – and, above all, loyal to something that must always be a commitment made by whom they wanted to be representative and pedagogy. And to do pedagogy means to study before and to know the country, to know its people, to know not only its symbols, but also to know those who have forged translation in ideological-political rational terms of what so many others, by alienation, still today are not able to understand: who are we?, where did we come from? And, therefore, if we are Greeks, it is not simply because we are in a geographic location, in a territory called Galicia, but primarily because we are part of a "tribe" – between quotes – of a part of a people, who was already defined as a Greek in the second century before Christ, and from there on. This is a work done in your commitment to the country by Pilar García Negro over all the years that you have been a Member, and I therefore find it absolutely consistent that it is now the person who defends this popular legislative initiative, which, as it is logical, we are going to support without further delay. And on the other hand, this: "If I were author, I would write a piece in two lances. The opening would last for ten minutes no more" – his reading I think it will last less, fortunately, to adjust to time –: "Lance first: Raise the cloth and a village cut appears" –cut in the very sense of the Welshman, the cut of the cows clear!–. There's a dead cow on top of the trunk. Around the cow is an old lady, an old woman, a young girl, two beautiful girls, an old petruit and three blonde children. Everyone weeps at the thread and wipes their eyes with their hands. They're all crying and saying sad things that make them laugh, called gossipers of peasants, anxious and greedy people, who think that the death of a cow is a great misfortune. The crying must have a funny shock, so they burst out of laughter those in the chairyard. And when they get tired of laughing at the gentlemen, they'll put the handkerchief down." "Lance second: Raise your handkerchief and appear an elegant stratum, adorned with much lordship. Above a table of broken feet of bronze, there's a silver tray, and above the tray there's a pillow in Damascus, and above the pillow there's a dead little chair. The dead bitch will look like a snowflake. Around him cries a fidalgona and two new fidalguinas. They all cry and dry their tears with lace cloths. They're all saying, one by one, the same nonsense the peasants said in front of the dead cow, the sad words that make a bitch laugh because the death of a bitch isn't so much. And when the people in the henhouse make you laugh, they'll put the handkerchief down pretty well." I think this is the perfect portrait of the class structure of two opposing cultures. Of course, this is written in the 1920s. The first edition of Things was published in Home in 1926, a book first. The second book already by the editorial We, in 1929, and until 1934, was not made the first full edition, together, in a single volume, of the first and second books. This is the beginning, the beginning, the first episode, of the second book of Things. Well, then, it was only the peasant and marine people who were the real people of work in our country, as Rosalía had said in the 19th century, because the working population in the secondary sector represented 7%, what would be called the industrial sector. That's the dimension that the proletariat worker could have at most in Galicia. So we have a print that perfectly reflects the contrast and the antithetic dialectic between cultures, classes and, besides, linguistically; this kind of phenomenon of internal racism that still continues to characterize the attitudes of Galician internal oligarchies towards all and which print policies. This print today would be worth moving: there isn't a cow dead, there's a cattle farm; there's no two blonde boys, or three blonde children, there's no children in the villages anymore; there's no two pretty girls, the pretty girls will be looking for life in Germany again, or God knows where; and, of course, the young ladies and gentlemen who cry for the death of a "challenge" – what do they now call, " pets?" truth?– because they're mutatis mutandis, those who refuse to do what they had to do from political power so that at once the extermination of farmers, of the peasant Galicia and therefore the death of the gainful farms. It's Vigilant Castile, absolutely Vigilant. I trust that if this is approved, if the People's Party, the People's Group, takes into consideration, if it has the magnanimity to support an initiative that simply refers to honoring the Castile – the Medals – then we can start to get things, the texts of Things, these delicious texts of Things, these shuddering texts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u44	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u45	...are actually actively disseminated to start in the system of teaching in Greece that they worry less than they learn English to be able to read in their day the Financial Times or to speak in their language to the plutocratic masters of the universe and that, instead, the boys and girls of 8 or 9 years old, when they read this text, say, "It's from Castile", like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u47	...–Please, 30 seconds–
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u48	Look what's going on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u49	...when I was still young and worked in Vigo, in the early 1960s, and Berbés' women, the Berbés' fishers, still said, "This is life's stuff for Castile."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u50	Socialist Group, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u51	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, today we are debating a popular legislative initiative on the right to knowledge and contemplation of the work of Castelao by the Greek people, which obviously seems unquestionable given the relevance of the figure and the work of a person like Alfonso Daniel Rodríguez Castelao. I would like to begin by thanking and congratulating all the members of the Socialist Group on this initiative for the work done and bringing here this proposal that seeks to contribute to the claim and empowerment of the work of the legacy of Castelao, both multifaceted and that represent a fundamental figure for Galicia, both in politics, in art and in literature. The Socialist Group is going to vote in favour of the consideration of the ILP, and we hope that all groups in the House will do so too, because Castile is not the exclusive heritage of anyone, but is the heritage of all the Greeks and the Greeks. It is clear that, as the promoters of this initiative denounce, the figure of Castelao suffered by the Goberno da Junta de Galicia an intentional abandonment of everything that means his legacy and his work. It is obvious that for the Government of the People's Party it has always been an uncomfortable figure; there has always been an attempt to banalize its figure and legacy; but, nevertheless, it cannot hide its relevance, and suffices as an example the transfer of its remains and burial in the Pantheon of the Illustrian Galleys or the realization of the Castelao medals. But behind this, what lies behind is a disillusionment as to his work and his legacy, despite the fact that it was declared good of cultural interest, the same thing that happened with those Greeks who, like Castelao, fought for Galicia at a crucial time in Spain's contemporary history and suffered the consequences of the Civil War, such as Jaime Quintanilla, Casares Quiroga or Alexandre Bóveda, among others. Political, writer, painter, doctor and cartoonist. Castelao – as Neira Vilas had said – has spoken, has written, has painted, has organized and even sang in the defense of his country and his historical and cultural personality; and has always been on the side of the leftovers, the leftovers and the exploited. He strongly denounced the evil caciquism and showed with tenderness and simplicity to poor children and children, children of sailors and peasants. From Castelao we can speak from many perspectives for being multifaceted, but again quoting Neira Vilas, in short, Castelao is first and foremost a politician in the noblest and highest sense of this word. And he was also one of the most authentic and most honest politicians in our country. All that Castelao did with the various performances and the various offices he did was directed to the same cause, to Galicia's claim. In it they went together thought and action, as they were life and work, was an integral Greek. The patriotism of Castelao was nourished by the love of Galicia, but also by solidarity with its people and, above all, with the most forgotten. He put out a voice to those who had no voice. I could talk about the importance of his artistic and literary work, but I don't want to be repetitive and I don't think it's necessary, everyone knows it. So here, at the headquarters of the Galician Parliament, I would like to recall the political trajectory of Castelao, the creation of the Galician Party and the election as a Member in the Constitutional Courts of the Second Republic, no. 31; and also his election as a Member in the 1936 Courts, on the lists of the People's Front. It is important to recall facts such as the transfer to Madrid in 1936 of the results of the plebiscite of the Italian Autonomy Statute. And we must remember that Castelao was the greatest promoter and president of the Council of Galicia, created in 1944 in Montevideo, who intended to bring together the Greek Members in exile to provide Galicia with a political body and to form a representative of Galicia among the republican institutions in exile. It should also be recalled that in 1945 he participated in the meeting of the Courts of the Republic in Mexico and that in 1946 he was appointed Minister of Government of José Giral. Castile worked for Galicia without calm, as a cartoonist, painter, writer, man and integral patriot; no fissures, no stains in his conduct, no doubles and no other north than the future of his country and his people. He used the means he had, the tools he had by hand, and all for the same purpose: to claim Galicia. The socialists of Galicia also claimed to be heirs of Castelao. In fact, every year on Galician Day we pay tribute to him in his hometown of Rianxo, since beyond some discrepancies with some parts of his thinking, such as nationalism and self-determination, it must be said that he was a full democrat, a militant anti-fascist and an indisputable progressive. Even on the ground of politics, Castelao and the Galician Party were allies of Spanish socialism during the Republic, the Civil War and the post-war period. It is indisputable that Castelao was a man of left-wing and also pronounced himself in favour of the federal formula for the territorial and political artulation of Spain. This is done which demonstrates the vigil of the discourse of Castelao in many of the problems that Spain and Galicia are currently having. Castelao is undoubtedly one of those exemplary galleys in which we all must recognize and in which we must all be recognized. And by focusing on the consideration of this bill, as I said, the Socialist Group is of great interest to the ideas discussed here, because they contribute to spreading and valuing their legacy. Anyway, we also want to make it clear that the painting referred to in article 4, "The Master's Last Lesson", is an inventory at the Galician Centre in Bos Aires. And although we share the relevance and interest of this work, we must remember that it is subject to the legislation of third countries, so we recommend due caution. It also seems very interesting to us to define a museum space in which to expose the plastic work of Castelao; especially considering the heritage that is not exposed, for example, what owns the extinct savings boxes and on which we have already presented initiatives in this House. At this point, too, it seems prudent to point out, in order to take into account the subsequent processing, that much of the artistic heritage of Castelao is exposed in other museums, as is the case of the Museum of Pontevedra, which, as you know, has a vast concentration of the work, which has more than 2,000 graphic pieces of the politician, writer, painter, doctor and painter. Anyway, we believe that this museum project, yet to be defined, should serve to spread its work, which in addition – as we will then refer and as the text requests – should be digitized as a whole. A first deficiency that would solve the creation of this museum space would, of course, be related to the cataloguing and the strict and necessary preservation of this cultural heritage, unusual and extraordinary. It must be inventoryed, restored and submitted to preventive conservation programmes. Secondly, and given an even more remarkable second necessity, the organizational model must appeal to a museumological action committed to understanding and dissemination of heritage. According to the principles of the new museum, in parallel with the relevance given to the conservation, study and possible collection of the legacy, we must remember what was supposed to be essential service to society. The museum space must acquire and preserve the work of Castelao, but also, as it is collected in the definition of the museum in force defined at the 2007 Vienna Conference, it must be communicated and presented for the purposes of education, study and delight the legacy of one of our most distinguished and exemplary authors, artists, politicians and citizens. On the other hand, we want to welcome this initiative and highlight something that seems fundamental to us, because we also think about how the new technological and digital scenario presents new opportunities; even if we are aware that this also involves many challenges, such as the monumental work of organization and systematization demanded by any project of this nature or, from a material point of view, the necessary technological infrastructure. The inclusion of digitisation has become one of the priorities of cultural policies. Every day we know new digitization projects carried out in the four corners of the world. In this sense there are different cultural institutions – especially archives, libraries and museums – that already work in our country in this field. But it is now precisely when the Union must fully take over the projects, such as the one it presents today in due course, because they are basic parts of its cultural policies. The Internet has revolutionized the way of spreading or creating culture, and we cannot and must not neglect this new space of action. We must not conceive digitization just as a conservation and dissemination tool, but also as an integral program with an active role in knowledge management. Thus, the project that is presented belongs to the scope of digitization, but also to the scope of virtualization of services, to make the most of the possibilities that the Internet offers us today. The most effective and effective projects to provide social information and culture are those resulting from spaces for collaboration and exchange. And so we think it would be fundamental and very beneficial to involve our cultural and academic institutions. So, starting from a necessary network work, digitization will only be a technique that will serve us to achieve a more important goal: the translation of study policies, promotion and dissemination of culture into the digital world. Finally, to ensure that the work of Castelao is also a digital cultural heritage. The Internet is much more than a support, the Internet has an impact on the relationship between the author and his audience; it allows interaction, creates new forms of reading and interpretation, even if you see the world, the combination of languages – a particularly interesting aspect in the case of an interdisciplinary and multifaceted creator like Castelao – and facilitates relationships between interested people in the same area. One of the goals of the Galician Union must be to disseminate the cultural elements of our land and the Internet is a window suitable for doing so. That's why the projects linked to this proposal must be aimed at spreading and expanding the knowledge of the figure and work of the politician of Rianxo in an innovative and attractive format but also rigorous. Because, if I may make a quote here from Maurice Blanchot, a book that is not read is a book that does not exist. In conclusion, we consider it very important to support this initiative for two reasons: on the one hand, so it means in its deepest sense of recognition of this our odd figure; and on the other hand also by assuming a first step in the necessary creation of public cultural policies, policies that recognize access to Greek heritage and cultural goods as a cultural right of citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u52	You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Agustín Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also greet the people who have attended this debate since the public stands, and especially the promoters of this popular legislative initiative. An initiative that brings back the debate in this Parliament the figure of Castelao, this time brought by the promoters and presented here by Mrs García Negro, to whom we also greet and welcome this house back to where so many lessons have been given from this same forum since today we have had the honour to listen to it. With regard to this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, I will not insist on what has already been mentioned here and what is already referred to on the initiative itself in relation to the figure and the work of Castelao, which I subscribe entirely. But if I'm here, it's to position the Popular Group in relation to the request for consideration. And in that regard, I have to say that, in deep respect and gratitude for the initiative and the work of its promoters, we disagree both with the concept of the initiative and the material part that sustains it. As far as the concept is concerned, we have to underline that we feel that it is not right to intend to spread the thought of anyone through the procedure of a law. In addition to that it does not sound very well, that it brings unwanted connotations, in addition to that the officialization of thought could pose problems of hierarchy and prioritization – someone would suggest that the other neighboring persons mentioned here do not deserve the same consideration, or if they were to be given a minor consideration in the normative treatment – apart from all these considerations, we believe that trying to spread by law the thought of no one means incurring the old mistake of trying to write or predetermine history. It's true that history is memory, and the pendulum of memory often causes power to fall into the temptation to pretend to build that memory or also to eliminate it. But it's also true that no one gets into history or gets out of history by a law. It doesn't come in or out of a law because the law is nothing but expression of the majority social will of a given moment, and history is memory but collective and permanent memory. In history, in any of their perceptions – in narrative, pragmatic or realistic – that already personified Herodotus, Jenofonte or Tucides – they only have room and only remain in it those persons and those facts that by their impact on the collective consciousness form the collective memory of a people and therefore transcend the person and the work at the moment they occur. For that reason, if Castelao is in the history of Galicia – and indeed it is – it will not be because a law says so. It's in Galicia's history because – as Avelino Pousa Antelo would say – it leaves a bright rossel, a footprint, a mark that is indisputable at its pace. If Castelao is a symbol of Galicia it will not be because he says a law, it will be because his values of dignity, because his contribution to the construction of the identity of this earth is already incorporated into Galicia's collective memory. That's why we think it's not a proper procedure and we believe even that weak favor is made to Castile by claiming that a symbol like him is recognized by a law that logically does not deepen in the feeling of respect and trust that deserves all symbols, and very especially a symbol like that of Castile. But we also disagree in the material and positive part of the bill presented to this House. First of all, we disagree with the philosophy that beats in the exhibition of motives, a philosophy that shows or transmits the idea that the work and the figure of Castelao are subjected to a process of concealment or silence planned as a result of a process in which public and private institutions participate, the public and private media, and that the guilt of that circumstance corresponds to the Government of the Council of Galicia and the party that supports it. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the position of the People's Party in this respect is concerned, I must once again note that there is no purpose or desire to conceal the work of Castile; no purpose or desire for contempt, no purpose – much less – of censorship of that work. Above adscriptions or ideological affinities, we are able to value the contribution, the work and the work of those people who are part of Galicia's history. Castelao is one of those people, we recognize its singular value; we know its multiple facets and, among them, its nationalistic adscription, which we logically respect. But, having said this, I also have to say that the respect we show to Castelao also nationalist does not mean that we have to take up the defense of the nationalism of Castelao, because, logically, we do not defend the nationalism of Castelao or any other nationalism. As our position on Galicia, Spain and the relationship of the peoples of Spain is diametrically different from that of nationalism. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that we do not accept the existence of a conspiracy of the Welsh civil society to hide Castelao. That's not true because, first of all, it represents a contradiction in itself. If Castelao is part of Galicia's history it will be because Galician civil society as a whole has incorporated into its collective memory the values it represents, and that is totally incompatible with any process of concealment. But on the other hand, it also means denying evidence and denying reality, because they are multiple - I could not report them here - public, private and association demonstrations in defense and dissemination of the work of Castelao. A little example. There is a foundation that bears its name, which is doing an extraordinary work in the dissemination and dissemination of the work, including its cataloguing. There is a museum, the Museum of Pontevedra, where an important part of the work of Castelao is already deposited. All the elements that make up this work are of public access and are at the disposal of all people who want to study it and investigate it, and it is also the subject of this work of permanent publication and re-edition through the mechanisms of the Welsh publishing industry. If that means there's a conspiracy of silence about Castile, or it's very poorly done, or, of course, it's a total and absolute failure. We don't share either, ladies and gentlemen, the articulate of the law. We don't share it because it refers to issues, in cases, already solved; in others, that are under way; and in others, of dubious application at the moment. Castelao is already present in the curriculum of the Welsh educational system. The intention of creating a new museum does not seem very appropriate at the moment when there is already a museum, the one in Pontevedra, where it is deposited a very important part of its work in permanent exhibition and taking into account, in addition, that the Castile itself showed to its albacea, Rodolfo Prada, the wish that its work had been deposited in that place. Regarding the acquisition of the painting The last lesson of the master, aside from the legal problems, that painting, which was painted at the request of an association, the Association of Sons of Rianjo, in New York City, and deposited in Bos Aires by decision of who bought it, deposited in an environment of galeguity as is the centre of Galicia of Bos Aires, we understand that it is logical that it remains there. Only a situation of grave danger to that painting would justify it from an environment that both represents in the life and work of the Castile itself. And with regard to digitization and access across the network, we obviously have nothing to oppose, but if we have to underline that we live in a rule of law, and it must be nuanced that this circumstance could violate the copyrights of the heirs of Castelao, given to the Editorial Galaxy, which, on the other hand, has always shown its willingness to defend the figure of Castelao. For that reason, I announce the opposing position of the People's Party in relation to the taking into consideration. If Castelao is a symbol of Galicia, it must be a symbol of union, and it must be, as Mrs. Iglesias said, man of all and belonging to all, without affiliation or ideological differences. But the strength of a symbol must be born of respect, it must be born of trust and never of imposition. We believe that the dissemination through a law of the work and the thought of an author is the only thing that does it is to break that feeling of respect and that feeling of gratitude that the figure of Castelao deserves for all the Greeks and Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u54	Thank you very much. Replica. Mrs García Negro, representative of the Commission promoting the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u55	President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Union –missing –, Mr Vice-President of the Union –missing –, blue seats, with the colour changed since my time, indeed, of the honourable Member in this House whom someone has remembered, advisers and absent advisors except the Councillor of Culture, Mr Rodríguez, who I think he has of course to be, I must first thank the position expressed, and the interest with which they have read this proposal of law by popular legislative initiative on the right to knowledge and contemplation – underlining, knowledge and contemplation – of the work of Castelao polo polio galago, also by Ms Carmen Iglesias, the spokesperson of the Mixto Group – I agree that the best tribute to a historical personality such as Castelao naturally passes through the possibility of his knowledge–; I also value the valuable works of the work carried out by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Group of Churches, the use of the catalogue alone, and the need to use of which she has been made, the opportunity, and the use of which has already expressed. I am also grateful for the warm words and congratulations to the committee by Mr José Manuel Beiras, spokesperson for the AGE Group, and of course the expression of vote in favour of this initiative as well. Just like the one expressed by Mr. Emilio Vázquez, spokesperson for the Socialist Group, who emphasizes the need for all Greeks and Greeks today to have an opportunity of direct knowledge and not of routine repetition of an absolutely empty symbol, absolutely I want, absolutely empty, as we have no opportunity and possibility to contemplate their work. And that's where I have to deeply regret the new solitude and burial that takes place with Alfonso Daniel Castelao, expressed in the position of this House's majority group, which is, therefore, who has the key and who has the possibility that this bill by popular legislative initiative, so caressed and so backed by so many people in our country, can reach a good port. Mr. Baamonde, you know that an exposition of motives in the drafting of a law and in its final approval is perfectly modifiable and even re-replaceable by one or another agreement with the articulated, which is what goes to Mass, Mr. Baamonde, the articulate of the law. Then I am forced to raise serious questions today too, in this San Miguel which is not conducive to the personality of Castelao, serious questions, Mr Baamonde. Why are they afraid that we will follow the Galician society, the Greeks and the Greeks today, without being able to contemplate an ingenious artistic work that is enclosed in a macroship in the Crown where all the paintings, all the sheets and all the work owned by the foundations of the ancient boxes, the ancient Galician Box and the Old Caixa Caixanova? Why do we not have the possibility, since we are so modern, as in any normal museum in the civilized world – which you so defend from the Western world – of, through a monitor in any museum center, contemplating all the work that is physically not present there? This happens anywhere in the world. How come in 1999 - and it's been sixteen years - that you, the People's Group, too, and the Union at that time, sponsor this so-called Small School that I now show, Mr. Baamonde, Little School of Castile? How many lines of always in Galicia? Sky! It's really a small school. Can anyone really think that you can pick Cervantes without a line from Quixote? Or that you can cancel Beethoven without naming at least one of his symphonies? What is it, indeed... is the question of nationalism of Castelao? Oh, my God! Madía takes, Mr Baamonde, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to this nationalism of Castelao, thanks to that thought that no one has an obligation to share, but yes to know, thanks to that thought, that struggle, all his patriotic dedication, to raise the name of Galicia in Galicia itself, Spain and all the world forward, thanks to that we are standing here today. Thanks to that, ladies and gentlemen, we have paid a salary – I, who was also a member of this House at the time. [[Applause]] So, what you're asking is not unbreakable adhesions, they're not at all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u56	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u57	...no kind of critical if; not at all, Mr Baamonde, ladies and gentlemen. It's knowing him, and from knowing him we can value him and we can judge him properly. It's the knowledge for everyone we claim, not that Castelao is one of them. Castile was never from the caciques. Castelao was never of the monarchical or Republican deputies who denied the existence of Galicia and its rights as a people. Castelao was never from Ku Klux Klan, obviously he was never racist, quite the contrary, an anti-racist claim throughout his literary trajectory as well. Castile obviously could never have been those who denied Galicia's own. But the knowledge of Castelao that we want to socialize is the clearest antidote, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, against this accusation of heritageization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u58	Finish it, please, Mrs. García Negro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u59	I already conclude, Madam President, deeply regretting that historical times in our country, in our nation, in our dear Galicia, go so slow. I'm sorry to have to dedicate these last words to the Castle itself, because they are the portrait of those who are denying this modest legal possibility, a law – I already conclude, Madam President, at once - a law that is used to deliver millions and millions of old pesetas, and then to a foundation full of corruption like the Cell Foundation, converted into a public foundation. That's where the budget law works. The budget law works, Mr Baamonde, to naturally subsidize the Royal Spanish Academy, where it does work. The budget law works to bury – never better said - millions of euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. García Negro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u61	...in the City of Culture, yes. "Any Welsh institution" – not me – of Castelao that does not emerge from its own sovereignty will imply subordination, dependence and slavery." Prophetic, we're checking for the last time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u63	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u64	I ask the vice president to accompany you to the guest gallery. We continue the development of the agenda with point 2 of legislative texts. Proposal for a single reading and urgency procedure for the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration in respect of the recovery of the extraordinary payment of December 2012 to employees of the autonomous public sector of Galicia, and, where appropriate, debate and vote on the previous draft law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u65	At the meeting on 22 September 2015, the Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Board, agreed to propose to the House plenary the procedure for the single reading procedure of this bill, in the light of Article 134.1 of the Rules of Procedure. Before the vote is put to the vote, the proposal for a single reading procedure is opened for Parliament's groups to be positioned. You have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Group to Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u66	Thank you, President. I want to start by deeply regretting what just happened, deeply regretting that we have a government that denies Greek culture and that denies the people's right to know their culture and their artists and politicians, to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u67	Mrs Martínez, the debate ended on the previous point. Please focus on the debate we are now on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u68	I focus on the debate because it has a lot to do with this, it has a lot to do with what happened today in the debate on the report of the Board of Auditors; that is, a government that only looks at its particular interests, politicians and supporters, and does not look at the interests of the people, so what is allowed. And here we are allowed to present a proposal for a single read-only law for the emergency procedure. The proximity to the completion of the parliamentary mandate is an influential factor in the use of special legislative procedures. In this electoral context, the legislative techniques of procedural axillization, the special legislative procedures, for temporary reasons, have a fundamental role to play when the finalization of the legislation is approaching. In other words, the proximity of electoral processes causes governments to have an extraordinary legislative activity that is used as a pre-electoral pre-electoral pre-pan. The single reading system is entirely exceptional and is set by procedural rules as a special legislative procedure. The single reading technique is characterized by the abolition of certain procedures of the central phase of the common iter lei which logically entails a number of consequences, such as the impossibility of presenting, debating and voting amendments, which usually takes place in committee. This limitation translates into the impossibility of presenting proposals for amendment to the articulation, restriction in the exercise of the right of participation of parliamentary minorities – the possibility of negotiation and political transaction on the original text disappears. This restriction affects the legislative power of Members and Members of the opposition as regards the possibility of presenting amendments and participating in their debate and vote. And it also turns the House into a body with the only function of accepting or rejecting the legislative text proposed by the Government. It is therefore clear that the development of rules through the special procedure will result in a reduction in the possibilities of participation of opposition groups in the legislative process, so its application should be reserved for subjects or texts of little political transcendence or widely consensual between political forces. This is, therefore, a procedural technique through which Parliament intends to be given a quick response to legislative proposals which do not present great difficulties in consensualizing or agreeing to its approval. But, of course, this is not the case. We are not dealing with a minor or transcendent issue or this bill is the result of dialogue and agreement between the political forces represented in this Parliament. We're talking about a bill that aims to partially return income that has been subtracted from the workers and public workers of Greece, denying, without the possibility of debate or negotiation, either from the opposition parliamentary groups or from the legal representation of the workers and workers of the Union, the possibility of returning all the rights that have been curtailed to them. And this debate if it has a lot of political silence, since we're talking not only about the working conditions of workers and public workers but also about the quality of public services rendered. So this should have been a much more participatory debate where the Board had submitted reports based on its bill and an assessment of the current quality of public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u69	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u70	...and the opposition had the opportunity to exercise its right to amend. But I also find it unfair to deal with the emergency procedure, since the Union has been delaying for more than a year in the return of public workers' rights. In fact, this bill is just the search for a press headline in an election year, where the People's Party is suffering the greatest defeats of its history as a result of anti-social policies that it has always practiced but especially hard in this last legislation. He wants to thank the society by trying to erase with misery years of aggression and saving a little more misery for the 2016 election campaign, in which good insurance we will attend another debate on a bill so that the amount due to the 2012 extra pay is paid to the workers and workers of the Galician Union. I mean, a bill that once again leaves only propaganda and that, despite the claims of the good economic behavior of our community, continues to punish workers and public workers. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u71	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the word of Lady Land of Peace Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, one more day, we have just lived as the culture and the thought of Greek are an uncomfortable accessory to this autonomy that we have. We are also witnessing the beginning of a new episode of how this Parliament, instead of being the depositary of the sovereignty of the people of Greece, is simply becoming an decoration of a plateau, a stage, as a mere instrument for the staging of a new episode of manipulation, deception or simulation. We are facing a new episode of abuse of the use of the processing of the special single reading procedure, and in addition, in this case, also with the declaration of urgency in its handling. Of course, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group – and we have already stated it on other occasions, also in other laws that affected the same subject which we are going to discuss today, which affected basic rights of public employees – had already stated that we considered that using the special single reading procedure for this type of legal amendments was a real abuse, because it was becoming normal, in ordinary terms, a process which the regulation itself establishes as absolutely exceptional and for special cases motivated by the simplicity of the statement but not only from the quantitative point of view but, above all, from the qualitative point of view, by simplicity, in the sense of social and political relevance, which have the decisions to be taken through the rules that are subject to that type of procedure. And, of course, a norm like this which is intended to be adopted today cannot be considered of political or social simplicity by its transcendence, by the number of people it affects, by the quality of basic and fundamental remuneration rights and labour rights to which it affects. Of course, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group believes that this method which it uses again, and of what it abuses, the People's Party not only robs parliamentary groups of the possibility of democratic debate of a norm, but we could also say that it even deprives us of the right of initiative which establishes its own Rules of Procedure. Because through this method, parliamentary groups have no right to submit partial amendments or amendments to the joint to improve, even if it is only in a timely manner, the Government's initiative. But it is also anti-democratic because it robs the possibility that the persons covered by this law may, through their representatives in this Parliament, both those on this side and those on this side, formulate amendments and formulate any kind of suggestion to this rule; above all, since this rule has not even been negotiated or agreed with the legitimate representatives of its recipients and recipients. In the end, we are going to pass a law of considerable relevance which will be issued with ten days of parliamentary procedure, with two hours of debate in this Parliament, and with no more than five minutes, that the Government has sent to explain it to the representatives of the public employees at the General Negotiation Bureau. But to us, of course, it does not surprise us that attempt of opacification and concealment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u73	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u74	...by the People's Party, because – and we will discuss it later, when we talk about the content of the law – we are faced with a real mistake planned for public employees, for trade unions, who are their representatives, and for the whole of citizenship. We're dealing with a law that's propaganda fraud and what it does is to simulate an extra payback theory to public employees when in reality the only thing that's done is a partial refund of what has been stolen. We can start by saying that even the title of the rule is already a fraud, a simulation and mere propaganda. A rule that returns only 26.23 % of a wage, of an extraordinary salary, to public employees cannot be called "extraordinary in terms of the recovery of extraordinary pay".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u76	In any case, it would be "partial recovery of extraordinary pay." So we're going to vote against this method...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u78	...to process this law, because we consider it a manipulation, a deception and a simulation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u79	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u80	Good morning to all of you. If you allow me, first of all, after giving my condolences to this House for voting against the majority group nothing more and nothing less than this very large and multifaceted author, as is Castelao, because also, if you allow me, I would like to point out, Mr. Counsellor, that outside this Chamber are the workers and workers of Vodafone, who, as you know, are being affected by a new ERE which is going to be the dismissal or the loss of jobs of more than 1,300 people. I would like to take this opportunity to greet you, and also to remind you that you, as the Councillor of Fairy, can pass on to the President of the Chamber, and even to the Industry Adviser and the Labour Adviser, who, if they are well, can address these business committees to deal with a more worrying situation in our country. Having said that, indeed, we are dealing with a matter of utmost importance today; of utmost importance because, Madam President, we are talking about a process that we call – if we allow it – counter-revolutionary but constituent. We are keeping an account of what is happening from the aggressions of the economic powers that are directed by the People's Party to bring about an absolute change in this regime. And I'm clear: we are, let's say, living a constituent moment because we attend a global loss of the rights we have acquired and for the ones we have fought for, but not only the workers and workers in this country, but also, if I may, the employees and public employees in this country. You saw a real struggle against employees and public servants, treated them with little dignity, were insulted. They came to tell us that they were vague and malicious, and even the former Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez, came to say a little less that, with sneer, what was this that workers, teachers and teachers, had complained because they worked a few more hours. Little less than saying that 21 hours a week's work of a teacher and a teacher was a real luxury. A really unworthy deal. But that's why it's a deep and long debate, a debate in which the People's Party – you know it well – has invested a lot of legislative effort. They fight against officials, employees and public employees. So does the Cora Report, so did the 250 rationalization measures of Mr. Montoro, so did his Public Employment Law, so did that growth fund that would already collect the recovery of the extra pay and so they have done so since in the 2012 campaign Mr. Feijóo said they were radically against the abolition of the extra pay. But the most serious thing is that you now have this debate of depth with an article, which is Article 134, which I'm going to read and quote literally. He said this precept that it will be dealt with by means of urgency and single reading when the nature of a bill advises him or his simplicity of formulation would be permitted. Counsellor, I suppose it agrees with us that this is not or does not accommodate strict sense to what must be a procedure, a debate in single reading. He knows it perfectly and I'll tell him why. First, because it's true there was no negotiation. You formally summoned the General Negotiation Bureau on September 14, the 15th, and the 15th, without negotiation, they told you at that general table that the conditions were that you were going to collect those 48 days, or 26.23% of the extra pay, and nothing else, there was no negotiation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u81	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u82	...they had to accept that consideration. And they also told them that in the next election campaign, at the end of 2016, they had a chance to get back if it was 25 or 50 percent. But they didn't tell them that they were going to do with those sentences that have been handed down, and still not met, by the Government of this country. So neither this procedure should be of single reading, nor was there any negotiation with the General Bureau, nor is it of course an emergency procedure. They abuse employees and public employees, and this formality also reflects a way of government, its way of government, which is against people and against thousands of workers and public workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. For the Socialist Group, Mrs. Septayo Doce.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are once again faced with a symptom of a government accustomed to exercising this absolute majority in an absolutistic form, and that despite the reform of the Rules of Procedure it once again shows its true face: it regulates itself, amends the Rules of Procedure, speaks and draws up in the Journal of Sessions the intentions to improve democracy, and when they have the first opportunity after the reform of the Rules of Procedure to introduce a debate of such important law, what it does is through Article 134, which bases on the simplicity of wording in the legal text of the Rules adopted in this House and therefore subtractes the debate of this House such important issues as public service, public employment, and the debates that must be consistent with reforms that affect the public function. Well, we're, therefore, again in a cut of shapes to crop content. The law, of course, should be called the "26% Law," well away from all the offerings with which Mr. Feijóo usually adorns each of the electoral campaigns. In Ferrol, the other day in a school, in a public center, they told me they knew perfectly well, although they're not pending election dates, when they come in elections, and they said teachers from that public center that two things happen: on the one hand, the announcement of the improvement for public services and, secondly, the announcements of ships on the Navantia shipyards. These are the realities of the electoral propaganda of a People's Party that follows, despite what is falling, convinced that dignity can be hurt in this case of employees and public employees, who can play with the intelligence of employees and public employees. And, Counselor, we really regret that you are an accomplice to this game. They are bringing nothing more and nothing less than a change of law that affects permits, which affects wages, which affects not only basic but specific wages, which affects collective bargaining, which affects the Bureau of Negotiation, which affects trade union representation, which affects working days, which affects trade union rights, which affects labour rights, etc. All these questions, no doubt, do not come into the legal argument of the simplicity of the formulation. Simplicity is the simplicity of a government that continues to want to govern the coup de cédre, the blow of that decree that the Constitution only commits to cases of extraordinary urgency and necessity. The truth is, Mr. Feijóo had announced in an election campaign that he would ensure the improvement of the public service. The fact is that in the next election campaign Mr. Feijóo announced that he would not impose new cuts on public officials. And in another electoral campaign – in this case the municipal one – Mr Feijóo announced that they would recover all of the extra payment and all of the public officials. For the truth is, after the first ad, there were cuts with the measures 1/2012; with the second ad, that no new sacrifices would be required, a new cut and a new freezing of public services appeared...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u85	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u86	...and with the third announcement for the election campaign, for this upcoming election campaign, what's coming is just a preview, that we will now enter the debate, an endless return of 26%. So you are playing with dignity again, with the intelligence of the people of Greece, and we have asked for this procedure to reconsider the debate of single reading and not usurp the functions of this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo. The People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. As a previous question, I wanted to say that I don't think Castelao felt very satisfied today with the political use he has made of his figure. And now we're going to the debate. It corresponds in this turn to justify the procedure for which we have dealt with this rule, the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House in section 5a, in Article 134.1, which provides that when the nature of a bill has advised it, or its simplicity has allowed it, the plenary may agree to the processing of this project by the single reading procedure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a legislative text that cannot be simpler, since it is only the amendment of the twelfth transitional provision of Law 2/2015 of 29 April, which already provides for the recovery of staff's remuneration levels to the public service of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, already establishing a return plan that would facilitate the progressive recovery of the 2012 extra payments between the years 2015 and 2017. By then you had this measure of electoralist, when the law had been negotiating with the representatives of the workers and the public workers, it was already negotiating at the beginning of the legislation. The laws take their process, we have to actually negotiate, that negotiation process takes time and coincides when it matches. And for those who deny reality, tell you, Mrs. Sestayo, that today, this afternoon, one of the fleets that you denied in the election campaign is thrown into Vigo. Those are your lies, those are your deceptions, and those are the insults to the intelligence of the citizens you practice every single day in which you constantly talk about the deceptions in the naval sector. [[Applause]] You should explain to those people at the school that you went to visit this fleet in Vigo this afternoon. The extra payment for the month of December 2012 was abolished by the State Administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u90	...in a deep recession that Spain suffered as a result of the disastrous economic policies driven by the former Socialist Government between 2007 and 2011. The abolition of this which was obliged to comply with all public administrations. If, as you know, it was a temporary measure, accompanied by the commitment of its return, at the moment the economic situation allowed it. As you well know, the outstanding December 2012 payment is a basic salary, exclusive jurisdiction of the State. Therefore, without a legal authorization from the state, the autonomous communities could not proceed to their return. Well, Royal Decree Law 10/2015, of 11 September, so that extraordinary credits and credit supplements are granted in the State budget and other measures are taken in the field of public employment and economic stimulus, it collects among other measures, and as basic regulations, the possibility that each Administration will agree to a recovery of the extraordinary and additional payment of December 2012 for the public sector. And with this extraordinary and simple procedure we intend to comply in Galicia as soon as before the commitment to return the extra payment of December 2012, and the Greek Government took it to the first Council of the Galician Council that it could, and after that Council of Ministers it took only six days to pass this regulation. And today in Parliament we're working on it by the fastest procedure, so that in 2015, of which there are only three months left, workers and public workers can recover 25% of the 2012 extra pay, and so forward the rest of the return payments from 50% to 2016. We are going to adopt this normative text by a procedure, ladies and gentlemen, which has all the favourable reports, and I am convinced that if the House's legal services were not adjusted to the Rules of Procedure, they would inform us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u91	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u92	Please be responsible for an opposition and don't try to put a stop to it, they're using excuses from the bad payer. What happens is that they don't want to recognize that the economy is going better, that we overcome the recession, and that's why today we can recover part of the extra December 2012 payment and continue to take steps on the path of economic recovery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u93	Thank you very much. The proposal for a single reading procedure shall be put to the vote. We vote. Voting on the proposal for a single reading and urgency of the draft law, which is why an extraordinary remuneration is approved in respect of the recovery of the outstanding payment of December 2012 to employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, and, if so, debate and vote on that bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. This proposal for a single reading procedure is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u94	The debate and the vote on the text have begun. Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the bill's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today I come before this House to present the Bill, which is why an extraordinary remuneration is approved in respect of the recovery of the outstanding payment of December 2012 to employees of the autonomous public sector in Galicia. This bill is supposed to fulfill a commitment made by this government when in 2012 we had to take extraordinary measures, because we were at an extremely difficult time. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember the context in which we had to take these measures. In 2012, my predecessor in office had to start with the ungracious task of carrying out a series of reforms in public service – yes, temporary – in order to safeguard the provision of basic public services. A few months later, the current Central Government, also as a result of the profound economic crisis in which it had to govern, and because the former Executive did not take measures in time, also had to decide another temporary measure related to the field of public service: the approval, which did not eliminate, of the second extra pay of public employees in 2012. Because, ladies and gentlemen, responsible governments have to take action, some as difficult as those we had to take three years ago. But do you remember what the situation was in the year 2012? We were immersed in the year of the second recession of the biggest economic crisis in decades, with a GDP drop of more than 2%, with a loose deficit that was close to 9% and a risk premium that exceeded 600 basic points and put Spain at the edge of the rescue; unemployment reached unsustainable figures, companies closed and left their employees on the street, performed temporary ERE or reduced days and wages. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In this context it was clear that something had to be done by the Government in the field which it could act directly and chose to be responsible, they called for a temporary effort on public employees with an objective: that all the Greeks continued to shield health, education and social services despite the exceptional economic crisis we were going through. Public employees are also citizens who use these public services, so I'm convinced they understand. [[Murmurs.]] It was not the first time that public employees were asked to make an effort, because in May 2010 the Central Government, which was governed by the Socialist Party, had taken another extraordinary measure: definitely reducing the wages of public employees. As you can appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, in this economic crisis that we are leaving behind there were two models of action towards public employees: that of the Socialist Government, which eliminates 5% of the final salary, and that of the People's Party Government, which makes temporary extra payments and that public employees recover as soon as possible. I'm sure the public employees prefer the second. And since we're talking about models, this government has also prioritized the stability and quality of public employment during the crisis, rather than many other administrations. So, from the very first moment, we've been betting on stability, even though in 2009 there was an unsustainable increase in personnel and personnel expenditure that we had to assume. [[Murmurs.]] The objective was to streamline and limit the increase of troops to the strictly necessary and facilitate the professionalization of the public function. In fact, during the crisis, Galician Union was the self-government that kept its number of troops more stable – the drop was 0.6% against an average in the autonomous communities of 1.2% – and, despite the difficulties, we adopted and continued to take measures to improve the situation of public employment in Galicia. The recent adoption of the new Public Employment Act will make it possible to have a more efficient administration in order to provide better service to citizens, because one of the major concerns of this government has been and will be the maintenance of essential public services. Despite the decline in income suffered by the Autonomous Community since 2009 we have been able to shield social spending. Thanks to this effort, in the area of education Galicia it is the Autonomous Community that has most teachers per student, in the health care of more than 80% of public health workers has a stable link and the Government of Galicia has not undermined the working conditions of its interim and substitute staff. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, I would like to reiterate at parliamentary headquarters – as I have already done on more than one occasion – the recognition of the efforts made by public employees to contribute to the improvement of the economic situation and the fulfilment of commitments made in the area of fiscal consolidation, which is an essential element for the exit of the crisis. The actions were based on the efficiency and staff expenditure measures taken in the wake of Royal Decree No. 20/2012 to advance the fulfilment of the fiscal consolidation path and the objectives of budgetary stability. This was not intended to achieve a single accounting objective, or to meet a standard, but to ensure that citizens and companies are paid their benefits, grants and contracts; not to act would compromise the ability to finance some of the priority policies. It is to be thanked that the effort of the Greek public employees had contributed to Galicia being one of the autonomous communities where the effects of the crisis were not left to feel with so much virulence as in other autonomys and – I insist – as opposed to models, because these measures, unlike what happened in other communities, were temporary and their application was expected as long as the exceptional economic and financial circumstances we were suffering. This government, in addition to being responsible for making decisions – tough, when they play – also has word and fulfills the promise, because I come here today to ensure by law that the Greek public employees recover all of the extra payment they have received since 2012 and that they do so two years before the originally planned. We give it back as full and as soon as we can. [[Applause]] It should be remembered that the 2012 extraordinary payment was accompanied by a return commitment when economic circumstances allowed it. [[Murmurs.]] As the preamble to Royal Decree No. 10/2015 of 11 September, which has just approved the Central Government, says, "the macroeconomic indicators make manifest that the path of recovery and economic growth has begun, which allows for the return of efforts made in the interests of budgetary stability." Well, thanks to these indicators, in the first half of this year 2015, the State returned 25% and Junta also made this return effective through the general budgets of Galicia for 2015 and the Public Employment Act of Galicia. Thanks to the measures taken by the popular governments of Madrid and Galicia, fortunately the situation has changed with regard to 2012, the origin of this award of extra payment. Today we are growing steadily, quarter by quarter, with a deficit reduced to almost half that three years ago. Even though we continue to have too much unemployment, we are already at levels of four years ago and improving; in the private sphere the continued destruction of employment is changing to start re-repeating contracts – so we act as soon as we had the chance to do so – and, in the case of the Galician Union, we enable by law a fund that guarantees the salary recovery of public employees, we shield by law the salary recovery of public employees with a specific fund and very specific temporal horizons that we are even forward. Thus, in the additional tenth second provision of the Galician Public Employment Act, Junta included the creation of the remuneration fund for the recovery of public employees' salaries. This fund will be set aside budgetly each year and by 2016 will allow the return of 100 percent of the extra payment due in 2012. That is why, with this law that I come before this Parliament, we take a step further and, as I said, we advance the full refund of this payment in two years, as set out in the own explanatory statement – as we will see today in the House –. In other words, the Government of Greece is planning to advance the payment of the remaining 50% to 2016, which will allow the return of all of this payment to be completed next year. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that initially this year 2015 was only expected to return 25% and with this legal change we guarantee a 50% return, because as soon as this Parliament approves it, public employees will receive the other 25%. So the return will be immediate and the public employees will receive it at the next October payroll. We not only advance the deadlines but return it to the first payroll in which it is materially possible to do so. I must point out that this law affects all Greek public employees, more than 125,000 will perceive this return, including non-active staff, what happened to other administrations, staff of public universities and those of concerted education. [[Applause]] When in August the President of the Board announced the 25% return of the 2012 extra payment, the German Government made its commitment to this September, once we had the necessary legal authority of the state to do so, and we didn't take a day to start this process. I personally contacted, half an hour after approving this authorization, the Council of Ministers, with representatives of public employees to address this issue and only six days after having this legal authorization, the Council of the Board of Governors gave green light on September 17 to the regulations to initiate processing in this Parliament. Thus, the maximum commitment of this government to advance the return of all the 2012 extra payment to public employees as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, will and ability to do so, because it is important to explain that the State will only allow the return to communities that meet two requirements: to have budgetary availability and to meet the target of deficit in 2015. The fulfilment of both requirements by the Galician Union has as a consequence that the Union is currently in a position to anticipate the return of this 25% by 2015. The return of this 25% will cost us approximately EUR 56.5 million for our Autonomous Community and the average return will exceed EUR 450 per employee. Since we are fully aware of the sacrifices made by public employees and we want to keep compensating for this effort, I would like to announce to you that tomorrow we will even call the representatives of public employees from the Council to begin negotiating the return of days of free will and additional vacation days depending on the age. We will take this measure because the financial situation of the Autonomous Community allows, because we want to do so and because we have the capacity to do so. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are a responsible Government that makes every moment the decisions necessary to safeguard Galicia's general interest. We are a Government with words that fulfill its commitments, in this case with public servants, as soon as possible. And we are a Government that equips this community with the necessary political stability to continue to govern day by day, to consolidate economic recovery and to seek to improve the well-being of our citizens. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u96	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and the positioning of the bill. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u97	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I'm sorry to tell you that you've discredited yourself nothing more than a start to talk, because having the courage to state at the parliamentary headquarters that the Union has not jeopardised public workers and workers is a political indecency, a genuine political indecency. Because, on the other hand, – see if it's indecent what you've just done – recognizes the efforts of workers and public workers. Indecent. It wasn't a collaboration, it was a robbery, an imposition that was made on them and you come here now to say that nothing happens, they keep working on wonderful conditions and the Greek public services have not lost quality. Of course, it's worth it! It's also worth saying that the Galician Union will meet and pay as soon as possible. You're lying! The Galician Union, which submits to the Spanish State, pays when the Spanish State gives it permission, irrespective of the interests and needs of the Greek people. That's your role. Thus, the public authorities' responses to the economic crisis were characterized by the imposition of large sacrifices on public employees and employees for the purpose of the government's objective of reducing the public deficit. These sacrifices have been placed in wage cuts, deteriorating working conditions, increasing annual work hours and the absence of replacement of troops, although the Counsellor does not appear to be precarious. This is supposed to be done to improve the wage and labor conditions of the public workers. You must have courage, Mr. Counselor, you must have courage! By Law 1/2012 of 29 February, of temporary measures and certain public employment matters in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the suspension of recognised rights and standards of a legal or conventional nature, taking into account the serious budgetary situation and the need to reduce the public deficit, and on a temporary basis, is therefore subject to the existence of difficult economic circumstances affecting the sustainability of public accounts. Although the Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 points out that public administrations may establish more days of personal affairs for seniority and additional holidays, the People's Party in Galicia refuses to negotiate it already, reserving this basis for the electoral period, as the councillor has just announced. About 50% of the 2012 extra due to public workers and workers, they say it's going to be in the 2016 general budgets. Suppose it'll be another campaign before the autonomic elections. In the state they already have more days of free will and holidays than in Galicia, because all employees have 22 days, but in the state they are applying the days more by age, so at 15 they have one more day, with 20 others, the 25 others and the 30 others, which is not applicable in our country. Also in the days of personal affairs in Galicia they had the employees and public employees 9 days, which were unilaterally reduced to 6 days, and they don't contemplate the days more than they give him the state legislation for the completed triennium. For the Greek administration this means losing 3 days of personal affairs in relation to the right set out in Article 75 of the old civil service law, which began from the first 9 days. The cut-off of the specific complement of extra payments, and similar amount for workers, which the People's Party practiced in their employee payrolls and employed in 2013, 2014 and 2015 will not be returned either. The decision of the President of the Board not to directly apply the right recovery measures for employees and public employees approved by the Central Government, puts Galicia at the head of the cuts in the Public Service. He did it was the first to apply the cuts throughout the state and, if everything follows this way, he will be the last to return the stolen rights to the workers and workers. The rights stolen by the Board claim its return, and, among other things, we can cite the full refund of the 2012 extra payment; the Social Action Fund, which has completely eliminated all aid, except those aids to the dependency, but with a limitation of 180 euros; once again receive the hundred per cent of the extraordinary payments; the suspension of the right to the realization of the supplement which establishes the additional provision the tenth of the recast text of the Law of Galician Public Service, approved by the Legislative Decree 1/2008, of 13 May, of the increase of the complement of destination in the amount necessary to equal it to the value of the complement of destination or concept equivalent to the Law of General Budgets of the Fixed State. The increase in the annual schedule. The suspension of the application of several articles of the V Single Collective Convention for Workers of the Galician Union. This is reflected in the application of Article 19, Article 29, which is the right to the dining room, which is kept only for the education workers, and for the staff who work in the evening shifts, drinks – nothing more than hot drinks – or cold drinks. The suspension of the application of Article 34.2 and the suspension of the additional third application of the V Convention. End with the sickness and discrimination tax and the loss of the rights of persons affected by chronic diseases, recovering the right to 100 percent of the salary in the case of common illness or non-working accidents. It covers 100 percent of the absences for sick leave, for leave, for vacations. End with the practice of succession of possible and part-time contracts, which condemns workers and public workers from the recruitment list to the most absolute job insecurity. And here I want to stop, because you say that Junta didn't undermine the working conditions of workers and public workers. But the Board itself, in its report both last year and this year, calls upon the Board of Auditors to address the abuse of the use of possible and part-time recruitment, and the precariousness of public workers and workers. That's why you refuse to comply with the Board's recommendations. To proceed with the call for jobs necessary for the replacement of public employment, which guarantee quality services and the paralysis of their dismantling, because it cannot be said that there is no precaution when they don't rest their jobs, when they don't cover their vacancies, when staff are working in a limited situation, when work accidents – fundamentally in Wellness – are increasing terribly because of overwork, because neither staff nor material suitable for people's mobilizations. That is why I presented an alternative text in an amendment to the whole – as requested by the legal representation of workers and workers – based on the basic legislation contained in the Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 of 11 September, which conditions the public administration's allowance to make possible the economic and financial situation of the Autonomic Administration. And also in the statements on July 31, 2015, which issued the Board itself, claiming that the spending ceiling for 2016, with an increase of 5.2%, would allow the tax to be reduced again, to continue returning to public employees the effort made, to improve public services and to boost economic activity. Of course, before you lower taxes, which benefit the most winning people, those tax cuts with a totally social policy. Because social services, public services, keep taxes, and you do the opposite, lower taxes to reduce quality in public services and to reduce rights to public workers. You, by announcing this tax drop, say that at this moment the Union can proceed, given the economic situation of the community, to lower taxes, as long as the public workers and workers continue to be hampered, while the public services continue to be privatized, while there is still poor service and poor care for the Greeks and the Greeks who attend public services, it is indeed a real aggression to this people, it is a real aggression to this nation. What they had to do would be establish progressive taxes where everyone earns the most, the more pay; where they demand a social commitment to businesses to improve the quality of work and increase wages to the Greeks, which are the lowest in the state and therefore we have the lowest pensions in the state. So all his policies that come here to sell us as a great achievement, even as a favor that is done to employees and public servants, to return to them part of what was stolen from them, it seems, of course, a real scandal. Because it is not possible to speak of a favourable situation that allows tax relief when there is still an unfair and unjustifiable cut in economic benefits and labour rights to employees and public employees. But we can't talk about a favourable economy and lower taxes when we have situations like those that are being taught, where there's an absolute lack of support teacher for children with special needs. We can't talk about a favorable situation when in Vigo we need a private, privatized hospital, high-technology privatized and non-sanitary services. Even privatizing the attention of the captors, in a genuine disregard for the care they do, and a true contempt for all those workers and workers who mostly access these jobs in the reserve for posts of people with some kind of dependence. So you practice through this single-reading and urgent bill a real despotism and contempt for this people, for the workers and public workers, and for the public services and the quality of them. The recovery of the quality of public services provided by the Government of Galicia, and the restoration of social justice and democracy in the work relations of the Union of Galicia, must be the priority objective of the Government of Galicia. It will hardly defend the rights of the workers and workers of the private companies, of the concerted companies, when they abuse their workers, when they do not recognize their rights, and when they return the theft it becomes a favor to be thanked. And when he comes here now to tell us that he's going to negotiate with union representation the return of the days that they've been taken away. There's nothing to negotiate, the theft must be returned. With [...] not negotiated! [[(By order of the President (Santalices Vieira) and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] How is someone going to negotiate with a [...] you give me back so much of what you stole from me? [[(By order of the President (Santalices Vieira) and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] What has been stolen must be returned to 100 percent and not justified does not return it. I therefore presented the alternative text with a single article to the articulated text, which says: "The Act 1/2012, of 29 February, of temporary measures in certain areas of employment of the Autonomous Community of Galicia shall be repealed". I believe that this text is the right text for this bill, since the Board itself admits that the economic situation allows it, even allows it to lower taxes, and because there is nothing to negotiate, simply return what belongs to public workers. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. I beg you to remove that expression from the Journal of Sessions. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's what I heard. I'm asking you to take it off. There's therefore a retreat. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, then you have a call to order. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again. Mr Counsellor, if I may be able to tell you with all due respect, the ultimate proof that you consider this Parliament only as a decoration, and the debate of this bill as a mere procedure, rather than a parliamentary procedure, a mere theatrical stagnation, is your intervention. Because you took advantage of Pisierga passing through Valladolid – I believe, if you did not change geography with LOMCE – to come here, once again, to advertise the supposed achievements of this economic recovery and to advertise or to say the opposite of what was the real policy of your government in relation to public administration and public services. But, as you will understand, I am not going to go into your game and I am going to talk about what we've been talking about here now, which is what you referred to the Greek Parliament and what's called the Bill of Law so that you approve an extraordinary remuneration in terms of the recovery of the extraordinary payment of December 2012 for employees in the Italian autonomic sector. I suppose for the employees, too. First, allow me, to contextualize both the moment in which this bill is produced and, above all, to contextualize the amendment of all with alternative text presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, which takes a brief look at which were the main milestones in the cuts in both pay and social rights to public employees in recent years. We would have to start in 2010 with the cut, cut as such, for the first time in the history of the Spanish State of the salaries of public employees practised by the Government of Mr. Zapatero in the year 2010 of 5%. Later, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who never wants to be less than Zapatero, especially when he talks about cuts, approved here also Law 1/2012, wage, social and labor cuts to the public employees of Galicia. The law is called another way, but it's a more euphemism, it's actually from labor, social and wage cuts to public employees. Later, the Government of the State, already in the summer of 2012, through Royal Decree Law 20/2012, approves what has been called in its day as the theft or expropriation of the extraordinary payment to which they had the right of the year 2012 and what you today – which I then have to recognize as an artist of the euphemisms – called "appropriation". I'll ask you a question. Since it's a compliment that they kindly gave to the public servants, they're going to pay them interest, aren't they? I guess. I have to make a new amendment. I'm sorry, I'll do it in voice if the Bureau members are allowed. Because, of course, if it's a settlement, it'll be with interest in employees and public employees. He spoke of this expropriation of the extraordinary payment of the month of December 2012, which you know very well, Counsellor, who was even questioned, essentially as regards the devenged prior to the entry into force of that royal legislative decree, by the courts of justice throughout the Spanish state, who declared that usurpation illegal – we continue to seek euphemisms or synonyms, right, counsellor?–, that usurpation of the wages of public employees made by the Government of the State and also by the Government of the United States of Galicia, and who ordered their return. But as Mr. Feijóo seemed little and to his Government this seemed little, in the successive laws of the Galician Board for the year 13, 14, and 15 apply to public employees a new reduction of their extraordinary wages, consistent that they were not paid 100% of the extraordinary payment as it was legally established but rather that all that corresponds to supplementary wages, and that's also in 2015. Finally, of many of those rights that were restricted by the adoption of Law 1/2012, its cut, its elimination, the adoption a few months ago in this Parliament of Law 2/2015, of Galicia's public employment. And we will discuss that later, because it has to do with the amendment made by this parliamentary group. The consequence of this, Counselor, as much as you want to deceive or manipulate reality, is that there has been a substantial decrease in public employees' income. Some trade union organizations, or trade union organizations in general, have accounted for this reduction in recent years, since 2010, around 30% of the loss of the purchasing power of public employees, an unequivocal decline in their labour rights and of course dramatic repercussions on the quality of public services. Because, look, we've talked a lot of times about this whole question, so I'm not going to waste a lot of time, because I have other matters to deal with, but only in the welfare services are 1,500 jobs lost as a result of Law 1/2012 eliminating in practice the fifth employment union agreement of the Galician Union, especially in terms of shift work, bookkeeping and the workday. And therefore, as you will understand, with the elimination of personnel, with the non-replacement of troops that has been applying throughout all these years, the quality of public services has been severely eroded. And what does the People's Party do to resolve this situation? What does the Government of the People's Party do? Then a new attempt of manipulation and deceit. Because, look, I've already read you the full title of the law, and if we were in another process and had the opportunity to formulate partial amendments, from the very first thing you'd have to say is that in the title of the law, instead of putting "in the concept of the recovery of extraordinary pay," you'd clearly have to put "in the concept of partial recovery of extraordinary pay." Because I, after listening to you, don't know if I have to ask the House services to pass the text to me, because it doesn't correspond to what you said from this rostrum that puts the content of the bill that sent us to this Parliament. And I really must be very nice, because the councillor is laughing, and I honestly don't have any fun and I don't think that public employees don't have any fun if the Government of Galician Union comes to this Parliament laughing or trying to laugh at all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I don't think that public employees are any good enough, Counselor, that you dare say here that the Greek public employees are going to have their full extra pay back two years before the expected one at the same time that sends us a law that only 26.23% of that pay is guaranteed, only 26.23% is guaranteed, and nothing else is guaranteed. And at the same time, Counselor – and you know it perfectly – makes this simulation that they're going to return everything to them when they're actually just going to give them a quarter back and when they know you're going to put your hand back on every public employee in this country in December. Because at the same time they're supposed to pay them the extra pay they've already stolen from them in 2012, they'll still steal another part of the extra payment -- if they steal, steal, insist, steal -- in December, and they've just had a joke -- if they like more -- a part in June. So this is a real manipulation, a real deception and a real attempt to manipulate reality. And that's what you sent us to this Parliament, not one more note makes the law. What you've sent us here for approval is an article in which you're going to give them back 26.23%, then develop how it's going to be done for the university system and how it's going to be done for the concerted teaching of delegate payment, and nothing else. Are there any other articles that have hidden us here? There's nothing else, right? 50% doesn't speak anything, right, 50% left. Or is it? Are you talking about 50% left? And the Public Employment Act, which you mentioned, does not guarantee that the remaining 50% will be returned to you in 2016, because I don't have time now to read all the twelfth transitional provision, which is the one that speaks of the recovery of lost purchasing power. And all he says is that a fund will be established on the basis of budgetary provisions to return it within three years, but it does not set any time limit. And, therefore, there's no guarantee of what we're going to approve here today. The only certainty public employees can have is that before the end of this year, they will be returned 25% of their 2012 pay, but they will also continue to be sure that before the end of the year they'll be retiring money from their 2015 extra pay. And you can also be sure that they won't be returned any of the rights they've stolen from them with the approval of the other laws I mentioned earlier. And that's why, Counselor, I'm going to make a very generous offer on the part of this parliamentary group. If you want to get out of here and you don't have to go confess the sin of continuous and permanent lie you did in your intervention, accept our alternative text. Because our alternative text is the only way you have to make true what you said in your intervention. As you will see, in our alternative text, we maintain its wording in article 1, except that we have to check, before the end of October, for 26.23%. So that's what I suppose will be of value to you, because it's literally what you sent to Parliament. But we added an article 2 which says, "Total recovery of the 2012 outstanding staff pay to the public sector." Because we really do want to make sure that the public employees and the employees of the Galician public sector know that if they're going to be returned to them, the other 50%, which is still due to them. And that's why we put article 2, ensuring that before the end of 2015 they get paid the rest to actually pay them back the pay they took from 2012. And now I still add the amendment in you. As you say it was a compliment that made them, we have to add their interests to it, because when you make a payment you always receive interest in return. We added article 3. To make it true that you don't keep getting your hands on public employees, you will have to return all the extras that have been stolen from the year 13, 14 and 15, including the one that is still missing for committing, which is December 2012. Article 3, Counsellor. And if you really believe and want public employees to believe that what you told us here is that they're going to start negotiating on their own business and vacation days is true, they'll have to start by accepting the unique derogation provision and repealing that law of shame which is Law 1/2012; which, of course, the law itself foresees its review over two years and is already more than three. And if you really, Counselor, want that supposed negotiation that's going to start tomorrow with the unions, it seems, in order to give them back their vacations and business days real, you'll have to agree with me that the only way to do it is by accepting the second final provision of the alternative text of the Nationalist Block of Wales, which says there's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u100	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u101	...which amends Article 132 of the Public Employment Act, Law 2/2015, which expressly states that holidays are a maximum of 22 days, and does not speak of the possibility of increasing by antiquity. The same applies to business days, which the law taxfully places a maximum of six and does not speak of the possibility of increasing them by antiquity. So you'll agree with me that you have to accept this amendment that we make today, because it's the only way to give you a minimum, a touch of credibility, what you told us. And if you finally want someone to believe that you're trying to restore some rights to public employees, you'll have to agree with me, too, that you have to amend the Public Employment Act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u103	...to remove that outrage which constitutes the consolidation of one of the most serious cuts introduced in Law 1/2012, which is not entitled to 100% of wages in the event of temporary disability and which you have consolidated by introducing it into the Public Employment Act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u104	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u105	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the acceptance of this amendment by the BNG Parliamentary Group is the only way to make the Government's version at least likely. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u107	Counselor, the truth is, he said some questions that never cease to amaze me. You speak from a vision, from a catastrophic or apocalyptic self, from the reality of what has been the former government, the central government. In fact, you elude that they've been ruling for seven years, and you elude that you, your government, have anticipated attacking the workers and public workers in a lot of rules that continue to crush them today. That eludes him, he doesn't speak of his management for seven years of government against employees and public employees. Elude and false, of course, the reality of what you are doing, and even in an absolutely surprising and blatant way, you lie to this House; you lie because you know that the data you gave are not true. I remind you that this intended economic recovery, in macroeconomic terms, has a negative differential in this country. And you, since you came here, have to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks why we have that negative differential in relation to the rest of the state. Because the reading is, Counselor, that we have because you're doing it wrong, but we also tell you that you're lying, there's no recovery from the job. And you know why there isn't? Look, with real data, with public sources of your ministries – of the People's Party – because we've lost hours of work – 45 million hours of work – and because we've lost affiliations to Social Security since you rule. Do you know how many songs? Full-time, about a million memberships of Social Security. You know what? That we've lost our jobs. You know what? We're growing up unemployed today, Counselor, and I'm talking about official data. And you know what's more serious? The worst thing is that we've lost or lost or are assaulting workers and unemployed workers, with a benefit that doesn't cover 3.7 million people, exactly with a 30% reduction. So, Counselor, don't lie in this House. There is no recovery in employment, nor in public employment. According to official data – Mr. Montoro's, not ours, I suppose you know them well – you've loaded more than 5,000 public jobs in Galicia. You have done and supported a job reform, which also applies in the Public Service, which has served for two things: the first, to practically fire at zero price, because free was already the layoff in this country, what happens is that what they've managed was to fire the price at almost zero. And I'm going to tell you about reality, about that undefined contract form of support for entrepreneurs, which, as you know, allows you to have a person for a year in practice, without a right to anything, Counselor, that which you have supported. And the second reality of this labour reform is this of what the Banco de España says – since it does not speak Alternative Galga de Left, says the Banco de España –: Labour reform had a goal, which was to lower wages, not create jobs. And in that account are you – you too, councillor of the Galician Trade Fair, in this country – assaulting workers and public workers. It's true, May 2010, the Socialist Party, attack with 5% of cuts on workers and public workers. Error, of course, it's true! But it's true that what you've done with all the following rules is nonsense and aggression – as I said before, in the intervention we've had – that it's definitive, it's not temporary, Counsellor. If it's temporary and if it's true your account, you derogate from Law 1/2012 of February 29, you derogate that law. Counsellor, you said they don't jeopardise public work. Do you want to tell me if you know the conditions in which you work, especially not all women, who provide your services in the welfare centers of this country? Do you want to tell me why Article 19 of the Fifth Public Service Collective Convention, Counsellor, is still being suspended? Stop lying. They're vassals of a system that works for the bank, they're prisoners of those big debtors who carry their march, and that's why they have to tear down the working conditions of employees and public employees as well. That's why his account is false. If it is true that the People's Party has managed to get Spain out of the crisis, apply the story, derogate those rules, and put into effect Article 19 which allows workers and public workers – especially because they are affected by social welfare networks – to be able to comply with or comply with the time standards required by European legislation. Do that, Counsellor, but he does not, because he is hostage to his speech, and his speech is that these reforms have come to remain, Counsellor, not only here in Galicia, in the Spanish state, but not, no, they have come to remain in all the countries of the south, because, Counsellor – you said – the goal is fiscal consolidation, and, as the goal is fiscal consolidation, we are trapped in this European Union that crushes the people and crushes the workers and workers; also in Germany, Counsellor, too, in Germany. Talking about data would be long, but it's quite illustrative. They actually talk for themselves. I suppose when we passed this Public Employment Act, the Socialist Party didn't rule, did it, Counselor? You want to make us stupid? Not to me, eh! I didn't rule the Socialist Party, and the biggest attack, as has already been said in this House, is to allow this situation of slavery that employees and public employees have when they are in a condition of illness, Counsellor. Sorry, not even in the private company! What happens is that when we study law in law school law, we are taught that it is vital in the framework of labour law to prevent employment in the public administration so that this can be extended to the private enterprise network, and that's what you did in the Public Employment Act, that's the sign to continue undoing and allowing workers and workers in this country to work, and also to take care of the civil service unions. If you call him to negotiate with what they did on September 14 and 15, this month, please stop taking our hair and stop saying questions here that nothing has to do with reality. They arrived and imposed. And stop lying, what they're going to get back to is 26.23% of the extra pay. And I want, before we start with the refund amendment – in which we coincided with the partners we made the amendments from different organizations of the opposition – to indicate some illustrative issues, because I also want to deny the People's Party. Look, in the text of the State Government, it says something very curious. I'll tell you if you remember those words that Mrs. Secretary of State for Research, you know her, Mrs. Carmen Vela. He said, "In Spain there are researchers, that's why we have to throw them out." I'm glad, because the text that I took the trouble to read, because it's my obligation, says something clear, and I'll tell you what I said. So nothing more and nothing less acknowledges that it was a mistake to throw talent out of this country, which was a mistake than you are partners, and you too; let's remember the investment we have in our country at R+D+i, and down by 0.86%. But look, Counselor, I think the public workers know what you're doing, and what they're doing is they're doing an election treat, and they're going to do it very quickly. They have to do it with guarantees so that when we go to vote on December 20, they have a relief in their homes for public officials and civil servants; for that they are doing so. And they're going to postpone the remainder -- 25% or 50%, we'll see that -- to the next elections. Yes, you laugh; it's to cry, Counselor. You should have a little respect for this House, Counselor, because it's to cry, it's to cry. We'll see him in 2016 when we're back in election. But they're late, Counselor, they're late because with alms the elections are not won, because no one believes them in this country. Do you know how much a master or a teacher has lost because of the loss of the specific complement of an autonomic character, which does not depend on the central government? Do you know how much? Well, between 500 and 1,000 euros a month. In humble wages, Counselor, in humble wages. That doesn't work with you, it doesn't seem like it does. Why do we make this amendment? Because we don't share the People's Party's story and because this law is again an aggravation against workers and public workers. What do we ask for in our amendment? Well, very simple things. First, the People's Party's recovery of the dignity of the workers and public workers, who were insulted. I have here a memorial of aggravations of what you have said, your public office, each of the absent advisors and advisors, the workers and the public workers. The second question: indeed, the recognition of the existing and total debt of 100%, and the abolition of it; not 26.23%, no, no, what they lack, Counsellor; that is, with this frame, 75%. Now don't make any more electoral stamps. And thirdly, Mr. Counsellor, of course, the wage increase that they've also lost the Public Administration's colleagues, that's 5%. Of course you do, Counselor, because they are also victims of it. And what it has to do with the restorative rate and the recovery of the public jobs that have taken them down in this country, you. We want vitally – and there we agree all the opposition partners – this which we take to the Commission on a number of occasions, and to this plenary this same spokesman brought it several times: the derogation – which is a massive attack on the rights of workers and public workers – of the Law 1/201, of February 29, because in his account, Counsellor, it makes no sense; in that report of the labour reform in which we are told that precariousness is absolute until we get down to 15% of unemployment. If we have to wait until 15 per cent of unemployment figures in this country are reduced, all dead, Counsellor, body to earth! But also, Counsellor, we ask for something fundamental, which is to override all those rules, such as those mentioned here under the Public Employment Act, which systematically attack workers and public workers. And look, I'm going to finish my time with precision: you again attack the workers and the public workers, they attack them again. Anyone who studies the rule now being transferred to Galicia in this plenary debate can see that the amount of what the Spanish State is talking about to pay this 26.23% is a very small amount, 251 million euros. Do you know how you're going to pay that amount, Counselor? Public debt. Do you know how you're going to pay? With public debt, and not because Yolanda Díaz says it, but because he says the rule they've approved. And you know why, Counselor? Because they want to stigmatize workers and public workers again by telling us they're making an over-exercising effort, and they're making an effort that they have to go even to the public debt when no one believes such a story. 251 million euros is an amount for any more than assumed ministry, Counsellor, but in their account they need to stigmatize; they need to transmit out there that workers and public workers are privileged, that they are vague, that they are malevolent. And I'm going to tell you again: visit some wellness center, work center, the away Wellness Council, and see what conditions they're working on. If your report is true, I urge you to conclude with the suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Public Administration Convention. Not the electoral traps, we don't want alms, and that's why we tell you you have the opportunity to vote on any of the refund amendments that we have tabled from any of the opposition groups, because we are right and we give the key. It is to dignify the working conditions of them and of them, which were not the ones who caused the crisis, who did not live above their possibilities, Counsellor; these were Mr. Feijó's friends, those who traveled on yacht; those, not the workers and public workers. So if you don't want to make more traps, vote in favour of these amendments, repeal Law 1/2012 of 29 February, put into force Article 19 of the Collective Convention, recover your dignity, and above all, in October, pay 100% of the extra payment that has usurped workers and public workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, I have listened carefully to it and we are undoubtedly in the wrong debate, some of us have a legislative text which is not what is being debated in this Parliament. I took the trouble of checking that what I've got on the agenda, so it must be you who's wrong. You see, in the measures you announced today as a result of the supposed approval of that legislative text, you say that, on the one hand, the total amount lost, usurped, to public employment, to employees and officials, to employees and public employees will be recovered; on the other hand, that the working conditions of employees and public employees will be recovered, and in addition, you say that you thank them for the effort, as if you were volunteering, that they did as a result of these measures. In addition, you say that these measures are being implemented after a collective negotiation – which you will already explain to us where this collective negotiation came from – and that, in addition, with this measure, the electoral announcements and the commitments made by Mr Feijóo and the Government of the Union are being fulfilled. This is a summary and a synthesis of what you said, what is recorded in this Journal of Sessions, and yet that's what the text says. The text in reality – not in its advertisement – on the one hand only announces the return of a party, of the part of 26% – 26.23%, I will be strictly strict with the legislative text. It is therefore false to return practically all of Mr. Feijóo's commitment. Secondly, the text of the law does not set any deadlines for return; one thing is that you announce what you are going to do, but the question is that the legislative text that is brought to this House today does not set a deadline for return. And thirdly, within the commitments that Mr Feijóo has made in his multiple headlines, which he always seeks in electoral period, was indeed the return of all those sacrifices that the public employees and employees had to make. Well, there's not one of the lost rights of employees and public employees who is recognized in this legal text, Counsellor. So we're back with a legal text of electoral marketing, which coincides – like every advertisement about employees and public employees – in the electoral period. And besides, they don't match the headlines again with the content. I dare you to tell me in which of this scarce text of the article are the ads you just made. And if what you want to do is to match the ads, if the reality is what you just announced, then you have to modify this text, Counselor. So you have to choose one of two questions, because you are in a political schizophrenia in this situation. Or you want to do it is an election announcement, which is what this law contains, and then you yourself, as always, will approve a legislative text of electoral marketing; or you want to do it is to comply with those commitments reached during the electoral period, and then what you will have to pass is the amendment of totality provided for in the Socialist Parliamentary Group and which, in addition, coincides with the rest of the opposition groups. Look, you, in addition, within the arguments – I've also been taking one of those that I was saying – actually, I was talking about that, in order to lower pay – here we have to thank that the fault in this case is Rajoy – applied to the basic legislation of the state. You did what you did at the time was, on the one hand, apply the State's basic legislation, certainly applied the measures of Montoro and Rajoy. But, in addition to that, at the Galician Summit – this example of public service defence – they approved, as you know and as it states in the DOG, additional downloads that are not contained in other autonomous communities. That's the reality of Galicia's legislation. However, in order to raise wages, in order to announce partial rise or partial recovery of wages, they apply exclusively to the legislation of the State, as they have just done. Well, let's be consistent, if you for a matter, for downloads, apply state legislation and apply additional measures of Galicia's own competition rules, and it turns out that Galicia is in a magnificent, financially enviable situation, and that all Spanish people would love to be living in Galicia, because what is less than recovering those measures suppressed by themselves. Because, if not, Counselor, we continue with the same schizophrenia. Look, secondly, he said there is no time limit in the legal text, and if not, tell me where it fits. It is, of course, because you don't know very well when you return to the State Government and why the government of the State will apply. Surely because the State Government trusts that it is not the same, and therefore cannot announce, at best, total recovery. However, you have at least a few months left and therefore still have the possibility of determining the recovery of all that extra payment and the possibility of legislating not by single reading but by an ordinary procedure. They have the legislative period sufficient – except that Feijóo thinks ahead of the elections immediately – the period necessary to materialize it by a regular procedure and also to regulate all and each of the sacrifices that have been imposed on employees and public employees for which suddenly you – I see them – are so worried. And, moreover, there is no indication of the content in the legal text – I suppose it would forget – corresponding to the additional cut of the specific supplement, something you will obviously know that you were contemplated as an ad, in this case of Mr. Rueda – by Vice President of the Galician Council – in an attendance to talk about public services and that you announced to employees and public employees. The reality is that this text does not correspond, and this supplement is not limited by the basic state legislation, would enter within the competences of Galicia. So, Counselor, we see that there is no legal obstacle for you to do this. Therefore, Counsellor, if we do not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which coincides – and may also be good enough with the whole House – substantially with the rest of the political parties, if we do not accept it, we would therefore be counsellor, before an exercise of electoral hypocrisy. And, look, you say you negotiated with the union table. Well, they would negotiate with the table, because I think we all know – of course, those we try to be informed – that all, without exception, the unions, the union representation, got up from the table when you wanted to impose the measures. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, you negotiate with yourself, I don't know if that process of self-negotiation can be called collective representation and negotiation. You also speak of the fact that thanks to the measures taken by the People's Party – I believe that I will take literally and begrudgingly what you said – a professionalization of the civil service has taken place. It can be seen that before the People's Party, public employment was plagued by incompetent people and that it was likely that they had to amortize around 3,000 teacher squares, between 3,000 and 5,000 public health optional squares and so many social services professionals, to cite a few simple examples of the public service. Now I understand and now we understand what was the reason for the depreciation of squares and redundancies that occurred in the public services of the Galician Union: that you were what you wanted were professional, and until the People's Party Government arrived, the public function was filled with incompetent. Look, the truth is, Mr Counsellor, is that you, both the state legislation – the basic legislation – and the legislation of the additional measures of the Galician Union – regulation 1/2012 – as well as each of the relevant regulations – as approved in the Law on Local Administration Reform or those referring to the deficit, or anyone who takes it from the Government Rajoy or the Government of Galician Union – set forth, Counsellor, is the precariousness of public services, the precariousness of public employment, the dismantling of public services and the empowerment of the private sector. It's evidence that today in local administrations, as a result of the regulations that you have applied, you can't hire or it's very difficult to hire employees and public servants for basic services, for services necessary for citizenship. However, there is no problem in hiring these services if they are outsourced, and those services cannot be developed – by setting an example, public social inclusion services, public family intervention services or public dependency services – through direct recruitment within this public employment that you say they so much defend, but there is no impediment to it being made through private companies, in which no legal obstacle will be found. And these are less bad than the governments that defend public services. Look, Counselor, it's obvious that you're defending your idea here. Clearly, you're on an electoral precaution, where today's public service headline. But the fact is that the reality of public services, Counsellor, is called Vigo Hospital. The reality of public services is seen at the beginning of the school course, it is seen with the protests of so many teachers and so many teachers because they were found with less units. At this very beginning of school, Counsellor, two weeks ago, there were the headlines that obey Galician reality. The reality of the public service in Galicia, Counsellor, is that the dependency offices, which have disappeared from the social inclusion offices, have disappeared from the childhood teams, that the juvenile centres have been underprivileged and that equality services have been taken away. The reality of social services is the precariousness of all and every one of the workers who perform their services in welfare, the imposition of impossible days for those who provide services to dependent people or large dependents, or the huge waiting lists that occur in public residences in the relative ease with which some private residences can find place whenever money is available for payment; that is not –I believe – the case of most citizens. You were talking about the example of the public services in Galicia, and I'm going to talk to you exclusively – because you were talking about reports – of the FOESSA report, of the Caritas report, which announces this year that Galicia is one of the communities – it is at the beginning, in the lists by the bar above – in which there is more social exclusion from health, in which the copage and restrictions of the public health service did more harm to users and users. In Galicia, Counsellor, and not the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Caritas report says so. So, Counsellor, if you really want to fulfill the announcements – the real ones – the announcements to citizenship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u110	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u111	... – Finally, Mr President – returns all the payments that have usurped employees and public employees, sets by law the deadline for that, and repeals the measures imposed by those restrictions. Because, without exception, it's impossible to do so. This is offered by approving the socialist amendment, so it's very easy. And you could get out in this same crowd. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Sestayo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning again. Now, once we have adopted the procedure for the single reading procedure, we are discussing what the bill is, which will allow us to continue with the return of the extra December 2012 payment to public employees and employees. A measure, ladies and gentlemen, which was adopted – as everyone will remember – by the Government of the State bound by the serious financial situation in which our country was in, at a time when the public deficit was at 11%, accompanied by a drastic fall in state income. Ladies and gentlemen, your speech is surprising, because for some questions they remember things that even happened when they were not born, showing, by the way, a magnificent historical memory, and for other matters they seem to have been living out of the country for ten years and returned yesterday and believe that we are still in 2005. That's why they don't understand the concept of economic recovery, because you didn't recognize that there was a deep economic crisis in this country. Because in that context of serious recession, where Spain was at the edge of the rescue, measures were taken to reverse that trend. And as the advisor said, one of these measures was the adjournment of the increase of the extra December 2012 payment, which was a temporary measure. For others, definitive measures are a mistake, but temporary measures restore our clothes and mistakes nothing happens at all. Well, this temporary measure was furnished with all ideology and proof of it is that today we are talking about its return and we are talking about the recovery of that extra pay. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the Galician economic crisis it is the Community that has kept its number of troops more stable. The drop is 0.9%, below the average of the autonomous communities, which is around 1.2%. As you know, the biggest reduction in Galician troops in recent years has occurred in the local administration, specifically in municipalities and deputies, which has decreased by 7 per cent since 2012 and in the State administration by 4 per cent. And so while Galicia kept its staff stable, for example, the Andalusian Board in two years became less 18,000 public workers. Mrs. Díaz, with the same evolution as Andalusia, the Galician Union would have 5,200 public employees less than at the beginning of the crisis. But that's not the case, we're not in Andalusia, we're in Galicia. [[Applause]] And Galicia acted responsibly with the number of public employees and adopted measures to protect employment. And Galicia acted responsibly when it was necessary to control the deficit by taking action against the crisis. Measures that are working, because for the first year we have sufficient resources to put an end to these temporary measures. Galicia is acting responsibly by returning the 2012 extra pay to employees and public employees, as soon as legally possible, with state authority and because we have resources. And how does the opposition work? For the opposition acts irresponsibly by calling for the return of this law, asking for all groups without exception. You don't want employees and public employees to cover already in October; you don't want them to cover because they say it's an electoralist measure. But it is the first year in which we have the resources to adopt this measure. You ask for two contradictory things: first, let's not pay for it and, second, let's pay for it after the elections. That's electoralist, ladies and gentlemen, that's electoralist. And after the vote we've just seen, in which you voted against this emergency procedure, go and explain to the public workers and workers who don't want them to cover in October, that you voted here today to return the bill so that it's not possible what the counsellor just announced, that employees and public employees in October might have this return on their payroll. What is your criticism?, that Galicia is meeting the deficit right now, that we have funds in the 2015 budget? It seems to hurt, it seems to them that Galicia is an economically healthy community speaking, and a well-managed and solvent community, Mrs. Díaz. [[Murmurs.]] Today we can pay the extra payment because Galicia meets the two requirements that state demands: we meet the deficit target for 2015 and we have budgetary availability. And together with the Autonomous Community of La Rioja, we are the first autonomous community that pays 100 percent the wages of employees and public employees. You can return on public debt, Mrs. Díaz. [[Murmurs.]] But no, you will proceed – and read the papers, because if you see them there is a budgetary change after the bill has passed – you will proceed to your purchase from a budget split and not from the public debt. Don't try to fool people. And, let's see, what does the opposition demand in its amendments to the whole? Well, look, from the BNG and the Socialist Party, they're returning 100 percent. But as you know, Mrs. Sestayo and Mrs. Paz, it is not possible, since the real state decree only enables the return of 26.23%, arriving with the previous return of half the extra payment of 2012. There's no legal authorization; you're so pure. Request the BNG to recover the full amount of additional and extraordinary payments by 2016. It's a subject, Mrs. Peace, which will be seen in the 2016 budgets, and what I'll talk about later. Mrs. Paz and Mrs. Martínez are asking the Socialist Party for a derogation from Law 1/2012. Well, you were all rapporteurs of the Public Employment Act, except for Mrs Sestayo, because she delegated her parliamentary duties, because at that time she was more attentive to other things in Ferrol than her duties as a Parliamentary Member. But the rest know that law well, and if they don't know it, they should know that there have already been issues such as those they are asking for, such as the regulation of temporary disability due to common illness or non-working accidents, which is already as much as allowing basic regulations. It is surprising, yes, that the BNG asks for that derogation because it assumes, Your Honor, the recovery of the surplus of high charges. Both you and the Joint Group, and Mrs. Díaz, are asking for the recovery of the plus of high charges. Those are the risks of demagogy. And that'll have to be explained to employees and public employees. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Díaz, you don't make requests in a text. You did not present an amendment, you presented a explanatory statement. And how do we interpret that, like a statement of intent? Yes, yes, it says "exposition of motives" and then explains. I'm not going to tell you about the first document they presented, I'm going to have parliamentary courtesy and I'm not going to talk about that document, but I'm going to talk about what if they finally submitted, which is an exposition of motives. And, look, nothing new in his speech: neoliberal glaciation, austerity, neoliberal material violence, ruling us obedient to the Troica, the de facto renunciation of our sovereignty in the spring of 2010... That's a 5-percent cut-off from the staff member's salary. "Something I've never seen," said Mrs. Díaz in her document, "something I've never seen in democracy." I agree with you, Mrs. Díaz, without any precedent, I agree with you. But, look, it's just that the voices of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block that they talked about today in this gallery were Members in this House in the black spring that you're talking about in 2010. And since this initiative was approved in this House, it hasn't been registered by any of the groups that speak here today, and that they fill their mouths with defending employees and public employees, or one single initiative asking for the recovery of that 5%, or a single one. And now you come here to defend the interests, the labour rights of public employees and public employees. Who do you intend to fool, ladies and gentlemen, who do you intend to cheat? [[Applause]] Look, your only proposal, Mrs. Díaz, is the return of the bill that will allow the return of 25% of the extra pay. That's your proposal: to delay payment of wages. And I also remind you, Mrs. Díaz, as I told Mrs. Paz, that they were already included in the Public Employment Act. The Socialist Party also calls for the repeal of Law 1/2012, without alternative text, which would imply, if accepted, that employees and public employees in Greece would also see the recovery of 25% later. Mrs. Díaz, you and your group, who make such a huge defense of the civil servants' rights, except when they rule, that the defense there becomes a mistake, as Mrs. Díaz said, they propose the derogation of a law that in many cases is already amended by the Public Employment Act, which, if they haven't read it, I recommend that you read it. And so if we vote in favour of the amendment of... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I ask you a little respect, Mrs. Díaz, because I have listened to her very carefully.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u114	Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u115	I understand you don't like what I'm saying, but I've listened to you very carefully and I ask you for the same respect. Well, I was saying that Mrs. Sestayo has tabled an amendment that if we voted on it, we would repeal Law 1/2012, with no alternative text, and without including the text that the Government is bringing to this House today. And if you don't include it, you couldn't return the extra payment, that part of the extra payment, to the officials neither in October nor November nor December. As you say, after the elections, this is certainly not an electoralist. But the most surprising thing about everything is that it is the Socialist Party that talks about usurped rights to employees and public employees, or about fundamentally damaged labour rights – this in the text of the Socialist Party. The same Socialist Party that, as AGE says, actually renounced our sovereignty in the spring of 2010, with that 5% cut mistake. But, Mrs. Sestayo, they've been accusing us of electoralism for years, but they're electoral every year. See, in 2011, general and municipal; in 2012, autonomous; in 2014, European; in 2015, municipal; now general; in 2016 we will have autonomy. You tell me, if you don't, we can't approve anything because every year they're electoral. And, look, electoralist was the baby check, the universal deduction of 400 euros in the IRPF in a country that accumulated a debt of more than 90% of GDP; at the time when the Nationalist Block of Wales for five consecutive years approved those budgets that led the Socialist Party to the House and took us where we are now. But then the president of the Government of Spain, that illustrious socialist who I won't appoint because he doesn't like the name, but everyone will remember that illustrious president, who said that we were playing in the Champions League, was the time when the economy was learned in two afternoons, because he said that we have a capacity to fund social policies as never before in democracy. But it came in the spring of 2010 and they had to say good-bye to all those social measures, raising the EVV, reducing the salary of officials by 5%, freezing pensions and also freezing public salaries, in addition to the restrictions of the Dependency Act, which Mrs. Sestayo is here today claiming. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, to say this is an electoralist measure is to have a very poor opinion about employees and public employees. From the Popular Parliamentary Group we have the highest consideration of the people who develop their work in public administration, just as we value the effort they have made to help our country get out of the crisis. And that's why we take measures to protect public employment, to professionalise and improve working conditions, also temporary adjustment measures, which turn as soon as legally possible and at the first moment that we have resources, regardless of the electoral moment at which you want to place it. Mrs. Peace, you haven't read the twelfth transitional provision because you'd stop lying to her. See, I will read only point 3: "The fund" – referred to as the remuneration recovery – "mentioned in the preceding paragraph of this provision will collect for a maximum period of three years the appropriations needed to complete the recovery of the adjusted remuneration in the application of the Royal Decree Law 20/2012. In addition, the said fund shall finance on a consolidated basis the replacement of the two additional payments, the specific supplement or equivalent remuneration." Of course this has to be approved in budget laws. Of course, the Public Employment Act cannot pass it, Mrs. Peace, and you know it, and it comes here to twist the legislation and say what's not true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're not talking about propaganda or simulation, we're talking about 50 million euros that in October will be on the payroll of employees and public employees, while we're keeping the public deficit in addition to meeting our officials. The Government of the People's Party with this measure will increase staff spending by 100 million in 2015, and with the return plan of the Public Employment Act, Mrs. Paz, which is in the Public Employment Act, we would be talking about nearly 200 million euros in two years. In 2016 it would be paid 100 percent of the extra payment of 2012, and the total recovery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u116	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u117	...of wages – yes – in the first months of 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, with the approval of this law, Galicia is the first Autonomous Community to pass by law the return of another 25% of the extra payment of December 2012. And finished as Castelao said: "Don't put a stain on the work while it's not over." Whatever you think's wrong, you work on it. There's room for everyone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica of amending groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u119	It is certainly a pity that the bill had not been adopted to introduce the work of Castelao, because it seems that some people want to take over the work of Castelao, not let the people know it. [[Laughter]] No, it's just that you want to be appropriate, not for the sake of this country and the work of Castile, but simply so that others have no right to know it, to hide it from the people. But let's get to the subject we're dealing with. To me the most admiring of the People's Party is the ability not to be responsible for anything, of nothing! Those responsible are always others. The Zapatero or the bipartite or Andalusian whatever, but, of course, the Union has no responsibility for anything, which makes them useless, and to have a useless government, the truth is that it had little to do with the Greeks and the Greeks. So, because they're so useless and they're unable to make a policy that returns three years and a little bit from a two-party government, they resign, so the people can put in someone who knows how to govern and who has the ability to rule. You're lying, but you're also asking us for an act of faith. Mrs. Paula Prado just asked us for an act of faith. One hundred percent will be paid in January 2017. Because the People's Party says so! Where is he? Where is that commitment in writing, where are the amounts? Absolute lie, question of faith! So there is also no commitment to the return of usurped rights or wage cuts that affect other shares. Nor is there any commitment to ending the recruitment into law fraud that preprives the possible workers of the Galician Union. That's not what you're talking about either. Therefore, demagoxy. To say that we tabled amendments because we don't want them to cover that part, 25%, of the extra payment in October, it has to be really plans! It's a flat argument. It is an unworthy argument of this parliament. It is an argument – without a sense of offense – stupid. Because here we are saying precisely that we bring the claims of workers and public workers transmitted through their legal representation. And to say that it hurts us that Galicia is economically healthy and that it is solvent, another stupidity! I mean, an intervention, by the People's Party, that for nothing defended the measure and that he simply devoted himself to releasing empty phrases of any kind of content. Mrs. Prado said that the derogation from Law 1/2012 prevents the return of the extra payment, another lie! What it requires is to immediately return all usurped rights, all usurped rights! And as for the recovery of the surplus of high office, obviously the problem is that it applied to everyone, not only to high office, and that is a matter of negotiation with the legal representation of workers and workers. But look, I'm going to say, well done, in addition, your Business Council! I've just received a report from the People's Valedor on the trienniums owed to the workers before 2007, and says the People's Valedor: We started the timely proceedings before the Business Council against what was the complaint about the payout of the trienniums made prior to the entry into force of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee. When we looked at the different arguments put forward by the Administration, we felt that, equally applicable to each of the foundations that we moved to the submitted suggestion, the overall configuration of these argumental lines would lead us to reaffirm ourselves in the position already indicated in the reference suggestion. With the counsellor's response analysis, we understand that the people's Valator's suggestion is not accepted. In this sense, we draw attention to the Conseilerie d'Ovenda in the way that the autonomous administration of Galicia, with a unique legal personality, in which the Councilerie of Culture is included, in which it accepted the suggestion of the People's Valedor, fulfilling the payment of the trienies. If he did not obtain an appropriate justification from the Conseilerie de Tovenda, for not acting on this agreement, a critical comment will be included in the report of the People's Valator to Parliament. I mean, the People's Valator himself recognizes that the Town Councillor is not willing to pay for and fulfill the commitments made to the workers and public workers. We don't say that anymore, says the People's Valor himself. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, you're lying violently. Look, you said that if the amendments made by the parliamentary groups were approved, 26.23% of the extra pay could not be paid to the officials in October. It's a lie, it's a lie! If you approve the amendment to return with alternative text presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, which in its final third provision states that this law will enter into force the day following its publication, if you approve this and tomorrow the law will be published in the Official Journal of Galicia, if you approve this and tomorrow it will be published in the Official Journal of Galicia, it will be in force, and you may already advise that the nominees are made to return 26.23%. Therefore, Mrs Prado, mind, mind! Just like mind and mind, just like mind when you say you can't approve our amendment with your alternative text because you can't approve Article 2, where you say you have to pay the other 50% to public employees, because there's no legal authorization. I'm just laughing, Mrs. Prado! And to pay him when he tells you, that we have to believe in the Magi, that he's going to pay the councillor, is there legal clearance? Oh, of course! There isn't for now, but for the letter to the Magi who tells the Counsellor that we have to believe him and that he has to believe the public employees, so there is legal authority! And also mind, Mrs Prado, mind, because she's a liar and that's why she's a liar... yes, yes, because a person who goes out here lying is a liar, and you're a liar when you say that in the law of public employment she's already collected that in the case of IT she's paid 100 percent, because article 143.(a) of Law 2/2015, of Galicia's public employment, states that from day 0 to 3 she'll be paid up to 50%, from room to quarter, up to 75%. [[Interruptions.]] Therefore, Mrs. Prado, lie to you more than you speak. [[Murmurs.]] More than you're lying! And finally, look, ladies and gentlemen, here are two alternatives we have to vote on right now. One is the alternative of the People's Party, which has a single article, and that article says that before – not in October 2015 – it will be paid to the public employees of Galicia at 26.23% of the extra pay they stole in 2012. End of date. He doesn't put anything else on. Nothing else, end of date. It's the only one that sets the law of the People's Party. Moreover, Counsellor, in the judicial memory it is clear, and it is clear in the economic memory that what would cost you to pay extra money to public employees is 215 million euros, and what you qualify is 56.5 million euros scarce. So there's no chance of returning more than you put here: 26.23%. Option B, the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which can enter into force last morning if you wish to send this to the CEO tomorrow. Tomorrow, or a)return it before it ends October 26.23%. (b) Return it before the end of the year 50%. (c)Give him back the extra payments and the supplements that make him bluffed with extra payments in 2013, 2014 and 2015 and don't tell him what's left of them by December 2012. (d)Give you back 100 percent in the case of IT, and for that we need to amend the Public Employment Act, it's not negotiating. Give them back their own business days and vacation days by antiquity, and for that we have to change the law, it's not worth negotiation, as we put ourselves here. And finally, last point. Derogate, yes ma'am, Law 1/2012, because regardless of the manipulation that Mrs. Prado wanted to make about that law, the essential thing about that law is that for the first time in history a collective agreement was left on wet paper, if she gets to do a company, I suppose we'd put in jail the businessman who does that. For the first time in history, they took away labor and social rights from public employees. So here's what we have to decide, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is, if we take the hair of the public employees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u123	...refunding 26% and telling them to continue to believe in the Magi, or if we really approve a law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u125	...to return to them what we've stolen in recent years. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u127	Mrs. Peace, you and I believe that we are neither professed Catholics nor practitioners, I will add to this that Mrs. Prado's lie the following: in her Catholic practice lying is sin, Mrs. Prado. Lying is sin, and here you lied repeatedly. You tell me, you told me on several occasions, I refer to the facts. Therefore, lying is sin, so go to the confessional, Mrs. Prado, who will give you a heart attack. Don't worry, I'll confess. Mind. But do you know what the problem is, Mrs. Prado? The problem is that I think the Counsellor, who is present here, will have some more rigor than you, and will know the Counsellor who, when we speak of the abolition of 5,082 public jobs in Galicia, are public reports! I hope, Counselor, that, indeed, you know that data which omits or misses or distorts your voice in this case in defense of this text. Secondly, Counsellor, it has been said here that 251 million were actually paid in the global and 56 in concrete, in Galicia, with a budget split. Really, it would be bad! What happens is that I'm going to read article 9 to make it clear and stop lying to the workers and public workers who are watching us, who know perfectly well that this electoral alms will not change the meaning of their vote in December. And Article 9 literally says: The extraordinary credits and credit supplements granted in this standard will be financed with public debt. It doesn't say alternative left-wing Galician, says that text that has the march of a ministry and that also carries the collection of the People's Party. Public debt. It would be quite interesting if the spokesperson of the People's Party told us, when he comes back here, why. Tell us why. Which explains why, if we're left behind in his speech. Tell us why. This withholding talent had a negative effect. As it is collected in a norm, man!, it would be convenient for someone to explain to us what happened here. Why they assaulted and threw researchers and researchers out of this country, and now, in a rule that I quote literally, it turns out that it was a mistake and had negative effects. Home!, give us some explanation of what's happened and indeed change your policies. Indeed, Mrs. Prado, yours is... apart from your lack of elegance with which you have said of Mrs. Sestayo... yes, I will. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course I defend it because it's a lack of elegance. Of course it is, a lack of elegance! Mrs Prado, in the debate on the Public Employment Act, you know that there has been a permanent discursive trap on the part of the People's Party, which brings cause of the Continence Fund, in which we are promised this extra sine die payment. And you, when the opposition spokesmen made amendments to the Public Employment Act and we told them they were lying, they told us that at all. Now it turns out they recognize the truth, that in the Public Employment Act it couldn't be. Just like they're lying when they're talking about what I've told them, which is to prevent the social protection coverage of public employees and public employees to take care of and end up in the private company with the few rights that exist. Yes, Mrs. Prado, this is the reality of your deeds, and that was neither the Socialist Party nor the most holy Mary, you were in law. You were in a law, attacking workers and public workers. [[Murmurs.]] I am not a Catholic, Mr. President, I can say the most holy Mary and nothing happens. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u128	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u129	And look, it would also be very interesting if they explain to us what's going to happen with the judgments that have been passed, because, as the rule tells us, they're only going to reduce the amounts that they demand or allow the text. Are they going to tell us when they're going to charge the workers and the public workers who have recognized those judgments? It would be very interesting, Counselor. It would be very interesting. You've seen enough debates in this House, the judgments won by workers and public workers. Then they keep playing mugged games. They keep thinking people are stupid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u130	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u131	But out there, the opposition groups that we meet with the public workers and workers, we know they don't believe them, not even those who voted for the People's Party. Jan doesn't bring, and they don't want any more electoral stamps, which is this 26.23%, by the way, making politics a lousy thing. That's what they just did, a disgust, counsellor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u133	Thank you, President. Mrs. Paula Prado, I see you very worried about me, but look, my pockets we buy me, and the "Mayan Bee" only the little track in drawings. It's the difference between them. [[Applause]] By entering the debate, you should review your data, because in 2010, when Super Zapatero ruled in Spain, the debt was 60% of GDP. Today, the July data – and I will be rigorous –... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u134	Quiet, please. If you speak, you can't hear anything. No, no, quiet. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u135	...the July data that can be consulted right now – surely the advisor knows – the debt is – it's going to be absolutely strict – at 96.59% of GDP. The... Mr. President had to come. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u136	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u137	...relaxing cup, please! For this, he had to come to the illustrious president who doesn't know how to acquire or lose Spanish nationality, and he doesn't speak of Spain! Of course, it is also, of course, the illustrious president who guides the speech of the People's Group and the adviser in this debate, mixing wages with specific supplements, wage rights with labour rights. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seems that the enormous philosopher is ignoring all the philosophers, Mr. Rajoy: "that a glass is a glass and a dish is a dish." [[Applause]] The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, without mixing pears with apples, we already know that with Ana Botella there is a different result, because they are different components and cannot be mixed, and trying to learn from all the distinguished representatives of the People's Party who have held magnificent positions and who have taught us magnificent and extraordinary teachings to bring to this debate, to me, Mr. Counsellor, tell me where. [[Murmurs.]] I regret that, if you are going to answer, what you are going to say, firstly, where is, in this legal text presented today, the return of 100 percent of the extra payments. I remind you that in the law the text says it returns 26.23%. It's just, of course, a glass is a glass and it's not 100 percent. So, on the one hand, there's an advertisement, and on the other hand, there's the legal text that the People's Party is submitting today, which is 26.23%. Secondly, tell me where that return is going to take place – whether it is entirely or not – in the month of October. Because, indeed, if we turn to the legal text, Counsellor, we will see that there is no time limit for return, so to speak. Thirdly, Counsellor, I object to your saying in which article is planned – provision, preamble, what you say about the legal text, even knowing that they only have binding effect on the precepts – where comes the return of the rest of the labor and trade union rights you talk about in public employment, because it is true that the legal text does not contemplate it. I used to mention the requirement of the People's Valedor, the answer to a citizen, saying that the councillor, the Government of Greece, violates the rights of the Trienniums, to whom, however, they have the right by law. And that, Counsellor, is the People's Value in respect of the Council of Galicia, not the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the opposition groups. On the other hand, the courts and courts of Galicia, in an immensely overwhelming way, condemn them to the return of the whole, not the part that you want to return or the part that you want to enable. They're forcing the courts and the judges -- we know what little respect they have for Justice, except when they say what you want -- what they say is that they have to give them all back. So, Counselor, there's only one chance -- and I'm done -- and they think about the amendments presented by the opposition to return a hundred percent in a period of time. By the way, I hope that in addition to your pledges will be collected in the next budgets with the offer of public employment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Sestayo. Debate on the Proposal for a Law to Present Before the Congress of Deputies, by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, organ of transfer of the ownership and competence of AP-9 to the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u139	For the presentation of the Bill, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd comment now before I go out, half a joke, but I don't know how much, that in this country the important things are always discussed at lunchtime. I suppose that's why no government member is here today, and that about four o'clock in the afternoon, when we vote on this initiative, they're worthy to appear here; the advisor, as she doesn't have to vote, at least not, perhaps the president and the vice president. In any case, even if it's two and a half o'clock in the afternoon, we're going to debate today about a matter that we consider has a lot of political transcendence to our country, like the transfer of AP-9. It is true that this is not the first time that this issue is being debated in this Parliament or in the Congress of Members, but it must be pointed out that it is and the first time that we are going to debate it through this formulation, that it is a bill of law, which would actually allow us to be able to take steps, to take ourselves into consideration, so that the transfer of AP-9 is a reality, and that finally, after so many years of debate on this issue, we can actually move from words to facts, which is what politics is for, to convert what we stand for into reality through ideas. From the Galego Nationalist Block, we consider it illogical that in Galicia, which has recognized its infrastructure competences, is kept to AP-9 as a state-owned infrastructure. We also understand that AP-9 is a symbol of the aggravation with which our country has ruled since Madrid. I don't know if at some point Mr. Feijóo – he's worried about Catalonia's affairs – has stopped thinking about the outrage he's supposed to keep the AP-9 in the situation he's in right now, because we understand that it's not just an aggravating, but also a show of how since central governments apply a policy that clearly responds to that colonial role. We are to be clearly paying for these infrastructures and the benefits of large business groups. But also the situation of AP-9 is clearly an example of how the privatization of infrastructure – which has brought Mr Aznar forward in this case – was against our general interest. It only served to make some great profits and we have here today a great mortgage for our development that goes very far towards the Greeks and the Greeks. We are therefore faced with an important question: today we defend that AP-9 depends on the Greeks and the Greeks and not on the arbitrary decisions of the Government in Madrid. Because AP-9 is more than 219 kilometers, it's a key infrastructure in the articulation of a very important strip of our territory, the most populated strip, where most of the population lives; it communicates 5 of the 7 cities in our country, and it's also the area where greater economic activity is registered. So we are faced with an infrastructure that plays a very important role in terms of the mobility of the Greeks and the Greeks, but it also has a great impact on our economic activity. We have to say that we find it very shocking that in the face of a question of these characteristics, with the importance it has, the German Government had put in a drawer that proposal that they were in favour of the transfer of AP-9. We are, of course, before a government that is clearly in decline, without political impulse, and that simply, in this AP-9 issue, is the transmission of what is decided in Madrid and has no initiative in this area. Of course, we are very critical of the passatism of the People's Party and the Council of Galicia in this matter, and, in any case, we believe that today we can take a step towards overcoming – as we say – that passatism. And we also understand that today the People's Party should recognize its responsibilities in the great mortgage we have today at AP-9, because we understand that the PP has a lot to do with having one of the most expensive highways in the state today and also with one of the beaches that we are going to pay for more years for the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, it's a real scandal we've had in our country two of the highways of the entire Spanish state that have concessions for more years. AP-9 I think it'll be of the few highways that will be paid for 75 years nothing more and nothing less! He recovered from public funds, privatized the price of balance, and the Greeks and the Greeks will continue to pay for that highway until 2048. Of course, a whole mortgage not only for the mobility of the Greeks and the Greeks, but also for the whole of this country. We also see as a real scandal that, knowing AP-9's collection data, the Ministry of Development publishes a series of reports in which it also intends to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that this highway is not amortized, because in the last report published by the Ministry, where it makes an assessment of the fees in the Spanish state as a whole, it says that AP-9 is only amortized by 25%. Of course, to us this data surprises us and much. And I say we're surprised because, according to the Audasa itself, the construction, conservation and operation of the motorway involved an investment of some 1,428 million euros. From 1979 to today, more than €2,257 million has been collected on this motorway. So we're clearly in front of something that has no relationship whatsoever. How can the State say that this highway is not amortized when it is really at stake much more than its cost and the benefits that this company has, of course, exceed much of the investments that have been made in this infrastructure? We also see how this road is, of course, a gift for the company that owns it. It was noted that AP-9, which represents a very small part in kilometres of the number of motorways in the Spanish State, represents 7.6% of the total that was collected throughout the Spanish State in 2013 at rates. Of course, it's a significant figure that points out how far mobility in Galicia is indirectly recorded, as if we had a tax on circulation. And it's also a tax that doesn't go to the public age, but it's going so that this company can split up into very large dividends. In the middle of the crisis – according to these latest data – in 2013, Audasa distributed almost 30 million euros in profits; 30 million euros that came out of the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. But if this is a problem at the level of people's mobility, it's also a problem for a sector like the transport sector, which you know, thanks to Feijóo, it also has one of the highest costs for the increase in fuel taxes, which have a high impact on the price of diesel and which also cause a very important part, in order to be able to mobilize, has to pay one of the highest taxes in the state. And this has a very important impact not only on the transport sector but also on our economy, because most of Galicia's goods are moving by road, and this is exacerbating and making it difficult, within this logic that you apply, even the position of the Greek products right now on the market. But none of this matters to the People's Party, and we continue to see that you are not only responsible for the abusive rise of the fees, that we have concessions that extend in time this way, but that we are also debtors, therefore, of a position that hinders the decisions we can make in relation to AP-9. We, in any case, believe that it is much better to have the ability to decide what's going on with this highway than just to be seeing what the central government is doing on this issue. That is why we propose and make a proposal in which we request, in Article 1, the transfer of the ownership of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia – we understand that this would mean that we are going to have competence to be able to allow new arrangements to be put in service; to adapt or reform existing ones, as well as links and auxiliary highway routes; and to monitor and inspect the proper functioning of the motorway – a very important issue. Don't we see every year how this AP-9 holds don't happen without anything happening? He denounced our spokesperson at the Congress of Deputies these days as they are announced, every time there are these kinds of queues, sanctions to the AP-9 that then always remain in nothing. In other words, the central government participates in a theatre where the only thing that really favors this kind of practice is that AP-9 continues to have a series of performances in our country that are really scandalous and that they don't respect the Greeks and the Greeks. This law also refers, therefore, to matters that are very important to us. In the law we refer to the fact that the exercise of transferred competence must be assumed by the Autonomous Community at the time when the transfer of the necessary material and budgetary means has been implemented, which must be dealt with through a joint transfer commission, and in any case this whole process must be carried out within the six months following the entry into force of the law. In conclusion, for the Galego Nationalist Block today this initiative is a step forward so that the Greeks and the Greeks have the ability to decide about our infrastructures, and in particular about one that has a great deal of relevance in our country, such as the AP-9, because we also understand that for the exercise of the competences that we have in theory recognized in the child Autonomy Statute that is currently in force in our country and so that we can make a comprehensive and visional planning of what our infrastructures are, having competences on which they operate in our territory is fundamental; therefore, we also understand that this is a key issue, because transferring the competition to Galicia implies that we will be the ones who decide what the fees are, and it also implies having the ability to modify the conditions in which this concession is, which we believe is a very relevant issue for the future of our country. It's clear that the fact that this is a state competition is the only thing that has provoked our country is more expensive and contempt for even the fees they have in other parts of the state. It is good not to lose sight that we are facing one of the least discounted highways for users and users and that even with money from the Galician Union we are paying the liberalisation of a part of the fee because it was a very important issue for an area of the territory. And, therefore, the State has misunderstood those issues that matter to our country and it has had to be the Greek Government itself – we understand that covering what should be an obligation of the State Government itself – which is devoting the same resources to eliminating some of the fees that are part of the AP-9. So we understand that this is a fair claim and that it is an important claim for the future of the country. I am sure that no group in the House will be disappointed at what has been said at other times and that this initiative will be taken into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u142	I shall begin by announcing my support for taking into account this proposal for a law tabled by the BNG, since I consider it an obligation of the Greek Government to claim all transfers necessary to be able to implement its policies in line with Galicia's interests in accordance with its territorial cohesion. And, within these essential transfers, is the ownership and competence of AP-9 because it is the most trafficked route and the backbone of road transport in Galicia. During the first month of this year 18,187 vehicles used on average each day the highway, compared to the 17,581 of the same month of 2014 and to the 13,085 average daily vehicles in the state highways. In 2014, 20,734 vehicles used the highway on average every day. Last January some more than 563,000 vehicles used some of the 219 kilometres of the highway; 18,700 more than in the previous year. The freeway to the Atlantic is one of the most cost-effective payment routes in the corners of the state's high-capacity network. That profitability didn't even have the slightest effect on shortening the vigil time of the fee, but quite the opposite. With successive enlargements in the vigil of the collection, AP-9 has become one of the only three motorways of the state in which the concession period reaches 75 years: one, the AP-9; the other, it is also in Galicia, the A-53, Santiago-Alto de Santo Domingo, which wins 2074; and the other that remains – also has much to do with communication from our country – is A-66, from León-Campomans. The German transport entrepreneurship is convinced that Galicia is discriminated against in relation to the rest of the State, both by the duration of its concessions and by the rates of its fees, by the lack of time prices and by the lack of competitive road alternatives. This discrimination is much more serious given the peripheral situation of Galicia and its impact on the transport of people and goods. The fact that three highways of other autonomous communities and of the same generation that AP-9 will become free in four years, while AP-9 will continue to have to pay until 2048, is the demonstration of this discrimination. The three highways that came into operation in the seventies, such as AP-9, will become free before the present decade is completed, while the payment road that runs through Galicia from north to south will have another 28 years more to pay. The first one where the copper cabs will disappear will be AP-1, which joins Burgos and Arminón in Álava. The Committee on the Promotion of Congress voted unanimously to refuse to extend the concession to release from traffic to N-1. Another will be AP-7, the Tarragona-Alacant motorway. The last fee will be paid at noon on December 31, 2019. The following AP-4, Seville-Cádiz, will also cease to count toll at the end of 2019. AP-9 is sufficiently amortized – as the BNG spokesman said. Galicia supports the rates for tallest trucks in the state network, damaging the exports of Galicia. But it's also one of the most expensive highways for citizenship in general, turning into a real business the main road of communication by Galicia road. And, to finish, the problems in AP-9 are continuous due to the usurious use of the dealership and the conviviality of the Union and the State: continuous jams in the entrances and exits of the big cities. I live in Vigo. The entrance to Vigo is not a lockdown, it is an attack on the security of the people who want to access Vigo, with a diversion that turns into a funnel for access to the most populated city of Galicia and the most industrialized city. You're still stuck during the summer season at the entrance and exit of the coastal villages, turning access to them into a real calvary. We're still jamming in our jobs because of a lack of personnel; a staff who was fired after successive ERE by the concessionary company, closing the cabs and putting the automatic payment, in a total outburst of contempt by the Greeks and the Galicians, and with a destruction of jobs allowed by both the Union and the Government of the State. A poor horizontal signaling. The highway's firm is entrepreneurial, both in its state of conservation and in the painting of horizontal signaling, where many times – especially at night – it is impossible not even to distinguish the limits of the motorway itself. A poor cleaning of the shores, where the mist ends up occupying part of the highway, despite the fact that lately, in order to reduce costs, the dealership is dedicated to poisoning our territory – the mountains and the lands that border the highway –, putting out that poison that burns everything that is born there and that is unable to fight against our land, which, in spite of everything, continues to produce its greenery. Lack of waterways in several kilometers between Vigo and Pontevedra. Of course, the highway between Vigo and Pontevedra is anything but a highway. He doesn't have a chance to save an accident at any given moment; so, every time there's an accident at Vigo's entrance – between Vigo and Pontevedra – he becomes a big trap because there's nowhere to run; it's a danger. The people we do the Vigo-Pontevedra route should pay us to put our lives in danger by using that highway. Don't laugh because it doesn't make me any fun to spend every day on that highway playing life and seeing how other people play their lives in the laughter of the German Government and the Galician People's Party. I don't think they're laughing, Mr. Tellado, it seems unworthy, because it's a very serious problem of road safety, very serious! and you seem to mind very little. But we also have to talk about the discrimination that the people of Roundola suffer, that they must go to Vigo if they want to attend the university or the public hospital. And yet he was not granted freeness in the way between Roundola and Vigo, in a clear discrimination and which was rejected in a non-law proposal which I myself presented in this Parliament. By the above – because Galicia has to be the owner of its roads, establishing its regime according to the social and economic interests of the Galician society, trying to vertebrate and cohesion its territory – it is necessary, it is essential, that the Government of Greece claim the transfer of the title and competences of the AP-9. That the People's Party rejects this bill only because of its interest in continuing to be a colony of the Spanish State and to cease to exercise its functions in order to continue to be protected. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, Mr Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u144	Good morning to all of you. That no one is responsible for the privatizations of AP-9 or the extension of concessions – and those responsible for being in the situation that we are in front of justice, or paying for what they have done and for the decisions they have made – talks a lot about the institutions and the laws we have, and explains why we say that the institutions and laws are not for everyone, nor are they designed for all the same. There are the chains full of people who are victims of the system -- they're like that topic that says "chains and justice full of thefts" -- and, on the other hand, those who steal us full of hands are the ones who handle the whipping. When we talk about the democratic rupture of the regime and when we talk about nationalism, we don't talk about abstraction, we talk about these things. Institutions and laws are designed to benefit the specific interests of certain companies, individuals and to punish, on the other hand, the interests – in this case – of the majority. When it comes to friendship capitalism – I don't know anyone else, but... – you're talking, for example, about the AP-9 highway, which so far is the story of a real looting. A lot of data has already been said here. This law is going to be an infrastructure for the service of citizenship, not for the service of companies. We have talked here, many times, about how it is possible that the privatization of the management of an infrastructure whose management is not at all complicated, as if justified by the socializations of losses when we have to rescue this, and we have already talked about the history of the business: how, after being rescued, it was privatized, sold to the Valahermoso Sacyr for 900 million euros – which, within a few years, sold without making a single investment and took out millionsary gains–. But, that is, for an infrastructure privatized by 900 million euros, from 2011 to 2048 it will be charged 9,500 million euros in fees. In those years the planned investments amount to EUR 148 million, and the financial expenditure of EUR 1,600 million. We can tell data showing the scandal permitted by specific decisions of the People's Party when in 2003 he sold this, when in 2003 he extended the concession until 2048 and, as was said here, two of the three highways in which, at 75 years of age, they are charged with damages, are in Galicia. Since its privatization, the fees have increased by more than 60%, a percentage that almost doubles the IPC – no, that doubles the IPC during that period –; in the last seven years Audasa has achieved benefits of 400 million euros; from 2008 to 2012, partners have divided by 243 million euros. In a situation of economic rationality, in a sector at regulated prices, the fees should be used to cover the costs of exploitation, to depreciate investment and, even – according to the logic prevailing in capitalist societies – to establish a normal profit margin for the company that recovers the capital flow of shareholders. But in Audasa, taking advantage of its monopoly with the complicity of governments, the profitability of capital is not normal, it is not within the limits of reasonable, it does not move on the margins of competing companies – as it is easy to verify in the company's official accounts, available on the company's website –. Year after year, profitability on sales exceeds 50%, an extraordinarily high figure that is not within the reach of virtually no company operating on markets open to competition; but the profitability of the invested capital is even more sharp: Audasa's social capital is EUR 196 million and reaches average profitability, year after year, which exceeds 30%. One last equation that allows us to better value the company's extraordinary or better indecent profitability: if we compare the profits, before the tax accumulated since 2006, with social capital, an accumulated profitability of 290 percent is achieved. The shareholders have almost won the triple in these years, only in these years, of what they have brought to society. In a few years, the Atlantic Highway increased from 156 kilometres to 219 – it increased 28% of the kilometres – but revenues increased from 47 million euros to 119 – it increased by 156%. A situation of abuse of power, of monopoly. And it's even more outrageous when you analyze the fate of these enormous benefits: nothing to improve the highway, no to improve services, the biggest investment Audasa makes is to automate the collection and fire people, and operating expenses are reduced every year by redeployment of staff. The same thing happens, too, with the elimination of fees, which is at all nothing more than a guarantee for the company to collect, not the taxes of the Greeks, but the budgets of the Galician Union. And I think it's good enough data to show that this is a robbery and that someone allowed it, Mr. Gómez Alonso, yes or no? Is it a profitable operation for the people or is it a negative operation for the people? Mr. Gómez Alonso. It's very profitable, isn't it? With data in hand you can calculate that Audasa reaches 12% profitability over social capital; that's: in each year, with the benefits it has, so that it has a 10 percent profit margin over social capital every year, the rates could be reduced by 30% to 35%. In short, this is a looting consented by the orders of those who truly send, a guaranteed benefit, a zero risk, profits fly to companies and we pay all the Greeks. And finally, another no less important aspect: it is a highway that is entirely in the territory of Galicia, which goes from north to south and joins four of the most important cities of Galicia, which is costing more than 40 euros, which is very important to climb, to get down; the performances on the beaches or on that infrastructure are crucial to the economy of Galicia and secondary, instead, to the economy of the global state; it is a highway that does not go beyond the borders of Galicia; it is a highway that influences, as it has been said, enormously in the transport sector, in the family economy, in the economy of Galicia companies! and that, instead, it is secondary to the rest of the state; then, it falls from the drawer that the Galician Union has to take over the management of this infrastructure; the rest is, as it was said here, to sell itself to the interests of both Galician and Galician workers, to be sold to other interests. Explain to me how, with these conditions that I have just explained – which is decisive for our economy, which does not come out of our borders – you think it should not be transferred to the Council of Galicia. I look forward to the explanations by Mr. Gómez Alonso, who I know will talk about Pepe Blanco and Zapatero, but I hope he explains to me why he considers that the successive privatisation, sale and extension of concessions operations were a good business for all of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Socialist Group, Mr Raúl Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u146	Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is aware of the debate on this agenda item: we are debating the consideration of the bill, the initiative of the Nationalist Galego Block, to present before the Congress of Deputies, with the aim of transferring the title and competences of AP-9 to the Galician Union. This road infrastructure has been the subject of multiple initiatives and the corresponding debates in this legislation and also in the previous ones, initiatives that have reached tariffs, retentions of passenger cabs, expansions at different points of this infrastructure, maintenance and conservation and, of course, the benefits and beneficiaries of its operation. The accumulation of initiatives and debates on AP-9 underscores its importance to Galicia and the Greeks. In fact, the AP-9 motorway turns out to be Galicia's main road of communication and the main roadway that connects the north to the south and the south to the north; in itself it just puts us at the gates of the Cantabrian Cornix, Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, France... and at the doors, too, on the coast, Portugal. It is located in the area of residence around 50% of the population of Galicia, able to directly relate five of the big cities of our country – La Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Pontevedra and Vigo –; in its long journey, it channels and supports and integrates the intense daily traffic of cities, villages and peoples of the Atlantic Strip, even it turns out to be the confluence line of social, commercial and industrial movements. The AP-9 therefore vertebrates communication between the main western cities of Galicia and plays a decisive role in the integration and articulation of the Welsh road system, boosting mobility and generating and ordering the road communications system. AP-9 turns out to be an essential artery of connection and articulation of our territory, a strategic infrastructure, vital for Galicia, as well as a fundamental instrument of social and economic vertebration. The Atlantic Highway must play a full role in putting it to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks, not to the service of other interests at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks. AP-9 was born with the vocation of being a permanent opportunity for growth in Galicia. Today, it remains essential, but it does not fulfill that role. That role of generating added value to which beneficiaries were users changed from recipients by political decisions of the People's Party governments. The social perception is that the opportunity for Galicia representing AP-9 changed by political decisions in a exclusively economic opportunity for the concessionaire. AP-9 is losing that attraction and its role as a growth bench. Every year that's gone by, it's no longer an added value for society and for the economy of the Greeks and the Greeks, and it's becoming an insufferable burden, insufferable for families and businesses. Loads that impose the current management of AP-9 to fatten its benefits: permanent ups of the fees – even the VAT –, different prices on the different tranches with merely revenue, no type of tariff bonus depending on the times or seasons of the year. The Ministry of Development itself places AP-9 as one of Spain's most expensive motorways for the different categories of vehicles. Thus, for category 3 vehicles it has the highest usage prices in Spain; for category 2 vehicles it has the third most expensive prices in Spain; for category 1 vehicles it is the second most expensive in Spain. The final result of this AP-9 management model is conclusive, and only provides a couple of data. In the state network, on average, the cost is EUR 0.035 per kilometre, or what is the same, 3.5 cents per kilometre. In AP-9, the cost is EUR 0.162 per kilometer, or what's the same, 16.2 cents per kilometer; 4.6 times more. The full journey of AP-9 has a cost of 20 euros for a light vehicle and more than 44 euros for a heavy vehicle. Ladies and gentlemen, AP-9 is a vital road infrastructure for Galicia's growth, which has lost its dynamizer role by applying a management model that reduces the benefits of users in favour of the concessionaire. With this model, the Greeks and the Greeks lost, and the concessionaire would always win. The Socialist Group has repeatedly expressed itself and is clearly in favour of the transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to the Galician Union. We believe that this self-sustainment highway, along a narrow path in the territory of the autonomous community, should be assumed by the Galician Union to exploit its full potential for the benefit of our country. We think it's possible. Allow him the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia and allow the Constitution. We believe that it is necessary on the basis of the multiple arguments that we give the different voices. And we think it's appropriate. Of course, I am not going to make a comprehensive assessment of the articulate and the positions of the bill – when there will be for that, whenever the People's Group permits it – because we consider that the really important thing today is to take into account this proposed law that the Socialist Group will support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u147	Thank you very much. People's Group. You have the word Mr. Alejandro Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pontón, we do not know from the People's Parliamentary Group whether the debates in this House, the important debates that you consider the most important, are always held at lunchtime. We honestly don't know. What is clear is that you're wrong when you say our environmental advisors aren't here. Just when you were criticizing Mrs. Environmental Counsellor, who wasn't here looking, for here's the Mrs. Environment Advisor, face-to-face, Mrs. Pontón. Our advisors have always looked forward to their political decisions on territorial policy and infrastructure, and you know why, Mrs. Pontón? Because for us infrastructure policies have always been one of the key axes for the modernization of our country, for the vertebration of our country and for the territorial cohesion of our country. Nebargents, lords, for nationalists and socialists infrastructure policies have always been a parapet or an excuse for making election announcements. It's very curious that this nationalist initiative is present when we're at the door of a general election. Mrs. Pontón said here, without any appearance, that AP-9 was a sign of aggravating both because it did not transfer, and we understand also because it was built. I suppose Mrs Pontón – who has been here longer than this speaker – will remember that in 2006 this People's Parliamentary Group presented this same initiative, and do you know what was the answer we had from her parliamentary group and from the Socialist Parliamentary Group? Insults and discredits, Mrs. Pontón. Insults and discredits. If AP-9 is an aggravating symbol, its non-transfer, we want to understand it this way, why when we asked for this in 2006, did you insult us and discredit us? And curiously, Mrs Pontón, nine years earlier, when we discussed here this same initiative, this claim for the transfer of AP-9 was described as pathetic. By defending the transfer of AP-9 from the People's Parliamentary Group we have been qualified as cynics, cynics! What's more, you've even come to the task of asking us to withdraw the request for the transfer of AP-9. There was here a spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group who was, by the way, a very good Member. And of course, you nine years ago voted against AP-9 transfers, and today they say it's a sign of a serious non-AP-9 transfer. What we also doubt is that you not only voted against the transfer of AP-9 in 2006, but you and Mr Jorquera, each in their respective parliaments, also saved their respective motions of reprobation against Minister Magdalena Álvarez, both in the German Parliament and in the Congress of Members. We don't know if it was because it was the way to educate Madrid, which Mr. Quintana said, or because they were afraid of Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez. The case is that some people change speech, over time or under circumstances, in a surprising way. What we would also like to remember, ladies and gentlemen, is that this refusal to transfer AP-9 into the bipartisan legislature leads us to conclude another very important issue: that there are parties with political personality and that there are parties without political personality. We can say it clearly, we are a party with political personality because since our parliamentary group we have continued to defend the role that highways play in our country's economy, high-performance routes and also structural roads, and in particular now we are talking about the importance of the Atlantic motorway. The spokesman for the Alternative Gaga de Left doubted the importance of the freeway of the Atlantic, is truly surprising. If you don't know the economic effects of the Atlantic highway in our country, you should study them and review them so you won't say that it was of no economic importance or economic importance in this country. Moreover, it's the main way on which our parents' main high-performance pathways are established. It's the main route and axis on which the entire radio communications and territorial vertebration system is established. Therefore, the functionality of this motorway to Galicia is indisputable, just like the other highways there are and the other high-performance routes. Mrs Pontón has also confirmed with great conviction that this is a transit government, which is a government without political initiative. Well, if this is a government without political initiative, why when you were supporting Mr. Zapatero's government this didn't decide to transfer AP-9 to Galicia's board? If this is a government with no political initiative, why did you sit in Montepío, with Mr. Quintana at the front, not decide to apply for this transfer from the Atlantic Highway? How do you qualify the attitude of the Government that you so defended? How, Mrs Pontón, to say that this is a government without political initiative? Look, the truth is that we continue to reaffirm that this highway is very important for Galicia, that this highway runs entirely through the territory of our country, and that this highway, in addition, will allow us to increase our heritage by more than 3,000 million euros and will allow us to do something we have been defending for a long time, which is to apply a fair and homogeneous pricing policy for all its users, Mrs. Pontón. I don't know if you know that this parliamentary group, this political formation, when you won the elections in 2009, has introduced a fee policy that is being applied on the two German highways, with discounts ranging from 50% to 25%. So we're running our electoral program, and we'd like to extend that pricing policy to other highways, as is the case that we're debating today, from the Atlantic Highway, and so we stand up for it in 2009. But you're clear that they're changing their speech because they have no responsibility at the moment. And we also agreed that this transfer makes all the sense when we're also funding 3 million euros a year the freeness of Rande and Barcala for 41 years. But of course, we've established a fair and homogeneous pricing policy for all users. You, ladies and gentlemen, administered the policy of fees as if it were a lottery administration: some pay nothing and others pay the most expensive fees of the state. That's his way of doing politics, but tell the neighbors of Cangas about the neighbors of Roundola. The initiative you supported, of course, the initiative you supported. And now Mrs Pontón comes here to give us lessons on tariff policy and how often we have brought these issues and these initiatives, from the People's Parliamentary Group, this plenary and the Committee on Public Works. So, Mrs. Pontón, I tell you with all due respect and with no accuracy: lessons in the matter of pricing policy, the fair ones, for not saying any. And ladies and gentlemen, not only from the parliamentary group are they making demands about the pricing policy or the rates of AP-9. This Government and this Environment Council have been told to the Ministry of Development that a homogenisation of tariffs must be established within that infrastructure. We need to establish a homogenization, it is not normal that in different ways we draw a sixth of the most expensive of the state and others are in another tariff policy. And I don't know if you know that the current Minister of Development has set a discount on the truce that goes from Vigo to Pontevedra, where on the same day, using teleplay, the return is free for those users. It was said that no investments were made. Home!, to enter Santiago de Compostela is making the third lane. It was said that he was in continuous jams. Home!, Mr. Knight, one of the last times that he came to Santiago, said that Santiago was full of locks, but that to get in and out of Vigo he arrived a minute. Let's see if you agree to the status of the locks or the accessibility that AP-9 has.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u149	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u150	And to finish, ladies and gentlemen, we've been here a few years and we've seen a lot of parliamentary agreements that you've gone ahead and you haven't met. What we can say is that we request the transfer of AP-9 in 2009, that this Government has requested it in the Joint Transfer Commission twice and has made allegations in this regard both in the Ministry of Development's Infrastructure Plan and in the State Road Law Schedule. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of political coherence, we will vote in favour of the processing of this proposal for organic law to conquer among all the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia. So, ladies, let's get to work. That's right, Mrs. Pontón, if you don't mind, after lunch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u151	Replica from the parliamentary group that is the author of the bill. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking all the groups in the House today to support this initiative presented by the Nationalist Block Galego, which is to bring a law to the Congress of Deputies for AP-9 to be transferred. I think it's good news. However, I think there are some issues that the spokesperson of the People's Group has said that they deserve slaughtering in the name of rigor and also in the name of truth, because I believe that manipulation, although PP has been practicing it for many years, should not count on our silence. First of all, if this bill comes to this debate here, on this date, I think you can ask the spokesperson of your group why it is, because, if I am not mistaken, until twice during the last session it has been ruled that the Nationalist Block of Wales could bring this debate to this plenary. And even at the first plenary session, the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group asked, since there were many laws, if any group did not mind withdrawing any of the bills, and our group, for the sake of the development of the plenary and the request made by the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, agreed to delay the debate on this initiative. I imagine at least you'll at least ask your spokesman why he's been vetoing the debate of a legislative initiative in this plenary. I imagine that, since you felt so bad right now, you will ask your spokesman why he has been deliberately delaying and vetoing the debate of this bill. I also want to tell you that I was present at the debate on the initiative you referred to in 2006. I also want to tell you that the Galego Nationalist Block in that debate defended the transfer of AP-9, and explained to you that this initiative was late because the Government of Greece in 2005 had already asked the Government of the State to transfer both AP-9 and A-53, and that was therefore part of the claims that it was now leading the Government forward. There was no dequalification. If we recriminalized him at that time – as we did today – the responsibility of the PP in which we have the most expensive tolls in the state and that we also have one of the highest concessions. Because I think that was the responsibility of a gentleman named Aznar and a minister, Helmets, to whom his Government, among other things, gave him a medal of Castile. Of course, a sad tribute. And I want to tell you, therefore, that the BNG has always defended the same position. He did this here and he did it at the Congress of Deputies, where on many occasions he led the claim that AP-9 had been transferred. And I want to remind you that, if this isn't a reality, it's not because of BNG. It's because the PP, when it ruled, always refused, just like the Socialist Party when it ruled, who had transferred to AP-9. In Congress of two Members, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I also want to make it clear to you that, when we talk about outrage, we're talking about the outrage that the state is going to give this deal to the Greeks and to the Greeks, and that the state is conjugating absolutely clear abuses of the concessionaire of this highway with users and users. I want to tell you that, of course, that's for us, not that Catalans defend their rights. Because in any case, if we had a president – welcome to the debate, Mr. President – as they have in Catalonia or as they have in Euskadi... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u153	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u154	I don't know why they don't respect the presidents of Catalonia and Euskadi. Why don't they respect you? I'm talking about political facts. If we politically had a President who had defended the interests of Galicia just as the Catalans defend their interests, or as the Basques defend their interests, for example, we would have already transferred to AP-9 since 1999. Because in 1999 the Basque Government got the transfer of A-8. And recently the Catalan Government too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u155	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u156	...has achieved the transfer of N-2 and AP-7. And in Galicia what we have seen is the failure of this Government in matters of competence. The President and the Vice-President are correcting me, but I believe that the governments have now achieved zero competences for Galicia. What is it, don't they give them or don't they claim them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Let us turn to the vote on the legislative texts. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u158	Vote on the proposal for a law of popular legislative initiative. Voting of the bill of popular legislative initiative on the right to knowledge and contemplation of the work of Castelao by the people of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u159	We then voted in favour of the draft law so that an extraordinary remuneration is approved in respect of the recovery of the outstanding payment of December 2012 to public sector employees. And first of all, we are voting on the amendments to the whole refund, beginning with the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, to the Bill, so it is approved an extraordinary remuneration in respect of the recovery of the extraordinary payment of December 2012 to employees of the autonomous public sector of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u160	We voted on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to the draft law so it is approved an extraordinary remuneration in respect of the recovery of the extraordinary payment of December 2012 to employees of the autonomous public sector of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u161	We voted on amendments with alternative text, starting with the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the whole with alternative text, from G.P. Jointly, the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration for the recovery of the outstanding payment of December 2012 to employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u162	We voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, also with alternative text. Voting the amendment to the whole, with alternative text, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to the draft law so it is approved an extraordinary remuneration in respect of the recovery of the extraordinary payment of December 2012 to employees of the autonomic public sector of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u163	Finally, we voted for the bill. Voting of the Bill is therefore approved for an extraordinary remuneration in respect of the recovery of the outstanding payment of December 2012 to employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 2; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. The draft law was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u164	Finally, we voted to take the bill into consideration to present before the Congress of Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, an organ of transfer of the ownership and competence of AP-9 to the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. This bill is therefore unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u165	This bill is adopted unanimously and will therefore continue its parliamentary process. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4.45 p.m. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u166	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session with point three, of full appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Councilor for the Environment, Territory and Infrastructure, on his own request, to report on the plans of the Galician Union for the promotion of sustainable mobility
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u167	You have the floor, Counselor, for your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u168	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on my own request to this House to take note of the set of actions carried out by the Galician Union for the promotion of sustainable mobility. A package of measures and a line of strategic action that is in line with the objectives set by the European Union to achieve harmonious and environmentally friendly development. In the specific area of mobility, they are based on the implementation of transport infrastructures and systems that meet the needs of citizenship and at the same time minimize the impact of carbon on the atmosphere. In Galicia we are aware of the necessary conjunction of various aspects, of different aspects. Deploy modern and adapted communications services and infrastructures that the Greeks demand of us, but bearing in mind that it must be as respectful as possible and have the slightest impact on our environment. To these aspects we must join together something that we consider, of course, essential: increasing awareness and awareness in order to change the habits of citizens. That's why the care of our territory and the protection of natural landscape wealth are present in all the actions of the Galician Union and, of course, guide the action of this board, the Environmental Council, which shares the competences of planning, coordination and execution of transport infrastructures and services with the policies of preservation and care of our territory. The reason for reviewing these initiatives today is nothing other than the European Mobility Week we celebrated a few days ago, under the motto: "Choose, change, combine your mobility." A commemoration whose priority objective is to enhance sustainable mobility in our cities and villages by promoting the development of permanent services and infrastructures that enable us to advance towards this goal; promoting good practices in the use of transport and encouraging awareness campaigns aimed at raising citizens' awareness of the benefits – both environmental, economic and social – of the use of collective transport. At the end of this commemoration, in June, of course, we believe that this is the right time to take stock in this House of measures implemented by the German Government in recent years for achieving sustainable mobility, and also the timely time to report on future actions that we are going to develop to move forward towards a development that is no longer understood as a sustainable quality. We design an integral, coordinated and combined strategy at the Board. A strategy that, combining the three aspects that initially said, focuses on two fundamental lines of work. On the one hand, the promotion of public transport, making special fine-tuned intermodality. And on the other hand, and in a fully coordinated manner with the first point, we work on the empowerment of alternative mobility, which generates new habits and new possibilities for, of course, reducing the use of the private vehicle. No doubt, when we think of sustainable mobility, we all think of public public transport: by bus, by boat, by train, by means of transport that minimizes emissions per user but needs good planning to respond to citizens' demands. That's why the promotion of public transport is the first of the board's line of work. And in this sense, we have to start with the most innovative and quieter initiative in this issue of the leadership of the Galician Union, which is nothing other than the Metropolitan Transport Plan. Since 2011, citizens of Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol have benefited from the advantages of this plan. In 2012, Lugo's inhabitants added to these benefits. And since last April, the plan is already operational – as you know – in the Vigo metropolitan area, thanks to the consensus with twelve municipalities in the area for its launch. Thanks to this plan, the Greeks have a simpler tariff system: a single card that allows them to pay for their travel in different media and companies, with great benefits for users, free transhipments, cheaper prices and average savings that can reach the 600 euros/year. And for recurrent users even more discounts, for families many more discounts, and also many more for collectives who need it most. The success of the implementation of this measure reflects the interest they have shown and continue to manifest many municipalities that want to adhere to this plan. Currently there are 14 municipalities that have joined this initiative following the establishment of each area. The last eight municipalities, which joined on September 14, see how the Metropolitan Transport Plan began operating in its municipal area with proven success. In these 15 days, it's almost 12,000 trips to these eight municipalities, because we're talking about a metropolitan transport plan that's already reaching many points in the countryside. A plan that with the latest incorporations directly benefits millions and a half of citizens of 65 municipalities in the Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol, Lugo and Vigo. A plan that grants more than a million bus trips a month, which implies 600,000 trips per month by private vehicle. And since June, we've been working so that it's a reality too, and we can start up both in Ourense and Pontevedra. In the specific case of the city of Burgas – as you know – the proceedings are advanced. We're working on traffic studies, economic studies in the Ourense area, and the goal is that at the end of this year we propose an agreement to these municipalities, with the proximity of these municipalities and the economic proximity of the Galician Union, so that its effective implementation may be mid-2016. Our purpose, ladies and gentlemen, is that as many Greeks as possible can enjoy the advantages that this plan offers, and therefore the advantages of using collective public transport. But, in addition, from Galician Junta we also want to improve the services that citizens receive, so we are also working to achieve an accessibility plan to the big cities of Vigo, Ourense, the Coruña and Pontevedra, whose implementation will be coordinated with the municipalities, and will allow users who use these long-distance lines that go to stand, which already pass from the bus station itself. Our goal is that in the first quarter of 2016 these accessibility plans are ready to implement their implementation in the same year 2016. The implementation of the Accessibility Plan as soon as it represents a transport revolution, of the interurban lines, and of course a significant improvement that makes them more attractive, because it will be to address the demands of our neighbours. Because we can't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens don't understand competences, they understand services, and what they want is to be given their services. That's why a citizen of Carball who moves to the Coruña to do some management does not serve the division of competences as an explanation why the bus only leaves him at the bus station stop. But service improvements are not limited to urban areas and metropolitan areas. Since Galician union, we're also launching service improvement projects thinking in a special way in our rural area. That's why we're pushing the operating aid system, the S.A.E.E., which will turn the bus into the 21st century's own means of transport. First, by providing the user with accurate information in real time, schedules and also bus services; a mechanism that will boost demand, improve their supply and facilitate, through web tools, very valuable information for users: existing lines, schedules, estimated bus arrival time to our stop... But the SAE, this operating aid system, also has great advantages, because it will report accurate real-time information about the situation of vehicles and also the number of passengers that embark on each stop; an information that will undoubtedly help to adapt services to the needs of citizens and also to ensure the quality of this service. By the end of the same year, we will start the implementation of the first services experimentally, and we will progressively incorporate the nearly 1,000 buses that daily provide services in the autonomous community. Our goal – if everything goes well – in the first half of 2016 is that any user will be able to access information about the time it takes to get the bus to its stop or to plan a route in advance, combining several successive services. We improve services, but we also improve infrastructure. And we've improved infrastructure thanks to the launch of the Renew Plan on Bus Stations, which aims to modernize and add value to these public service facilities, while improving their accessibility, information and intermodality. Thanks to this plan, since the end of 2013 we have been operating in twenty-five bus stations, with an investment of something more than 2 million euros, and have benefited large cities but also towns like Carballo, Cedera, Girl, Ribadeo and The Valdeorras Boat, because this is a service that brings territorial cohesion and therefore goes beyond the big cities. In fact, the future of the stations of the big cities is boundless to be doubted by the main element of this week, which is intermodality. We must not forget that the situation of the Galician railway network has experienced transcendental changes in recent times, both in the medium- and long-distance service. Currently, the community has a railway infrastructure consisting of more than 1,000 kilometres of conventional network and 240 kilometres of high-speed track, which, coupled with the 100 kilometres of high-speed track that are running, will allow Galicia to be less than three hours from Madrid in 2018. We must also remember, in addition, the start-up last April of the high-speed sections that were pending between Vigo and Santiago, which I thought I could travel the 155 kilometers between Vigo and La Coruña in just over an hour. A reduction of times and an increase of benefits on the Atlantic axis that has meant that this line has already been used by one million travellers since last April. These new services are causing changes in the habits of the people who benefit from this collective transport, but in any case, we must continue to move forward. The next step is the execution of the passenger transport infrastructures necessary to achieve true intermodality in the cities of Greece. Infrastructures, for example, that travel from Orders to Madrid only requires a bus-train or bus-bus transhipment within the same station, so we are coordinating with the central government and with the various local administrations to advance in the design and implementation of useful, modern, complete, and adapted intermodal stations that citizens demand. We have made European funds, ERDF funds. By 2020 we have guaranteed EUR 34 million of European funds to run these bus terminals integrated with railway stations. At the beginning of 2015, we bid service contracts for the evaluation of previous studies corresponding to the new bus terminals in Coruña, Santiago and Ourense. And we are also in the process of drafting the basic project and the execution of Galicia's first intermodal, which is the Vigo station, a fact that will allow us to start hiring the works – if everything goes well – at the end of 2016; of course, this will reflect the budgets of next year. In a matter of days, we will also convene the municipalities to continue to advance in the design of these intermodal stations. But in addition to infrastructure, we know that we also need to improve services. A good proof of the interest and need for intermodality we have with the collaboration agreement we signed at the beginning of this month – last September 2nd – with Adif, Aena and Renfe, along with the Galician Union. A pioneering agreement, because it is the first agreement to sign this type of agreement in Spain, to promote the different means of transport – rail, road and aircraft – to reinforce each other by sharing tickets; that is, with a single document you can use different means of transport to carry out a route by coordinating frequencies and schedules and also improving breakpoints and information to users. An agreement which collects a follow-up commission; a follow-up commission which has already appointed each of its representatives, and which, of course, will soon be convened by the city councils, to get the combined train-bus ticket set up for the three airport terminals, so that they are more coordinated and more accessible to all. Our goal is power before the end of this year to propose to the municipalities of Vigo, La Coruña and Santiago these agreements for the implementation of this initiative. Of course, we hope to count on the willingness and understanding of collaboration to launch this combined ticket. Now we move on to the second line of action. We said that the first was to promote public transport, the second line of work is to promote alternative mobility. We're talking about new forms of mobility, which are certainly not recent inventions, but they must be the object of a new impetus from administrations. We referred to matters as simple as the promotion of walking and carpooling, which you know is to organize for car sharing. These combined and coordinated means with an appropriate public transport service will undoubtedly improve the service of the Greeks, thereby reducing pollution while reducing the disturbances resulting from over-trafficking. We're at a point where we've been working on road infrastructure for many years, so that we can have safer road infrastructures, which involve an aspect as important as moving the long-distance traffic away from the center of the villages. Infrastructures that have contributed significantly to decongesting and relieving the moment of vehicles inside the villages by deriving traffic around, also involving comfort and time saving for citizens, and also improving quality, of course. If we add up the kilometres of variants and high-capacity pathways that have run the Galician Union since 2009, the figure, of course, is enlightening: 160 kilometers built throughout the territory of Galicia, avoiding more than a hundred kilometers of crossings and an investment by the Galician Union of 610 million euros. But we continue to take steps and move forward, and by the end of 2016 we will also have 70 new kilometres of variants and high-capacity pathways, with an approach that we will make of 190 million euros. But if we think of a key infrastructure for promoting alternative transport uses, we have to talk about dissuasive parking lots; defining spaces of the concept of intermodality to promote modal public transport change or carpooling itself. They are currently in service as you know in Moaña two dissuasori parks: Domaio and Broulón, 105 parking spaces, with a strategic situation close to the AP-9. An investment made by the Galician Junta of EUR 435,000, to facilitate shared trips around the Vigo metropolitan area. And we have in construction two more dissuasive parking lots: in Santiago and in Coruña. The dissuasory parking in Pontepedriña also has a good location to serve the city; 200 squares in this Pontepedriña parking lot, with an investment of EUR 840,000. And also running the dissuasory parking lot of Lonzas, in the Coruña, located on the edge of the AC-14 connection glorieta, around San Cristovo, which offers you a good connection to the road network of access to the city and also a good connection even to the railway station. It is 177 squares in the parking lot of Lonzas, 700,000 euros. So, in total, the arrival of the Galician Union for the construction of four dissuasive parking lots is almost two million euros so the neighbours, the citizens, have 500 squares, which will be on duty all of them before the end of this year. But undoubtedly, the biggest bet of this government on alternative mobility is reflected in the promotion of paths that pursue a triple purpose: to encourage clean modes of transport in contrast to the use of the car, which requires the use of fossil fuels; to increase road safety; and also to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of moving on foot as far as possible. We're connecting areas of some population intensity with the cores where the most important services are concentrated: schools, health centers... allowing citizens to communicate without the need for private vehicle use. We have already built careers or pedestrian paths; bike routes: Vigo-Baiona, Baiona-A Guarda, are more than forty kilometers executed and more than twenty-five million euros; in pedestrian tracks as well 85 kilometers of trails since 2009, and 10 million euros. But this year we are also running five miles of new routes in Baiona, in Ponteceso, in Cabana de Bergantiños, in Nigrán, in Foz. Consistent and coordinated actions with the Roadmap that we are developing in seven districts of Galicia with the intention of determining and prioritising intervention needs: in the metropolitan areas of Coruña, Santiago, Vigo and Ferrol, and in the districts of Salnes, Bergantiños and Terra Chá. Last January – as you know – we bid contracts to prioritize itineraries and to draft the necessary constructive projects to define this plan. Nowadays contracts are signed, developing; of course, making participants to the councils of this plan, because what we're looking for is to give solutions to demands. At the end of 2015 we will have the diagnosis of this plan and in the first half of 2016 the goal is to draft these constructive projects and start hiring these works. To ensure the financing of these routes, these seven comarcial plans that we are drafting, we prioritize the allocation of European funds for the period 2014-2020. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that more than EUR thirty-five million of the European funds are allocated to implement these green infrastructures. Therefore, thanks to this investment, at the end of the operational period of these European funds, which is the year 2020, we will have more than a hundred new kilometres of pedestrian routes in these seven Galician regions. Ladies and gentlemen, all these measures I have just mentioned, driven by the Council of Galicia to achieve more and more environmentally friendly mobility, would be meaningless if we did not count on an equally fundamental component: the responsibility, awareness and collaboration of all. In order to impress on this aspect and achieve greater citizen involvement, essentially of the youngest, we are going to launch a awareness campaign in secondary schools, especially in rural areas, of our rural Galician. An initiative that seeks to make our children aware of the need for extreme precautions and to move around with maximum security, also focuses on the importance of adapting the means of transport to every displacement we make, and what we intend to do is to promote among new generations the use of green infrastructure and alternative means of transport. This campaign will be carried out through educational units so that teachers contain the right material to work with the boys. The ultimate goal is that among all, larger and even small, we work together so that with small gestures, changing small daily routines, we can move forward in the achievement of a great collective achievement, which is to achieve more and more sustainable and more secure mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the latest mobility actions and also the projects we have in progress, which we are carrying out since the German Government. Important qualitatively, that in a time of less infrastructure investment capacity, of course, I think they maximize the benefit to citizens and also to the environment. Now I'm at your disposal for any suggestion, for any clarification that you need in a key issue, as is the sustainable development of our country. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u169	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. You just made an explanation of the plan. And, as the plan itself describes, "their fundamental goal is to promote the use of non-motorized modes of transport, increasing its importance in modal distribution in relation to private motorized modes, both in the metropolitan and rural areas." The truth is it's surprising to read in the plan and listen to you such a thing, when the People's Party rejected all amendments to the bill amending the Road Law, directed to promoting bicycle transport and establishing all possible guarantees for the safety of cyclists, pedestrians and drivers. Not a single one was accepted. That's why the plan bets to boost the intermodality of non-motorized modes of public transport with collective modes, equip Galicia with a basic network of cyclists, "where you can cycle on foot or on a bicycle in a comfortable and safe way," says the plan. Among the different modes of non-motorized transport, the plan focuses very much on the bicycle and also on the pawns. So far everything seems right, but the plan says, "You don't have to consider the cyclist pathways as paths to be transported exclusively by bicycle. Experience in other more advanced communities – which already tells us how the Council considers us: a little advanced country – says that the majority users of cyclists' routes are pawns and sportsmen on foot practicing athletics and that the pawn must be regarded as an ally of the bicycle in the fight against indiscriminate mobility by car. We must promote the co-existence of the bike with the pawn." I'm deeply discrete. One thing is to promote bicycle transport and another to encourage family bicycle rides. These are two different performances for two different realities. Other goals of the plan are to promote healthy habits of walking and walking in security conditions with comfortable and safe infrastructures. But that's not a way to encourage safe transport, it's a way to foster a healthier life, to take walks, but people don't move on foot. The paths you're talking about are very good as entertainment, like leisure, even to know our ethnographic heritage and the cultural heritage we have, but of course, it's not a mode of transport. You confuse leisure with transport needs. Create a basic network of urban or metropolitan cyclists. I'd like you to explain to me what it means "basic." Because if for you the Baiona line is a cyclist route, then, of course, I understand what your speech is, because we're not talking about it. "Coordinate Galician cyclist track networks with public public transport service networks promoting intermodality and their use." It is about coordinating cyclists and collective transport. It is about cohesion of the territory by means of an intermodal public transport network that is adapted to transport bicycles and wheelchairs. A problem that you constantly neglect. It's not a problem that the bike arrives where the train arrives or where the bus arrives, that the problem is that cyclists are in cities and villages, and it's cities and villages that are not connected. And you come here to tell us everything's fine, but talk to us about the cyclists and... No, lie, we don't have coordination in public transport. The new speed train, because it can't be called high speed, one train faster than the other, or as if it's often called a "AVE case" or a "poliin", sank into the social dissection of the Galician territory by strengthening the urban nuclei of the Atlantic axis and leaving the interior of Galicia completely incommunicado. In the meantime, Ferrol, once again, stood aside; with the new train, in fact broke the arable metropolis when Ferrol was even more unloaded than he was already. From Lugo and much of the interior of Galicia, except Ourense borders, you can only highlight the total abandonment and poor public transport that suffers. Galicia now has a decent train between La Coruña and Vigo, but with very few frequencies, very few frequencies. And besides, you don't have proximity services that bring travelers from the towns to the cities so you can catch this train. The new railway service has no connection to any of the three German airports. The line does not yet count on the ERTMS system or international width. The priority and necessity of citizens is a solution to their daily mobility between residence and employment, the hospital, the health centre, school, university. And that priority requires a plan to improve urban transport for the rest of the Greek municipalities: Oleiros, Ames, Poio, Baiona, Culleredo, Sada, Teo, Marín, Nigrán, Round it up, Guarda... we can follow all over the country. And, like not, it's essential to encourage river transport and to include it in intermodal transport plans by seeking their coordination with land transport; but also often and from all points of the river, not leaving Moaña offline, for example, and leaving only the Cangas boat, or not having a river transport in Ferrol. Among the benefits of this plan are the environment, of lower atmospheric emissions of greenhouse gases. I would also add the heritage, the promotion of pedestrian and cyclist pathways that allow respectful recovery of historical or heritage paths; urbanism, the promotion of pedestrian and cyclist pathways is fundamental in new urbanism based on proximity that mixes sustainable uses and the environment. There is a lack of a section dedicated to educating in ecological values. You have now commented something about your intervention on educating children in precautions in the use of roads, in the use of alternative transport, and I would also say in this regard, in the care of the environment and the importance of good infrastructure planning. It is necessary to work on society's awareness and to educate on environmental values, in terms of nature. Environmental training and education are basic tools for achieving environmental protection objectives and are key components on which a preventive and effective environmental policy should be established. Lack of planning and spatial planning, urban management plans that integrate urbanization and urbanism into the environment, being respectful of the historic monumental helmets of the towns, the banks of the rivers and rivers and the landscape. Galicia has a great wealth of marine resources and its exploitation is one of the most important socio-economic activities of the Greek coast as a generator of employment and dynamiser of industrial and tourist activity. However, we have to regret the high pollution of our rivers as a result of the spills of industrial waste water that have not been treated. And I regret that this plan, like any environmental policy of the PP, is not credible, since it is not compatible with the permission for the extension of the Ence in the Pontevedra River. Propaganda will only keep our country being mistreated, helpless, so that most citizens have to continue using the car, suffering from shocks and parking the price of gold in order to get to work. And all the evidence points out that this whole plan is nothing more than a new popular party propaganda in an election year, since all the actions approved or carried out by the German Government in relation to sustainable transport are at the expense of it. Today's society is increasingly demanding areas of natural sprawl, and hence the need to promote green areas. Therefore, it is essential to make the integral care of Galicia compatible with the bet on value and dissemination of the areas of special protection of natural values that constitute the heritage of Galicia. Time's up, but I'd like to answer some of the things you said in your intervention, like the subject of dissuasive parking loters. Dissuasive parking lots that means everyone's going to drive to the big cities and then they're going to have to leave the car there by paying some rates that can't be allowed, which is why it doesn't make sense when we're betting on collective transport. Well, not to mention a government initiative like they share trips. I don't think it's serious. Also speak of, for example, the lack of coordination between the bus stations or the train stations themselves, as is the case at Vigo with the Guixar and Urzáiz station, where there is no connection that when the train arrives to Guixar or Urzáiz can take you to the other station.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u171	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u172	The same as there is no coordination with the university, between river transport or train transport and the university or the new Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. Just to say that, instead of still talking about subsidising public transport and paying the road haulage companies part of the tickets, they rescue concessions so that public transport is truly public and is not privatized and we save that subsidy and we have the public transport that all Greeks and Greeks deserve. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u173	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u174	Good afternoon, gentlemen. I, Counselor, must tell you at this moment after hearing your intervention that I don't know if they have lost the sense of reality or lost the sense of ridicule, because coming here to tell us that collective transport in Galicia is a marvel, the fruit of the great structural reforms that you have made this Union, which allow you nothing more and nothing less than the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks to choose, change and combine, will share with me that at least because you don't know what the reality of this country is. And if it's not like that, and we can do the test right now, and choose from Santiago to travel by train to Lugo, we can choose, Counselor. How many hours will that shift take us? What's the offer of railway, do you think that's viable? Of course not. And we understand -- if you don't get nervous that you're going to have your turn... I'll force him to go in an official car and everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, jokes aside, because I think we're on an important issue. Do you really believe that people in this country can combine, choose and change? It's an absolute falsehood, it's propaganda. And all we see is the ignorance of the problems in the country right now, because there are problems of displacement between cities, there are problems of displacement between towns, and I don't want to tell you what it means to live in rural areas, that if a person doesn't have a particular vehicle, it's in practice incommunicado. And you should know that this is very important also from the point of view of gender, and we would also like to know your opinion on that, because there are many women in this country who don't have a driver's license, who live isolated in villages and therefore have mobility problems there. We'd like to know if at some point you've done a study on gender abuse in terms of transport in our country. In any case, it's a proposal we want to make today as well. You tell us about new ways they're pushing, and the first thing you mentioned was going on foot. We defend peonalization, you know. But the peonalization and the use of walking, which I think is not the most modern means of transport, can in any case be done in very specific areas, within the context of cities, just where the Galician Union has no direct competence. But I would say: the alarming thing is that where they are applying real measures that prioritize pawns and which are also having a very positive result in road safety, such as Pontevedra, the People's Party systematically boycottes the implementation of that model. So we'd really like it if the comments allowed it, because you have also answered this question. It was also said by the spokesperson of the Mixed Group: they confuse the pedestrian or cyclist paths, which have to do with leisure, with the mobility of people, because really, for example, if you wanted to favor mobility, I would prioritize because we are here in Compostela – I may have a clearer knowledge – mobility through pedestrian and cyclist paths because between Milladoiro and Santiago de Compostela, which there is a demand that has been with her for a long time and despite being viable to the Board of Galicia never did anything in this matter. You tell us about dissuasive parking, the dissuasive parking plan. This is the plan that Mr. Hernández most often announced, who told us in 2010 – I think you were already in that council with another office – that would be 16,000 parking lots and 64 dissuasive parking lots throughout the country. And today you come to present us as a grand balance 4 parking lots and 500 squares, and this seems to you to be a great success. By the way, in Santiago de Compostela, Pontepedrine, the only thing they are doing right now is to do an explanation in an area where you know it was already parking, only there were bad accesses; therefore, new parking lots there are none. He also told us about cycling, when the only thing he did to Junta was to dismantle the programs that were to promote the use of bicycles and remove the aid to the municipalities for the launching of programs that were during the Bipartisan Government for the use of bicycles; a program that had nearly twenty thousand users and that the Galician Union suppressed. Transport. You know what they did is to present us as a success of up to 65 municipalities, within a measure that is a very small measure, because you know it has a very small impact, but this country, Counsellor, has 314 municipalities. Between 65 and 314 I think there's a very important part of the population that doesn't have any kind of service. And what did the PP do? The PP made a law to shield the concessions of thirty years ago and thus prevent us from giving them answers to the mobility needs of this country. All in the service of the interests of companies, not the service of the interests of the majority. And look, railway, this is the year 2010: "Feijóo announces a study on the viability of the light metro in Vigo, A Coruña and Santiago". More than 1,300,000 euros spent on studies, when you think you were in the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, to advertise, put them in a drawer and have absolutely nothing. Just like in the promotion of the railway, which in 2010, in the debate of the state of the nation, Mr. Feijóo told us that he was already going to set up the railway company in Galicia to start the proximity in our country. Where are all those 2010 ads? They are put in a drawer behind all the lies, and lies that we have to hear every day in this Parliament and that we have to see how the Union of Galicia is spreading through the media. And we keep saying, speaking of railways, that in this matter Galicia has a debt pending. He has a debt pending with people who have suffered the biggest railway accident in our country's history, the victims of the terrible Angrois accident, who continue to ask for truth, justice and reparation. And today I bring here a commission, Counsellor, of the victims, who sent us a letter, to us and to the AGE Parliamentary Group, from which we were asked to read here today to you and to the People's Parliamentary Group, and says: "Dear ladies and gentlemen," – I read in Spanish because it is how or what they have sent – "we are the Victims Platform Alvia 04155, which brings together the majority of victims and relatives of the most serious railway accident in democracy, with 81 dead and more than 140 wounded. On 23 July, the PP rejected the creation of a parliamentary commission of inquiry which was submitted by AGE with the support of the BNG. Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso of the People's Party said that his party "does not enter the game of manipulating the victims". The first thing we want to clarify the victims to Mr Gomez and the People's Party is that we are not manipulated by anyone and that we are the victims we call for a parliamentary commission, which is very democratic. He also said that it is "immoral" the stance of the opposition, which he accuses of trying to draw "political revenues". What is really immoral is the humiliating treatment we are receiving by the PP Government, the PSOE and some public institutions, generating even more pain in the victims. Here's a sample: We received inhuman treatment from the president of the Union, Mr Feijóo, who sent us to riots when we refused to receive medals that most of the victims did not want. We are systematically denied a parliamentary investigation commission by the PP and the PSOE. What are they afraid of? What are they trying to hide? Is this transparency and accountability? We were seriously lied about the Ourense-Santiago high-speed line. They said it was safer, the latest technology and automatic driving systems. Days later, as we buried our own and others we discussed between life and death, the leaders of Renfe and Adif and Development rushed to deny that it was a high-speed accident, because they were only interested in business. We are both deceived by the Ministry of Development as well as Adif and Renfe by pointing only to the driver as solely responsible. Just two months ago, the independent expert César Mariñas ratified in the court the safety discount suffered by the Ourense-Santiago line and the non-compliances in the matter"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u175	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u176	..."of rail safety regulations, classifying the accident as "foreseeable" taking into account current legislation and the state of technical knowledge in the sector. No political leader has resigned and for the humiliation of the victims some have even been awarded: former Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Rafael Catalá, was appointed Minister of Justice; who was President of Renfe, Gomez Pomar, is now Secretary of State for Infrastructures; former Minister José Blanco, who opened the line hastily and without the appropriate risk analysis, is now Euro MP, moreover recommended to PSdeG Galicia that they refuse to create the commission since it could harm them; President of Adif, Gonzalo Ferré, continues in his position despite lying in parliamentary headquarters when he said on 8 August 2003: "The accident that occurred in Santiago de Compostela is not a high-speed accident". More for business than for seeking the truth and clearing responsibilities within Adif, who, as we have known in the court, failed to comply with the regulations and committed several deficiencies. The PP Government does not cooperate with justice, either Adif or Renfe, despite the promises made to us personally by Minister Ano Pastor to victims and relatives, who repeat so much before the media. Lack of collaboration identified by both judges, requiring and repeatedly acknowledging Renfe and Adif for the documentation they did not deliver. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, stop talking on our behalf and do not add any more pain and suffering. We just want them to ask for forgiveness and to do an investigation commission to clear up political responsibilities. Truth, justice and reparation."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u178	I have just left the letter to the President of Parliament to bring it to the People's Group and to make the next time you speak more of the words when you talk about a subject and when you talk about the victims of the Angrois accident. Well, then we'll talk about the train. Counsellor, in Galicia, I think there's a dissuasory parking lot, it's that of the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, which has a totally dissuasive price. That's a deterrent parking lot, but from what you're talking about, I think there's no one yet, right? What you came to do here today reminds me of my days of EXB, when we celebrated Tree Day. That day we all planted a tree, but for the rest of the days we forgot about it. You come here to celebrate the European Week of Alternative Mobility. All right, a very folk celebration, but the total absence of self-criticism in your speech or whether it's due to ignorance or whether it's due to cynicism. As a goal, the People's Party cannot present a good balance in sustainable mobility policy. It's not just a good balance, it's just that you don't bet on sustainable mobility. Its model is to build high-capacity roads for individual road transport, that's where they spend 80% or 90% of their budgets – being very generous – and that's where they prioritize everything. You're in the palaeolithic of sustainable mobility, Counselor, you're in the paleolytic. I don't know if you know the concepts of pull and push, if you know the concepts of demand calculation induced by the construction of new infrastructures, etc.; nothing you use when deciding to build new routes, new infrastructures. Should mobility be given priority treatment? Of course I do. You talked about climate change and the reduction of energy dependence. For you, and politically for your government, neither climate change exists nor the reduction of energy dependence is a priority. I'm looking for a kicker! I'm looking for a kicker! Where is the strategy for climate change, Counsellor? Where's the industrial policy strategy? Where is the strategy to reduce energy consumption in transport? Where is she, Counselor? I give you some data, because if you want, we also review the budgets and tell you how much you spend on roads and how much you spend on sustainable mobility. And look, less postureo. Pedestrian paths. But what are you telling me? You've been ruling thirty years in Galicia, Counsellor's Board of Directors, and in the works of the Ways of Galicia, how many have you left on a pedestrian path? Did your mayors take into account urban planning the displacement on foot of people in rural areas, for example? No, it's just that awareness-raising classes don't have to be for students, they don't have to be for mayors of the People's Party; for them, in urban planning, walking or cycling shifts don't exist. Look, here we discussed the Road Law, and in the Road Law we presented amendments so that we could take into account, in the new road constructions, the construction of roads for bikes and pedestrians, and they refused them. And now tell me what you're going to do for the next 100 kilometers. No, no, no, no. Do you know how many neighbouring roads have been occupied in rural areas in the face of the dislosure of the Town Councils? How many kilometers did he make the Galician Union, when he made air conditioning or self-repair plans, where they left a mile or two so people could walk? Do you know how rural people are now on the roads? Did you guys have some kind of policy so people in rural areas could walk the roads or the roads? And now he's promising to the future all of this. Intermodality. Where are the intermodal stations, Counsellor? They're in the future, of course. Where are the dissuasive parking lots? They're always the same repeated promises. And then concepts that you guys don't do. It is known that for many years now they have been used in countries where they really bet on sustainable mobility. Look, I'm reading this in studies in 2004 and 2005: "The construction of new transport infrastructure must be fully in line with the predefined territorial model and not develop independently" – that's not what you do. "The territorial model fits the space system with ecological functions, the urban system, the infrastructure and transport system; thus, this system fit coherence is more than enough reason for transport planning to be subject to territorial planning as a whole. Consequently, new infrastructure justifications should not be accepted based solely on demand studies that complement the need for more infrastructure to channel a particular demand, beyond territorial reflection as a whole." How are you deciding to build the A-57 from Madrid? What are you taking into account for building a more lane on the Rande Bridge or another lane on the Passage Bridge? What are you guys considering? Do you take into account any of these concepts that have been used for many years for those who bet on sustainable mobility? No, no, no, no. "In the context of infrastructures understood as territorial strategies and within the framework of the need to promote sustainable development, all new transport infrastructure must be assessed from the following perspectives: energy consumption and soil consumption". None of these concepts appear in any study by the Galician Councillor. The 2006 British Transportation Department's road network enlargements must not be justified in terms of economic benefits. While it is true that the development of a transport network was a basic and necessary element for the economic development of the different regions of Europe, it also seems certain that, having reached a certain degree of infrastructure, in which we find ourselves" – and also in Galicia – the benefits of a new infrastructure are better reduced, if not difficult to appreciate." Surely this is not true of all types of infrastructure; it will not be true in Galicia for the train, which would certainly bring a lot of value, especially environmental, but above all – said the British Transportation Department – "can be applied to high-capacity road infrastructures, since this network is more widely developed and extended over the last five decades, so that the construction of new highways contributes little to the economic competitiveness of a region. Even so, it can be observed that the need for more highways to promote economic development is often still justified; even in studies that support these actions, the future growth of GDP is estimated." Like you, like Mrs. Ana Pastor, when it was, before the elections, selling Rande's enlargement, that said it would mean an increase in the province's GDP. A historical fact, and they're being set an example of what must not be done for sustainable mobility. However, it says, "When it comes to economic progress, it is increasingly necessary to refer to investment, research and development, incentives for the creation of new companies, to training of skilled labour. These are more intangible aspects, but with greater impact on the economic competitiveness of a society." That's where the shots go, Counselor, not for more cement indiscriminately and without a minimum of rationality. Then, the concept that a higher supply induces higher demand, and you still don't calculate the traffic induced by the new infrastructure. You tell me a study that takes into account that a new infrastructure will create new demand. And for sustainable mobility, for the reduction of greenhouse gases, of polluting emissions, Madam Counsellor, it is not even useful – even if it is true – to promote new measures to promote collective transport, it is necessary to reduce transport by individual road; it is not worth increasing an offer if you don't push out – that is called pull and push – if you don't expel people who drive individually towards collective transport. And you don't have a minimal comprehensive planning of this policy, because this must not be Tree Day, it must be a cross-sectional and integrated policy, thought of by the Law of the Earth, where there's nothing to talk about mobility, from the Law of the Earth to the construction of new infrastructures, etc. And you come to present a balance without a minimum of self-criticism. What about the nearby train, Counsellor? Why don't we have a nearby train between Ferrol and La Coruña? What's the reason? How is that justified? How is it justified that we don't have a nearby train? Is that an example of sustainable mobility? Therefore, Counselor, I believe that what you came to say here are only future promises and minor issues. You're the only one who could sell was a single ticket metropolitan transport plan and after intermodality; you can't present any reality of dissuasory parking plans, you can't present any reality of a nearby train, you can't present any reality of the thirty years you've been ruling, you can't present any coherence in the realization of pedestrian routes or bicycle transit. I'm looking for a kicker! What are you here to introduce, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u179	Finish, Mr. Sánchez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u180	In the second intervention I'll give you some more data, but I hope that in the second intervention you also contribute some more data, and something more self-criticism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Raúl Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u182	Thank you, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. Counsellor, I must once again acknowledge my surprise when I knew the content of his appearance at his own request: the Councillor's appearance to report on the plans of the Galician Board for the promotion of sustainable mobility. It would qualify the appearance simply as singular, not to enter controversial adjectives. The real data – I fully agree with those data provided by the spokesperson of the Nationalist Block Galego – do not, of course, invite to optimism at all, a worrying reality; but I believe that rather than worrying – not to return to that data – there is an even more worrying situation that is installed in this council and in this government. Because, when we've already hit the end of the legislation, you're surprised by the presentation of a plan, rather than to inform us in detail of the results of the implementation of your policy on sustainable mobility. This is a proof, one more, that proves that the project – if there was – of the People's Party for Galicia is exhausted, and that the Government already gives the legislation. You are the living image of a decadent government installed in the resignation, and its counsellor also sneezes and gives visibility to the galloping and relentless deterioration of public resource management by the popular government. Citizens of the common state, citizens of the foot, do not appear as beneficiaries in their profit and loss accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Council, with extensive powers, was conceived at the beginning of the legislation as a macro-counselry to reflect the image and face of the Government of Greece and its President. I intended to be the support that would have spelled out Mr Feijó's success in this legislation. Today, three years later, only the remains of the wreckage of this council are left; a council that has been installed provisionally since the first day, which leads us to conclude that its provisionality reflects the provisionality of the People's Party project: in three years, two advisors or advisors, two directors or directors of the Galician Infrastructure Agency, two presidents or presidents of Galician Waters and three general directors of Mobility. Only the inactivity and inefficiency of management overcomes the disatiny of the motions, resignations and appointments of the President. Counsellor, you will make a year – November 2014 – you have also come up with your own request, in this House itself, to report on the evolution, current situation and forecasts of the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan. In that appearance he spoke of the future, forgetting the past and the present because of the obvious lack of results and thus with an identification with failure. Today, with seven years followed by popular governments and one year from the end of the legislation, they're again talking about futures, another proof of the failure of results. You compare yourself to telling us an account of the intention of wiping out the past and assuming a future, a new run forward. Once again they want to sell us cats for hare. To project the future into sustainable mobility, you have to recognize the past and present reality in that issue and you have to practice intermodality with infrastructures such as linkages of all modes of transport. What is the past and present of sustainable mobility in Galicia? What is the baggage, the result account, of this government in modes of transport? Look, let's take a look. Land transport: massive reduction of lines and frequencies of road passenger transport by road with the consent of the Government of the Italian Government by authorising the modification of concessions; temporary extension of concessions; temporary extension of concessions, non-existent alternative modes of transport – transport to demand, no-bus, etc.–; rail, short and medium- and short- and medium-distance transport – the Government of Greece shared and cooperated with the application of the Plan of Rationalisation of rail transport by leaving without service to thousands of galegas and galegas living in villages, towns and villages, towns and villages – and towns – long-distance travel –the new infrastructures to support the AVE are found in a situation of parallization, slow slowing down and even in definition by the Government of the region of the central government of the region of the central government, without you being in service to thousands of the least concern or less concerned about it, without showing the least concern or less concern, while you are still busy in the last year 2008; you have a position of the current air transport of the air transport of the goods in the air, but is now in the right, as is in the right, and are in the right, and you are in the right, you are in place.; by the right, where you are in question, where you are in the right, where you are in the right, where the right, where the right, where the right, where the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right, where are the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is? are the right is? are the right is? are the right is? are the right is? are the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is? are the right is? are the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is the right is? are the right is the right is? are? are? are? are? are? are the airport transport of the airport transport of the right are? are????? – where the airport transport of the right is? – where the right is? are? are? are 2010, 2011 and 2012 were absolutely lost years; in 2013 the conversations resumed, and since spring 2014 the Council ignores and despises the interest of a socialist government in Ourense to move forward in its implementation, nor responds to emails or calls for several months. With the arrival of the new popular government to the city of Ourense, negotiations resumed. The summary of the first meeting explained it to a mayor of the People's Party, he said, "Ms. Counsellor, when you need to be shown for a photo, tell me, I'm sure I'll come, but I'll take the rest of the time." In the case of Vigo, where I am no longer going to abound, the use of metropolitan transport as a political weapon by the People's Party was absolutely scandalous – the citizens of Vigo thanked him conveniently on May 24. Counsellor, this is the result of seven years of the People's Party's government; a seven-year past dismantling public transport services to reach a clear retreat present. And you, with that past and present, don't seem to have the conviction or intention of converting public transport into the mobility platform in Galicia. By the way, all opposition groups have put forward initiatives and supported proposals for sustainable mobility and we have always met with the rejection of the People's Group. Counsellor, do you really believe that the plan you have just presented to us deserves a minimum of credibility with your background in this House in all areas of your department?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u183	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u184	Members of the Socialist Group have the same feeling that this mayor of the People's Party had after a meeting with you to deal with the deployment of metropolitan transport in Ourense: we are urged by this audience to be included, because to say it didn't say much, and concretely nothing has happened. They just presented us with an inconsistent plan for the future to escape from the past. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u185	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Environmental Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin my speech by telling Mr. Sánchez – when I remember his surname – and Mrs. Pontón that, since they were kind enough to read a letter from the victims of Angrois, to deliver it to the president and to make it public in this Chamber, they will understand that, as a spokesman of this parliamentary group, as a spokesman who spoke on the subject of the English Research Committee, the first one I would like to tell all those people who have written that letter or who feel identified with that letter, that personal and political title, from my competences and good faith, have all my respect and that in my person and on behalf of my entire parliamentary group we wish, as good people, justice, that the truth is known and that never happens again. And if any of these victims were offended by the words of this spokesman from this rostrum, I apologize to him, because that's what I really feel right now and I get through my head. The last thing we wanted to do, or what we wanted to make this voice in a parliamentary debate, among parliamentarians, is to offend the victims. If any of them feel offended, I will, of course, repeat my apologies. Because some of you – I'm not talking about the victims, I'm talking about you, the Members – must confuse what is the parliamentary dialectic that we have among the Members we're talking about in the first person – in this case – of the victims. Here, if anyone, perhaps, has surpassed in his demonstrations, was his head of rows, Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Beiras, who wished me that he had hoped he had been on the train in Angrois and had also survived; he was a bit pulled out of...; was he a little over-exaggerated, don't you think? But, well, as you can verify, Counselor – as we have commented before entering the Chamber – the opposition follows more or less your script, does not leave. They talk about the train, they didn't listen to the content of their appearance, there were those who even confused the motto of the European Mobility Week, which is "Elixe, change, combine your mobility," which is a motto of the European Mobility Week, with a slogan that came here to cast the Counsellor's Lady. The Counsellor came here to talk about the reality of what is being done from the Environmental Council in order to promote public transport in our country. And if you take good note, you might hear that since this council is continuing with the construction of important road infrastructures, such as the variants of population, or other infrastructures, such as dissuasive parking or pedestrian paths; that you are also continuing with the empowerment and rationalization of the current Directorate General for Mobility; that is continuing and working in the defense of the deployment of neighbourhood services in our community; that this Greek government has as its flag that the high-speed connection with Meseta is in 2018 – and we have a minister who is making it happen day to day to day–; that we want our mid-range railway services to improve, as they are doing with historical passenger numbers; or just as they are starting to do the long-distance services. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that the Environment Adviser has to speak of one of our star programs in the field of sustainable mobility, such as the metropolitan transport of Galicia, in which, by the way, there are more and more users and in which, by the way, there are more municipalities – especially rural or medium-sized – that join the metropolitan transport of Galicia because their neighbors demand it from their mayors because they see the advantages that this means of transport. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you are already very steeped in what you must say, but not in what is the subject of debate. We think it's appropriate for the advisor to come here to talk a week after transport and sustainable mobility policies, it's okay! There is no electoralism or opportunism, no debate on the situation of our country's transports; transports in which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, you have failed sharply. You have failed strictly in metropolitan transport; you have indeed been approved by what is now the president of the Galician Union, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Mr. Fernández said: You don't have a luggage to explain to us what they did. What did you guys do? No, no, you guys did nothing. Look, the result of the deployment of metropolitan transport with this government is more than 226,000 cards and more than one million people benefited. Do you know what was the result of your metropolitan transport, Mr. Fernández? First of all, it was not understood by its mayors; and secondly, that more than 700,000 people – the potential beneficiaries of metropolitan transport – did not enjoy this service. You weren't even able to implement the single ticket, Mr. Fernández, not even to implement the single ticket! Home!, it's good that you come here to talk about the metropolitan transport of the Vigo area, it's fine, it's all right, especially when Mr. Caballero refused to join the transport of the city with the metropolitan transport of the Vigo area; which means that Mr. Caballero is causing Vigo's citizens to be the only people in all Galicia who have metropolitan transport and who do not enjoy more discounts because they have to pay for the ferry. And what is already noted by you as parliamentarians is to associate this with the theme of Vigo hospital. Mr. Caballero doesn't want Vigo's users to have the free shuttles and blame the PP for being more expensive to go to Vigo's hospital. Home!, gentlemen, a bit of rigor and seriousness; if Mr. Knight doesn't have it, at least you had it. [[Applause]] "Discouragement parking must be free," said Mrs. Martínez. Yes, as a free woman, Mrs. Martínez and Mr. Fernández, it was the assignment that Vigo's Free Zone made to Vigo, where they gave him 15,000 square meters to make a free parking at the new hospital since 2009 and Mr. Caballero does not only to wear off the president of the Union and a government of the People's Party. Man, let Mr. Caballero do it, who is an expert in political manipulation and who is short of rigour, for it no longer surprises us, but that you do it truly surprises us. Of course, as you can see, if we start pulling out the data, the data gives a lot of debate. The second of the axes of which the advisor spoke is that of the iron roads. Home!, but none of you spoke of the combined ticket, none of you spoke of the number of frequencies being given in the middle distance, where, by the way, all the services currently being rendered are services of public interest; that is, they are subsidized. We're currently having record numbers increasing users of the medium distances, and it's increasing, as I said a moment ago, the number of users in the long distance services. Something similar to the highways, Mrs. Pontón. When they were in the Government they voted against the establishment of the vicinity in Galicia – the minutes are there. They voted against the deployment of the German railway force in our country; there are the minutes, Mrs. Pontón. Now there's a railway body in Galicia, there's a railway body that's just finished or that's about to finish a feasibility study of the proximity service, and when we have this study, we'll talk about the deployment of vicinity and what are the most profitable lines. But it's exactly the same debate as with highways: when I have government responsibilities, I boot balloons out and everything the PP says isn't worth it; when I don't have government responsibilities, I put myself in the car of what are sensible policies. Do you know what you sold as a neighborhood service? Subsidies that gave the operator Renfe half-distance and which were subsidies that were not absolutely profitable, for absolutely deficit services. I mean, we wasted the money from the Greek public resources, because those half-distance services that you subsidized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u187	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u188	...it was the peak. And until the services came half-distance, at high speed, because the services weren't up. That's the truth. Counsellor, there are many issues we still have to discuss. Maybe some voicer or fellow of mine doesn't care to do it, but we believe that if we insist on them in our replica shift, because if we're aware that the policies that are being implemented from the MATI group or from the MATI –modesty aside – are going along the right path. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u189	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Replica. Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u190	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, of course this government will in no way argue with the victims of Angrois and, of course, we feel the greatest and greatest respect. My presence here today responds to the desire, to the interest of the Government of Greece, to inform the members of the House of ongoing projects, of the actions we have put in place, to promote sustainable mobility, to take stock of the results and what we have been doing, and also to report, account, of the programs and set of actions that are planned and in which we are working in the search for more and more environmentally friendly mobility. We're reporting on what we've seen and what we're going to do. I am talking about measures which are in line, of course, with the European Union, because, if not, we would not have the European funds guaranteed, as we have guaranteed them by 2020 for both the intermodal stations and the pedestrian roads. Therefore, measures fully in line with Community principles to ensure that the infrastructure, transport systems and mobility services provided to citizens take into account the footprint they have on the territory and are increasingly sustainable and more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that last few days we celebrated the European Mobility Week, in the Greek Government we considered it to be the right time, which was a great opportunity, to take stock of the results and the shared position of what we have achieved, and also to present future actions, as I have said, and to reflect on the needs of working together to achieve ever more sustainable mobility. I'm sorry I'm just throwing criticism. Of course, the self-criticism of course that I do, but I would like them to make proposals – the proposals would be well received – and help us achieve more sustainable mobility. In any case, what I can assure you is that from the German Government we are committed, working decisively to advance that sustainable mobility. We have put in place different actions that produce results and propose new interventions to further develop in the future; we work, as I said – I insist – in the combined and coordinated comprehensive strategy – of course yes –; a strategy that affects the different means of transport, collects actions in infrastructures, performances in equipment, services, improved services and in which they are directly or indirectly involved in different administrations of the Greek department. In my first speech I referred to actions that we have carried out to alleviate traffic in the centers of the big cities, and with actions already done. I've already reported at the beginning, in my first intervention, what we did with the variants and the construction of four dissuasive parking lots. But they're there, Mr. Sánchez. The dissuasory parking lot of Domaio and also the parking lot of Broullón are executed and there, it's not an invention; they're totally free, Mrs. Martínez. And of course we're working on dissuasive parking lots, Mr. Sánchez. I invite you tomorrow to come with me and with the mayor of Santiago to Pontepedriña to see how they are running – and with European funds – these dissuasive parking lots that I refer to in my first intervention. He was also talking about alternative mobility initiatives, the impulse we have given to so-called green infrastructures, pedestrian paths and cyclists paths. I've already reported in my first intervention what we've seen in the past and what we're drafting plans of pedestrian paths in seven Galician comarcas, seven districts of the Galician geography, to realize the needs of intervention. Mrs. Martínez, you said we weren't planning. So here we are making seven plans. Of course, I know the phrase "plan your work and work on the basis of that plan." We're making seven plans and we're going to develop them. And, Mr. Sánchez, of course, rural benefits. The Comarca de Terra Cha and the Comarca de Bergantiños – I am from the Comarca de Bergantiños – I believe they are rural, and they are one of the districts that will benefit from these plans of pedestrians and cyclists. These will be one of our priorities and I insist that we have secured 35 million European funds from the next period, up to 2020 and that we will run 100 kilometres of new pedestrian and cyclist paths in these first seven Galician districts. The effort of the German Government to achieve sustainable mobility is, of course, complemented by the improvement of equipment and the improvement and implementation of new services. As I said, since 2013 we have been operating with more than 2 million euros on 25 bus stations and are working to achieve this intermodality in the big cities of Greece. We bid the service contract for the drafting of the construction project of the Vigo intermodal, so that it may be the first city to have an intermodal station itself, integrating the bus station and railway station into the same plot. At the beginning of the year too, as you know, we bid service contracts for studies prior to the intermodals of the Coruña, Santiago and Ourense, to work in which these bus stations are integrated into railway stations. And we moved on yesterday even at the Ourense intermodal, in the city of Burgas, with fieldwork, with surveys to work at that bus station integrated in the railway station in Ourense, which, with regard to metropolitan transport, Mr. Fernández, of course, is that we can launch the metropolitan transport plan in mid-2016. The real will now exists both in the Town Hall and in the Council of Galicia. The real will is the best formula, of course, to get the projects forward. And precisely, serving and improving the service and information provided to citizens is the main objective of the operating aid system, the SAE – which you have not commented on –; a step, of course, of decisive technological modernization for both the sector and users. It is a service we hope that it will be fully implemented in the first half of 2016, thanks to a close proximity of the Union, also from European funds – €2.1 million that brings to Galicia – and also from the companies that provide the service, which must bring up funding by assuming the costs of the allocations in the vehicles of the tracking systems and also of the ticket. In addition, in order to improve connectivity and coordination among the different means of transport in our community, we have signed – which you have not mentioned – together with Adif, Renfe and Aena, the collaboration agreement for the combined ticket. Mr. Fernández doesn't seem to see any advantages to this combined ticket to coordinate that airports are more accessible. I assure you, of course, it is a measure to me of great importance, because it promotes intermodality and the transhipment of passengers in public transport by road, rail and air. And, as I said in my first speech and I have to repeat, there is a silent measure that has contributed, of course, decisively to citizens' use of collective transport for their daily displacements and that undoubtedly is the start-up of the Metropolitan Transport Plan around the areas; a plan that offers great advantages to users, free transhipments, discounts that are around 50% and that mean 600 euros annually to families. It is therefore an important aid to the family economy. It also releases traffic in the centers of our villages and thus gives rise to a better well-being for all citizens, since it is a collective transport that reduces pollution and contributes to the improvement of the quality rates of our cities. The Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan is consolidated, with more satisfactory results every day. At the beginning of this month, as I said in my first speech on September 14, 8 new municipalities were incorporated in a short time; they are significant data and, of course, successful that we have found those who use metropolitan transport. In the first fifteen days of deployment, 12,000 trips and 1,000 cards in these eight municipalities – only in fifteen days–. Mrs. Pontón says that we don't think about the countryside and that metropolitan transport doesn't reach the countryside. Of course, we bet on rural and we improve rural services. Through metropolitan transport and by metropolitan transport this government brings benefits to the rural, because Baleira and The Bath big cities, big cities, are not. And we also improve rural services with the operating aid system, which will provide service to bus transport, as well as the TES+BUS service. Also in the Vigo area are important advantages of metropolitan transport; it is also credited with numbers: 25,000 cards that have been put into circulation and one million trips in five months. And I repeat the fact that I also said at the beginning because it's a very relevant and important fact: one million trips each month in metropolitan transport and 600,000 vehicles, so they stop walking our streets. It's data I think meaningful and they say we're an effective measure. It's a plan that we positively value everyone who uses metropolitan transport, favours displacement and improves the service, which is adapted, of course, to what the Greeks really demand; a plan that is geared towards boosting the use of collective transport, achieving more and more environmentally friendly mobility, and the best evidence is that it contributes to boosting the use of collective transport, and a proof is the data we also know today. Today Mrs. Martínez said we didn't do anything about the river transport. River transport benefits from metropolitan transport, and that's why river transport has grown by around 50% this year. So today, ladies and gentlemen, this government of what you're talking about is about ongoing projects, benefits to citizens and projects that we're launching, that we're launching and that we're going to launch. So the numbers are there, and I think they're coming down on us, they say what we've done. And a significant fact is the requests that continue to ask us for the councils so that we continue to expand our metropolitan services, which certainly indicate that we are on the right track. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u191	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u192	Madam Counsellor, in the debate of the Road Law, the amendment of the Road Law, were rejected by the Amending People's Party, for example, that urban truces contain measures that guarantee mobility and safety for pedestrians, or also actions on existing roads, or that in the planning of new roads should take account of the construction of bicycle cars. Or the removal of structural barriers has also been rejected. This happened in August, and you come here now to tell us that the plan of the board where you are working is precisely in all of this that you refused in the Road Law. But who's going to believe you're going to take something forward when you refuse to collect it in law? Of course, I feel like I have to think again about you in the election campaign. An amendment to the explanatory statement was also rejected, saying, "Incorporating measures to ensure the mobility of all people for greater safety on the roads, both for travellers and for cyclists, occupants of motor vehicles and wild fauna." It wasn't accepted either. So we don't understand what you're coming here to tell us about a movie like the one you're telling us. For here we are trying to cohesive the territory; it is about favouring the mobility of towns and villages, promoting the mobility of the interior of Galicia, which is totally isolated, and you deny. He's totally isolated! In the province of Lugo it is tremendous to live and have to get out of Lugo somewhere. You told us we were going to Madrid in three hours. We'll get to Madrid sooner than the luxury Navy or the Vilalba or the Lugo itself. So you're planning a transport that's not good for the Greeks and the Greeks; it's not. We need to coordinate the means of transport, the transport of rivers, the train, the bus and the plane, but also coordinate their metropolitan transports to have easy, easy, easy access, in time, with the university, with the jobs, with the hospitals, with the health centers, with the schools. For example, in Vigo. Do you know that we have this fast train in Vigo, but that from 6:30 till midnight there is no other one, that the following will go to Guixar and that there is no collective means of transport that will transfer you from Guixar to Urzáiz? That's in the biggest city in Vigo. And, of course, there is no one moving you from Guixar or from Urzáiz to, for example, the university or the new hospital in Vigo without having to move to another stop. He's talking about frequencies and tariffs. Frequencies, low, and expensive rates, me, very expensive. The new high-speed train is very expensive, and the bonds don't respond to people's needs. A poor or virtually non-existent rail transport inside, as I said, when exactly the train I think represents sustainable transport and when, in addition, we already have the roads made, they are simply abandoned, the mountain. In the results balance that provides us with your management, of course, I miss an analysis of why Galician traffic accidents are increasing, and above all serious traffic accidents, and why Galician traffic accidents continue to be unsafe on conventional roads, which are still homeless and homeless, and our rural neighbours and neighbours tell them that as a solution they put on a reflective vest. Or they tell us that what is going to be done in rural will benefit because there are seven plans in rural to make pedestrian paths. Do you really believe that the problem of people living in rural areas is that they don't have pedestrian paths? Is that really the problem? When it turns out that in the countryside there are no little marks in the bus stops, they have no frequencies, they have no train connections, just by the road... a real abandonment. Tell us about the coordinated or intermodal ticket, as if it had just been invented by Junta. It's already implanted practically throughout the undeveloped world. You're 40 or 50 years late and they want us to applaud them. But, above all, the price is insurmountable for most workers and workers in our country. And he says it has increased the transport of laughter. I suppose you'll refer to the fact that in Vigo's stream this year there were more people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u194	...that he used during the summer to transport laughter to the Cyes or to go to the Morrazo. Therefore, Counselor, I think it is a great failure. And I'm sorry that you were not sensitive to addressing all those people who are suffering from traffic accidents in Galicia because of the bad situation on our roads and the misuse of road transport. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u196	Thank you very much, Counselor. I don't understand why you're angry, when we are identifying problems that exist in this country, that we are moved to and that we also know why we live in Galicia. So here comes a triumphal speech, disconnected from the problems of reality and which has a very large part of propaganda. And I'll explain why. I tried to do it in my first intervention, but since you don't respond to anything at all and you just want us to come here to applaud you... that you'll understand that that's not our role, among other things, because there's no reason to do it. If the situation was magnificent, we would say: you did it well, but the situation of mobility in this country has serious structural problems that the PP policy has not solved, which has accentuated them. I gave you an example that we believe is important: road transport policy. What did the PP do in that matter? When there was a possibility of reviewing a map that, as I say, responds to the mobility needs that could have existed thirty or forty years ago, they made a change to the Transportation Act to expand what there was already and therefore they removed the instruments that could have at that time the Government to make a rearrangement of the transport needs, because I suppose their advisors have a plan, within all those studies they do, and it would be very good to tell us how much they've spent on planning studies. I imagine you know what the current population flows are, what the mobility needs are. I guess you'll know, you'll know, and everything you're doing answers that question. Or do you not even have a basic document in mobility planning? Perhaps not, because I suppose you will be aware that today there is not the same mobility needs in this country that thirty years ago, that communications, for example, between The Road and Santiago de Compostela are absolutely different, or between Santiago and La Coruña, or that you will know the dynamics of Ferrol, or the problems in Ourense, with a very old population. I suppose all of this will be part of your concerns. And what do you tell us? That they set up a metropolitan transport plan – which has the name metropolitan because then I'd like to see really where the livelihood is, but that's an accessory, in any case – that only affects 65 municipalities in this country and that is panacea. So it's not, and it denotes that you, moreover, have a conception in which you have to do the least and say: as these are, in a very important part, municipal competences, we are there as spectators, and if, in passing, we take out a little rifi-rafe with Mayor Vigo – which at this point seems to be the most important thing to the People's Party... – for much better, and give them whatever services the citizens have. That's why I told him: to the rest of the municipalities in this country – which we believe to be up to 314 – what is the alternative of transport that gives them to Joina? Do you have any plans, do you have any political or tariff measures? Any of us, who travel around the world, see that the policy of metropolitan transport tariffs is anecdotal in the past, that today throughout Europe there is a much more flexible tariff policy, which is really intermodal throughout its network and that here we have nothing of it. So don't come to tell us that one thing that is absolutely archaic – because we have an archaic public transport system – is panacea, because it's not. And they don't like to talk about the railroad, but we don't have any neighborhoods. Galicia is the country with the largest population dispersal and we are the country that is least close to the Spanish state. How do you get married? They spend billions of euros modernizing the network in part, with many deficiencies, and what happens is that most of the towns that used to have a precarious railway service now see how a train passes and they can't use it; towns like Orders, The Carballino..., sites of that relevance. And in many places where there were walkers now there is no kind of service. Isn't that part of your concerns, Counselor? And I say again: Mr Feijóo – not this honourable Member – as President of the Union, in 2010 – which should be the year in which he was inspired in the field of transport – in a debate about the state of the nation, in this very room in which we are today, said that he was going to set up the German Railway Authority to manage the surroundings in this country. We're in 2015 and we want to know what's going on with that. We're also concerned, Counselor, that they spent more than a million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u198	...in three studies and they promised to put a light meter in the Coruña, in Vigo and Santiago – which is in all newspapers; it doesn't matter when you put it, which is repeated – a million euros! Where are those studies? What do they say, what do they do? Are you going to do something to Join them or are there just some consultants here that are lining up? This is really a theme that has a lot of entities. And I think you're coming here to tell us that everything is wonderful, because it's not true, just like the dissuasive parking lot. Look, they promised...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u200	...16,000 squares, how is 500 now the panacea – Saint of Compostela? I repeat, it's not new squares, it's to condition a space that already existed. Where's the rest? What about everything they proposed in the cities? But you don't realize that all you come here to tell us is that the only thing they do is fool people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u201	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u202	...and spend money on studies that never run? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u204	When we say we don't prioritize sustainable mobility, alternative mobility modes, man, don't take it literally. When we talk about where the dissuasive parking lots are, well, because you just said it, there are two and a half times all over the country. That's your balance. Well, don't take it literally. When we're talking about priorities, we're talking about what is the proportion of the effort you're making on high-capacity roads for car transport, individual transport, and what is the effort you're making to fully plan a sustainable mobility policy. Because we can talk about mobility alone, and then we're just talking about making it easy for everyone to get to it quickly everywhere, but if we add the "sustainable", it's supposed to be because we have environmental targets for reducing polluting emissions, reducing mobility, improving collective transport, etc. And in that you have a suspension and, in fact, you couldn't give comparative data here about when you got to the Government and now because you don't have them; you don't even follow up. It's just that you don't have a sustainable mobility policy. Look, in a commission appearance, the Director General of Infrastructure explained that in the Vigo area they were working with river transport, metropolitan transport, they were doing everything very well in sustainable mobility, and to justify the expansion of Rande's rail, he said that in the coming years, he was going to increase the number of vehicles passing through Rande Bridge. How do you eat that? If you've adopted those Pull and Push concepts -- that is, if more users go to collective transport, if we talk about sustainable mobility, it's because they're then reduced in individual transport. If it increases in both areas, we can't talk about sustainable mobility. And that's why, when you say proposals, of course I make proposals for you: they take the nearby train seriously, there's a route made by Ferrol-La Coruña. Why didn't the proximity service on that network go after thirty years of government? That's a proposal. When they do the investment analysis on pathways like A-52 they apply rationality and they don't apply the business to companies, which is one of the keys, because I think you fools aren't. The key is business, and you prioritize some interests and not others. Do a different analysis, as I told you before. The analysis has to do with the demand, but with the demand induced by new channels of communication, and if I told you badly before – which Mr. Losada told me – because in reverse: a higher offer increases the demand. That's right. They do the calculations taking into account that: they prioritize collective transport, they have an integral strategy, they ask fewer questions about the gallery, because the pedestrian paths... how much did you say, 100 kilometers? How many kilometers does the Galician Junta have on roads of autonomous ownership?, Counsellor; how many kilometers does it have and how many kilometres of pedestrian paths made during these years on the roads, simply on roads of autonomous ownership? Which is very easy, that is to take into account, in the project, that you have to leave 2 meters so that people can walk. They didn't even consider it, because they don't have it in their policies, they don't have it at the heart of their policies. For you, this is an accessory, just like climate change is a very nice thing to celebrate one day, but it's not at the heart, it's not important to you, nor is it important to reduce energy dependence. So they make serious and ambitious policies in this; they talk to their mayors, talk to the mayors of other parties, and tell them that policies also have to take into account bike and pedestrian movements; they modify the Road Law and force – unless there is any justified exception – to be told in the new building projects with bikes and pedestrian tracks. So I invite you to bet on rationality, but that's not what you're doing, Counselor. Do you know how much it is about building roads and keeping roads and how much it is about what can be called sustainable mobility? Do you know what the General Directorate of Mobility budget is? 18 million euros, and for roads is 230 or 240. So you're not prioritizing sustainable mobility, you're now talking about the metropolitan transport plan. Did you make a comparison of how metropolitan transport was 100 years ago and now, or 30 years ago and now? Public and collective transport in metropolitan areas is worse today than 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u206	It's worse today in the metropolitan area of Coruña than 100 years ago. And you're getting dizzy at people, you're already losing up to... they always tell us in the campaigns, we're always talking about the surrounding train, the light subway, etc. Because, how many projects go from light meters in the Coruña?, how many are going? How many projects are going to talk about the nearby train? And in the end, what did you guys do? That's the balance you have to come here to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u208	I'm done. If you talk about sustainable mobility, give data and say how much emissions due to transport have been reduced in the years you've been ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u210	Good afternoon again. Obviously, it ended the week devoted to sustainable mobility and I have the feeling, indeed, that you, Counselor, were obliged to pay tribute to this celebration and had no better occurrence than to climb this stage and drop us a short of inconsequential actions called "plan for the promotion of sustainable mobility." Counsellor, you have already given us the change: the program with which the People's Party competed for the 2012 self-elections compromised the adoption of the Mobility Act; do you therefore renounce the fulfilment of the electoral commitments of your party? or do you intend to give us the change by announcing a plan instead of a law? You are definitely installed in inconsistencies, in occurrences, in the anecdote of the promise of a law to the virtual exposition of a plan, in this case in mobility. Counsellor, you are debasing dangerously basic concepts of mobility, and the data does not give rise to doubts, but the reason for concern, the underlying reason for our concern is much deeper, because it theorizes frivolously with key words in mobility to pervert its meaning in practice. Do you think you can reduce the concept of metropolitan transport to a plan of aid? Well, that's what you did. Do you think you can happily use the word "intermodality" without any practical results on your part? So that's what you do: not a single intermodal infrastructure. So less use really important words in mobility, because in the end we lower the meaning and thereby minimize the actions. The concepts of metropolitan transport and intermodality, strictly applied in practice, are the guarantee of sustainable public transport, and sustainable mobility. You have reduced the amplitude of these concepts in the real application and thus turned a sustainable transport into an unsustainable transport. As insubsible is the situation of his counseling and his own. You have lowered the category of metropolitan and intermodal transport in the iodine of mobility, but put the winding-up cartel for closure in all areas of your department. Only then can you understand that you have not come to this House with more assiduousness in view of the competences and the importance it has for citizens. And you did not come to account for the serious situation of river sanitation, nor to explain the deprotection that is suffering from environmental protection areas; nor to take into account the worrying general situation of sanitation and cleansing in towns, towns and cities; nor to explain the situation and conduct of Sogama, nor to share with the municipalities your concern about the failure to manage, nor to account for the real effects of the application of the Law on the Back, nor to explain the situation of public transport of passengers and the situation of the sector, nor to – and summary – explain the situation of any mode of public transport. You don't come here either to explain the problem of road conservation. You have succeeded, Counselor, in degrading and reducing the importance of the areas of your competition to irrelevantness, to making them unusable to citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u211	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u212	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, as you could well verify, on the part of the opposition we did not hear a single constructive contribution to this debate, and that, in their opinion, was not because it was because, as only happened in the European week of mobility... but, yes, they came with the script to discredit us well established and even to do it in an despicable tone, demeaning us. I, the only words I heard from the voices were that we are not really, that we deceive people, that we make the ridiculous, that we saw here tell movies, and that you made a triumphal speech. I think you guys got the wrong movie, saw another one, gave them another tape in the box. The Counsellor came here to give a description of what her department is doing with the overall mobility management, and in the whole of the Environment and Territory and Infrastructure Council. You didn't give a single data to contrast with what the advisor came to tell us about the progress of our mobility policies, but I'm going to give them more data to see if they're movies. Look, thanks to metropolitan transport, a neighbour of Mine who works in Ferrol, thanks to metropolitan transport can save more than 1,000 euros a year; a neighbor of Guntín who works in Lugo can save more than 1,100 euros a year, or a neighbour of Laracha who works in Coruña can save more than 900 euros a year; and I suppose this will like Mr. Losada and his companion Vigo: a vigue who works in Porriño can save between 400 and 600 euros a year. And that's what Mr. Caballero doesn't want to include urban transport in metropolitan transport, so that the transhipments are free, with which the saving levels of Vigo citizens would be much higher. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But as it is here, it is not to benefit citizens, but to boycott all the projects that are signed by a leader of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u213	Quiet, please. Silence, Mr. Gallego, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u214	It's all good for you, and it's not all good for you, it's not all good for you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell Mr. Caballero, Mr. Losada, that he only had to contribute to the year 265,000 euros. If they want to boost sustainable mobility, they put 265,000 euros in it and you'll see how Vigo's citizens will thank him more. [[Murmurs.]] Much more, much more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They say, "It's just this government isn't deploying the neighborhoods." Well, Mr. Sánchez, don't put the car in front of the woods: first the boss, who takes it to a gentleman who, by the way, is of the best there is in Spain in half distance, who is also the manager of half distance; first the boss is implemented, then a study is done, lets the study be published and then the political decisions are made. Are you already a projectivist to determine where to go in the future for the connection of proximity between Ferrol and La Coruña? Why do you have to say it has to be on the current track? The current route doesn't even apply to the medium- and long-term, thinking about the future. I'm going to tell you what their comrades were doing – now the opposition – when they were in the Government for half a distance: look, a trip between The Coruña and Ferrol cost 4.90 euros, the bipartite subsidized it to 19 euros per passenger; a trip between Ourense and the Mosque that cost 7.50 euros, the bipartite subsidized it to 41 euros per passenger. Do you know what was the result of the policy of wasting the money of the Galicians and the Greeks? Well, look, these railway services ended up with a deficit of EUR 39 million, and Junta, of these EUR 39 million from 2002 to 2009, paid EUR 25 million. This is the result of the foundations for the implementation of the neighbourhood service. Well, welcome to your triumphalism, go on. Home, Mrs Martínez, say that the combined ticket belongs to the modern countries, because look: the United States is the first world power, if I am not mistaken, and they are quite scarce in railway services, they are copying from the Spanish model of railway services. So I don't think it's a policy that completely extends to all the modernised countries, nor do I think it is. [[Applause]] And man, Mr. Fernández, who was part of the extinct Territorial Policy Council, who is here to tell us that he is a child of the advisor's report, when you know that he has EUR 675 million in relation to the last budget that you have executed and administered; and that you, with those EUR 675 million more than they had in your last year, have left us more than 377 kilometers of high-performance routes or paralysed or delayed roads. How many pedestrian paths have you done, Mr. Fernández?, how many? How many bike cars have you done? They tried to make one from Vigo to Nigrán, which was an absolute disaster
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u216	What have you done for concessions in this country, Mr. Fernández? Let them expire, more than two thirds, and they were about to ruin the sector... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u217	Quiet, Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u218	...and that's why we had to pass a modernization law and a modernization plan, and thanks to that, companies are still open today and still working. But of course, reality doesn't like them, and they don't care that there are governments that have feet on the floor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u219	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Shut up. Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u220	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot deny that in recent times there is a growing trend in our society, which points to an increase in the use of public transport, in daily movements, to the detriment of the particular vehicle; a tendency that reflects, of course, a change of habits in society, a greater awareness and a greater commitment for alternative mobility. But the truth is that there is still a lot to do – of course yes – to achieve, increasingly, that rational use of the means of transport and to move towards an increasingly sustainable mobility. The achievement of this goal involves a greater involvement of citizenship and, of course, involvement, commitment and determination of all administrations, institutions and public bodies. Aware of our responsibility and of the importance, of course, that it has sustainability in transport and in the movements of our citizens, from the German Government we have promoted and carried out a set of coordinated and complementary measures, that is: actions that focus on promoting public transport, building new infrastructures, also equipping equipment, improving services...; two fundamental objectives: increasing the provision of services to the Greeks and, of course, protecting our environment – paying energy savings and avoiding carbon release to the atmosphere–. We will achieve benefits in this way and, of course, improve quality. This is the way we are working on and, of course, we must continue, of course, to promote the use of public public transport through the Metropolitan Transport Plan. It's just like that. He's subsidizing a million displacements every month, which means avoiding 600,000 vehicles in our streets a month. We want to make it to more areas, more areas, Ourense, of course incorporating new municipalities and also improving the long-distance bus; because so, too, of course, it will benefit all Galicia and our rural one. If we improve the service of urban lines to enter our cities, of course, we give greater service to citizens and that's what they're demanding. We are working and we are working to increase stops at the center of the cities of the interurban lines in 2016, and we are pushing, of course, the SAE – the operating aid system – which is a very important tool to improve transport and transport services in rural areas, allowing for mobility, to have information on the real situation and, also, to know the demand for greater guarantees and better services to the neighbours; and also the promotion of the combined ticket – hence, the combined ticket facilitates the arrival, coordination and accessibility of the airports in Greece. And all this without forgetting the growing importance that we must give to alternative mobility, of course. We built suitable paths to connect rural areas, EUR 35 million in European funds, but that's why: so that our rural neighbours can travel to the health center, to go to schools, to go to those basic services. And we put these infrastructures on them so they can do it with maximum security. With regard to the neighborhoods – which you all commented on – of course, when you talk about mobility and proximity, what is always done – of course, what is always done and what is logical – is, first, to study the real needs, to study the real demands and real needs; and then, the logical thing is to find the proper and efficient way to adapt to these real needs, and not the other way around: first, we think about the service and then we justify that it has to be that service. The logic is always like this, it has always been like this; of course, I always understood it that way. And for the first time – it is true – there has been an increase in the number of travellers in Galicia, both in the medium and not the distance – I believe it is a very important data that we should not forget. And we have all added a new aspect that in the council, of course, is very important to me – which I have not heard practically anything today, something to Mrs Martínez –: the awareness and awareness of society, starting with the younger ones. Perhaps because of being a mother, I give great importance to awareness-raising work, because what we learn from young people is taught forever, for all life, and that's why we work on a new awareness-raising campaign for road safety for sustainable mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about actions that demonstrate the will of the Union to work, to achieve greater sustainability in transport and in the day-to-day movements of our citizens; but, as I say, it is not enough with the will and with the improvement of the services put down by the administrations: we need collaboration, participation of all, of political representatives, institutions, administrations, organizations, companies, of all citizens. [[Murmurs.]] Sustainable mobility in which we are all involved and that we have, of course, a role all protagonist, we all have shared responsibility – the administrations of course – and that is why everyone, from our different responsibilities, must contribute, with small gestures, by changing daily routines, of course, we will achieve a great result, to achieve that sustainable mobility goal. We must be aware that it is a useful goal, a beneficial goal for the whole of society, because it certainly results in an improvement in quality, but also a useful and beneficial goal for our environment, because, of course, to move forward in sustainable mobility is to advance in the protection and care of our environment. For my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u221	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the social considerations collected in the memory of the Economic and Social Council of Galicia of the year 2014
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u222	No amendments were tabled. To formulate it has the floor to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u223	Good afternoon, everyone. As you know, we put in substance today the motion after the interpellation that was in the past Pleno with the advisor who is absent today, and who seemed to him to ask too many questions in that interpellation – exactly 23–, and who understood it as an argumentary that he lacked enough time to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks what they were doing. Well, the truth is in that diagnosis it seems that the advisor himself said she was in line with some of the analysis that we did from the Alternative Gaga de Left: she was very concerned about the situation of unemployment, she was very concerned about the situation of child poverty and was concerned about some of the enormous deficiencies that she was showing or completing the report issued by the Social Economic Council, just this July – the 6th day itself. True and true, if this is so, let's now say that it is up to us that the People's Party to show this shared reflection through the facts, at least in part. I say "partly shared reflection" because what we ask for in this motion, through five points, is a plan – as we say in the first paragraph – to rescue people, or – if you want – a plan that centers your action on the so-called social emergency. Therefore, transversal – if I may be allowed – in a kind of four-point action: the first of them, is what it has to do with social deprotection; the second of them, what it has to do with incomes of social integration; third of all, what it has to do with child poverty – I suppose we will all be worried about this issue in our country – and also about the situation of dependents and dependents; and, of course, also with mental health plans. And I say this because the Economic and Social Council was demolishing – it is not a revolutionary body – even so devastating that it would be very good that this of what they assumed today in the morning in the debate, of the magnificent performance of the People's Party with regard to employees and public employees, it would be good for Mrs Prado to read that report; because that body – I insist that it is not Marxist-Leninist – clearly points out to the Government of Galician Union that they no longer deteriorate – and I literally read to the responsible lady and spokesperson of the PP on these issues – the working conditions of the public staff. I insist, the Galician Economic and Social Council, and they don't come from the Left Galician Alternative Group. But, too, the Economic and Social Council found relevant issues: the first of them was that there was a deep social gap in our country that was actually abounding in social inequality and allowing the richest to become even richer, and the poorest were not only poor but were the path of true social exclusion; and it even spoke clearly of that report that the material living conditions of people were rather bad. The interesting thing – and the requests we make in this motion – is that, however, the Economic and Social Council called for quite sensible questions, such as the implementation of budgetary resources in several areas of which we ask or urge this motion, which are in health, education and social protection. Well, here we are, and this is the debate we bring here today. For example, when it comes to one of the fundamental points that is the deficit we have in relation to the Risk, because, as far as the People's Party is now no longer assuming the Risk – or even telling us that it has implemented the resources of these 10 million at Risk –... because, of course, it is – that, if 10 million more are implemented, it is because, obviously, its policies are leading people to poverty and social exclusion, and of course we have queues and queues of people who go to the social eaters or go to the Caritas because they have nowhere to eat. And true and true is that we have a series of evasa in the very process of risk which should be attended by the Government of Galician Union; for example – very interesting data – only 58.3% of the Risk are granted, compared to 41.27 %. But what technicians and techniques are asking for is the attention to the new profiles of social exclusion, those new realities of poverty that we have near us, those normal people – between quotes – who are socially excluded, those poor workers who are already these new profiles and who are part of the consequences of the crisis that you caused. But even, apart from these new profiles, we are also asked by the technicians and professionals of this matter, indeed, to pay attention to what we have been asking for from the Alternative Glaga de Left and what has been denounced by the People's Valator himself: the undue delays in processing it; they say the public reports: minimum attention in the autonomous community, at Junta, 6.5 months; and, in the municipalities, at least 2.5 months. But it also tells us about this bureaucratic process that makes it almost impossible or slows down the very process of risk; it speaks of ingenious documentation, of documentary density which is absolutely unnecessary in many cases and which is preventing the protection of people – that, we insist, for eight or nine months are not carrying a piece of bread to the mouth –. This is the reality of the facts. I insist, it's not a Marxist-Leninist organism, but it's technical reports, and we're also told by those technical reports that we have to cover another part that's the budget deficit once the risk itself is processed. Because there are many times that we do have people who can or can access it but who actually have no budget for it. It seems to us that this is a sensible matter, that is, we think this initiative is going to be adopted today by the vote of the majority of this House which is the People's Party. But we would also like to see this initiative – as we call for at point four – actually meet the demands on dependency. Very relevant questions, of the good that we are doing in Galicia in view of the averages of the state, and it is that, for example, in view of the state average of public spending, which is set at EUR 104.49, because Galicia does not reach the EUR 90 or the EUR 89; that is, we actually have a negative differential with regard to the state averages, we would like to know why. You, who are the government of the social, who do everything, who get up every day thinking about the poor in the world, because we would like you to explain to us the voice of the People's Party why there is this negative differential in relation to the rest of the public administration. But there's also more than worrying data, and it's that the rate of disregard for the dependency of this country -- it's no longer the bipartite, when you screamed and did tremendous things in the face of the evil bipartite, now it's no longer -- it's placed by public reports at 41%. But also very relevant data, and we have a 24% waiting list of people who need this. I will not speak of other realities – which we could speak of – but, we insist, in our motion we call for urgent action in this matter. And also, leaving it to the end – perhaps because it's especially important – that affects the social disprotection we have in our country. As you know, we have 177,000 people who are unemployed and have no social coverage. 177,000 people! It doesn't even come to the ratio of one out of three people who are unemployed and have no social coverage, and what we ask you to do on this initiative is that we just act as other autonomous communities do in this area. We don't discuss the title of competences, we act, because they have rights, they're human beings. And, of course, we have a shortage of time, indeed, we are acting in child poverty. I suppose this is what they tell us every day that they cry a lot when they see the Syrian refugees, children and children, dead on the beaches and here, well, give them an attack of solidarity to all of you, I suppose they will now be exemplary and vote on this comprehensive plan that we ask to predict and alleviate the situation of child poverty that exists in the 21st century in this country, in this nation called Galicia. So, as matters of common sense, it doesn't say anything tremendous, it's neutral in the ideas it does and, in addition, it's supported by technical reports, we understand that this government, which has extreme social sensitivity, is going to vote favourably. As far as poverty is concerned, we also have over 667,000 poor people. So let's act, it's over 24% -- it's the same even if they handle other reports, those who want 20% -- it doesn't matter -- and they're human beings who have rights. What is required of you is that you act in these people who, I insist, are human beings. So if you are right to say or point out that you are going to rectify and change your policies, we would ask you, of course, to vote in favour of this initiative. I insist, official public data, and they're not from revolutionary bodies, they're from "neutral" centers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u225	The ESC's report shows the dramatic situation that Galicia is experiencing and rejects the People's Party's publicity campaign on Greek economic recovery. Among the most serious problems in our country that have been mentioned in the report, we find that most of them lack the slightest attention from the Government of Greece. Thus, referring to the population, the ESC points out the weight loss of the population of the Galician population which has just represented 11% in 1990 representing only 5.9 % in 2014; rural depopulation, since 35.5% of the population is concentrated in the seven major cities, and a negative demographic balance with a high average population: the average age in Galicia is 45.7 years, while in the state it is 41.8, and the average age of the women of Greece is 47.3 years compared to 42.9 years in the state. In 2014, the population over 65 was already 24%, while the population under 16 was only 30%. This negative vegetative balance and the loss of new population affect low birth rates. The gross birth rate is 7.17 births per thousand inhabitants, while the mortality rate is 11 deaths per thousand inhabitants; that is, we lose population. With regard to unemployment, the ESC in its report says that the loss of active population fell by 1.3 % in 2014, that the active population was reduced by 150,700 people and the population occupied by 203,300 people, indicating an extremely alarming situation in the production sectors of Greece. It also signals the increase in long-term unemployed people to 49.8% in 2014, almost 50% of the population stopped. The male employment rate remains higher than the female employment rate. The age group that concentrates the greatest loss of employment is between the ages of 20 and 34, it is also the one who concentrates the greatest precariousness, the greatest eventuality and the part-time contracts, which are mainly concentrated on women and young people, which affects the birth rate again. It also points to the increase in the number of unemployed people over 45 years of age with family burdens and difficult placement, or that 92% of contracts made in Galicia during 2014 were temporary and most of them with a duration of less than one month. Part-time contracts accounted for 44% of women's signatures and 21.3% of men's signatures in clear gender discrimination. And in the application of collective agreements, the increase in serious and minor labour accidents, but also of serious deaths due to job insecurity. A milk quota representing 37.8 % of the State, but which concentrates 55.8 % of the holdings, and the small useful agricultural area which causes us to have these fires every year. As for the industrial sector, it highlights the loss of the four-point industrial protection index, that of 4.3 % decline in the manufacturing industry, the strong fall in the hydroelectric production that is not basically wind, the loss of competitiveness and leadership of the naval. And it's that we keep repeating and the board keeps repeating the same policy of concentrating occupation in the service sector; that is, of not creating wealth. Time is running out, but I also want to point out the continuing cuts in health care, the lowest ratio of health personnel in Galicia regarding the state and the increase in poverty. As time has run out, I'm just going to finish talking about gender violence because it's something that I think is important: in Galicia women killed by masculine violence account for 11.3% of the total state, while population is 5.9%. We have a problem with macho violence. I will therefore support this motion which includes necessary and urgent measures to address so much institutional violence against the people of Greece. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 177,000 people in Galicia who do not receive any benefit, more than 600,000 people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, more than 12,000 dependent people without paying attention. This is the situation in the country as much as the Union intends to continue to confuse its publications with reality. This motion focuses on the social considerations contained in the memory of the Galician Economic and Social Council and, on the basis of these considerations, proposes a number of measures to be included in a social emergency programme. And first of all, we want to emphasize that the BNG fully agrees with the proposed measures because the conclusions of the ESC's memory are demolition and strongly refute the official speech. The ESC is alert to the brutal increase in inequalities and, as a result, calls for, among other measures, more budgetary attention to health, education, social protection and social promotion. He draws attention to delays and difficulties in accessing the Risk and social emergency aid, or to waiting lists for dependents to suffer from entitlement to a benefit. It also calls for measures to eradicate child poverty, ensure social coverage and employment reintegration of unemployed persons who do not receive any benefits or care for persons with mental illness. But the ESC's conclusions on the economic situation in Galicia, not only about the social situation, are not wasted either. The ESC is warning you of the weakness in our country of such a tremendous recovery, let me stop for a moment in this ESC consideration because IGE and INE data have just corroborated it. In 2014, the Greek economy grew only half of what the economy did in the state as a whole, thus accentuated the economic gap between Galicia and the Spanish state as a whole. It turns out now that the Feijóo government – Mr Feijóo in particular said it in a recent interview – intends to justify it by saying that it is logical that the recovery is more vigorous where, according to him, it has been greater the fall; that is, it seems little to him that, according to the IGE, since the beginning of the crisis they had to leave Galicia 200,000 people, it seems little falls that there is in Galicia 160,000 people occupied less than when he arrived at the presidency and it seems little dropped that at that time the wages in Galicia fell 13% more than the average in the state as a whole. But the truth is that until recently Mr. Feijóo said something else and he did not intend to justify with these arguments that the recovery in Galicia is so weak; Mr. Feijóo until recently what he said was that Galicia was going to emerge from the crisis before and more forcefully than anyone and the data are the ones I have just contributed. Returning to the economic conclusions, the ESC warns that there are still obstacles for companies and self-employed to access finance. Nor is it strange, because d the arrival of Mr Feijóo to the Presidency of the Union turns out that Galicia is the community where the credit award has been most backward; per capita credit in Galicia does not reach half of the state average and we are already, together with Extremadura, the community with the worst credit ratio per capita. Returning to the economic conclusions, the ESC alerts the impact on the energy cost industry. This is in a country that is surplus in electricity production but which is prevented from having its own electricity tariff, while Alcoa and other companies are at risk of closing. In short, in many respects the memory of the ESC is an amendment to all the policies practised by the Government of Feijóo, a discarnated portrait of the country that has nothing to do with the official speech that sells to us from the board of Galicia. For all these reasons, of course, we are going to vote in favour of this motion, although I assume that, as much as it relies on considerations of the Galician Economic and Social Council, the People's Party is likely to vote against. The People's Party is very afraid that I would rather endure on the chosen path, though it leads to social ruin and national ruin to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u228	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group will support this motion of the Alternative Glaga de Left in relation, indeed, to a memory of the Economic and Social Council, which, as you know, is chaired by Corina Porro. I'm sorry that Mr. Gómez Alonso is not here at this time because he wanted to remind you that the People's Party, with these powerful policies towards Vigo, passed from the 13 concelers who conquered Corina Porro to the 7 concellers of the past May 24th; I say as he made continuous reference to the municipal situation of Vigo, finally, it's about updating the data, updating it to know exactly what we're talking about. The truth is, during the interrogation, the advisor has done something she's been doing since 2009, since she came to the Government. She is a work and well-being adviser and, of course, this Member has never heard of him in this Parliament being able to trust a speech that had linked the two areas of his advice. I think it is the show that we are actually watching, on the one hand, on labour policy issues, a laissez do – that is made up of training courses awarded under the door – and, on the other hand, a policy of social welfare that is absolutely supportive and has nothing to do with the rights of people as such. Unfortunately, this is the scene in which not only the Government of Feijóo but also the Government of Rajoy and the Government of the European Right are moving. And I want to set an example that has enough to do with this. In the last government, a great coalition I can't share, in Germany, the Social Democratic Party has won that a minimum wage has been established. Even today, the Merkel party advocated eliminating the minimum wage for refugees entering Germany. I think it's the perfect metaphor for the model, social, economic and labour that is being built from the right of Europe. And by the way, it's been building, unfortunately, for many years. We say so, the Socialists, Feijóo since 2009 turned Galicia into the testing laboratory of a brutal labour adjustment that developed in Spain when Rajoy came to power. We were told no. We were told absolutely unreal data. I always remember this patch of squares in public kindergartens, out of attendance, out of 0-3-year-old schools... in the end, I'm sure that, if we add them all together, we had more squares than children, because, unfortunately, we have few children and the squares grew, full after full, almost miraculous way. For that example, that right lab, that absolutely... would say stupid, but it's understood between quotes, the idea of zero deficits in a context of economic depression, with 25 percent unemployment, absolutely unexplainable from any economic theory. I insist, you don't have to go to the far left. From any economic theory, that a president of a government in a territory that has 23% unemployment says that his fundamental goal of economic policy is to have zero deficit, or I'm a little stupid, that he can, or is absolutely inexplicable. By the way, he was never able to explain it; neither he nor all his economic advisors, none. But the truth is he said it because he understood that he was asked to be a good manager, I imagine, in those many breakfasts between the Ritz and the Palace in Madrid that are part of the president's agenda. The truth is, we said there was no resistance in the lab. On 20 September, the re-elaboration of the official data of the National Institute of Statistics, there was no such plus of resistance, i.e. we are in relative terms in a position exactly like the starting position, that is yes, we meet the deficit, Feijóo puts on a medal, and the Greeks and the Greeks are much more upset than the Spanish set. That is the photograph that unfortunately reflects that report of the Economic and Social Council. Of course, this result is a result that has political objectives, let's not think that it's random fruit or that we only see a fact. And labour reform and innovation cuts were looking, exactly, for an alternative economic model of competing through wages which, of course, allowed the concentration of wealth because the income of capital grew much more than the income of wages. So I'm not worth what it says here that poverty decreases. It decreases in relative terms or according to incomes, but in the income distribution itself quite the opposite, there is greater polarization, therefore, what I understand also in this, as in the zero deficit, is that poverty, in the layers of the population, increases. In fact, employment decline, temporality, precariousness, the second lowest wages in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u230	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u231	...–Friendly, Madam President – means poor workers, means low wages, means therefore unsustainable pensions, and all that ends up meaning low taxes and economic cuts. And gentlemen, what does all this mean, economic cuts in public services and unsustainable pensions? Benefits to the private sector of the economy. And that's the road map. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u232	People's Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Of course, we've made it clear. I don't know if the rest of the Members and Members have, but since the People's Parliamentary Group we have made it clear. The issue of what we are debating today, the motion presented by the Glaga Left Alternative Group, is not a matter of hanging medals, it is not a matter of highlighting in this debate what the political group is right, it is clear to us that it is a debate of people, and the truth is that some Member and Member spoke very little about people and many other things that perhaps were not in this debate. You know, and of course we know, that the crisis we've been living in the last few years still has very hard consequences for many people. That's never denied, neither since the Galician Union nor the People's Parliamentary Group. We know that the economic recovery we've begun to see is not yet found in many Greek homes. And we know it's essential right now to follow the people who are still trapped in unemployment and those who are at risk of social exclusion. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, what we do not understand is that the Members and the Members of this House do not seem to know that in June this year the Council of Galicia has put in place a social plan against economic inequality, to ensure that no one remains without the necessary support. Despite the economic difficulties, the Greek Government has been making a great effort to combat inequality, to fight poverty and to fight social exclusion for years; an effort that, if desired, we can see it reflected in the budgets. In 2014, Junta launched the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy with an budget of EUR 521 million, agreed with the main social entities. The risk budget, which you know is a broad game based on needs and demands, will exceed 50 million euros this year, and also, for the recruitment of people who perceive the risk, 10 million euros are also allocated, which means a 100 percent increase in relation to last year. This year, about 300 million euros will be allocated to care for dependents. We're talking about that in a few years the budget has doubled for dependent people in our community. We can also talk about what we have in Galicia with four and a half million euros for social inclusion aid, or 9.5 million euros for the addition of non-contributory pensions, which cost more than 43,000 people in our community. And if we talk about fighting child poverty, in addition to the Welsh strategy of social inclusion, which has a specific goal that is to fight child poverty, which was conducted for the first time in Galicia, which was not studied by communities, about the situation of child poverty in Galicia. In addition, we have a National Social Inclusion Plan, with €136 billion, which has an extraordinary fund of more than EUR 17 million aimed at combating child poverty. In relation to employment, Junta launched a Youth Employment Plan for which EUR 100 million is allocated; EUR 10 million for the Long-Term Work Breakdown Plan; for training, more than EUR 66 million; EUR 27 million for entrepreneurs and cooperatives. So when we talk about how the Galician Union doesn't think and manage for people who need it the most in our community, it's been lying, because it's been working alongside people in unemployment and people in situations of social exclusion for many years. So in addition, in June this year, this social plan is presented against inequality, so that no one, so that no family needs it, would be left without the necessary support, to reach people who have virtually no resources, but also to reach those people who, having income, are clearly insufficient to cope with their expenses and their daily life. In this plan the Government of Galicia is involved, the councils, the deputies, the social entities of Galicia are involved, and has four areas of intervention: health, education, well-being and housing. Of course, we believe that all this information that is public, that Members and Members of this House have to know it, covers a lot more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u234	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u235	...—ending, Madam President—of what you are asking for today in this motion. Because look, you're asking for a four-measure social emergency program, which you just explained, and I just told you with budget data, with programs and measures, what you're doing to Galician Union. Of course, we respect this motion that you present, but I can tell you that your motion, next to what we just explained...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u237	...it's too small. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u238	Thank you very much. Motion author group. From the scene, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u239	First, thank the rest of the opposition groups for voting in favour of the motion. Mrs. Rodríguez, this is like a frontal, it doesn't matter what we propose. Look, I know perfectly well, because they repeat it fifty thousand times, the budgets dedicated to the Risk. On this initiative we do not ask for that. We call for the problems we have in the processing of Risk, mainly in that temporary stay of nine months, eight months, seven months, to improve or change the processing system. That's exactly what the People's Valuer was saying to him, to assist provisionally and then we'll solve, because the reality is that we have people nine months without -- I insist -- anything to take to the mouth. Secondly, Mrs. Rodríguez, I understand that you have read the Report of the Economic and Social Council, to me you go through the extreme left. The problem is that Mr. Jorquera is right – as we have told the advisor, by the way – that this report is a whole amendment to Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo's policies, that's the problem! And you're going here today to press the button saying not to this motion, saying not to measures for child poverty, saying not to saves to improve risk, saying not to the attention of dependents and saying not to the attention of mental health plans. Say no, you're the ones who didn't! And of course Mr. Losada is right! Look, this is what some authors call the economy of slavery. This is the model you're granting. They're changing the social order, of course! It is a model in which, in fact, they want to make us all poor. And even these authors are saying that slavery is in the payroll right now. Even if we're employed and hired, there's slavery, because it's not like we're not here at the end of the month, Mrs. Rodríguez, it's because the workers in the labour market don't have to eat, Mrs. Rodríguez. That's the social model that you build, so the Economic and Social Council puts the alarm voice and says it's a barbarity to the social divide that their policies – not ours from the opposition – are causing. And I'm done with something fundamental that Mr. Losada said. The cycle is closed, Mrs. Rodríguez. We're not stupid here, and the cycle is: we're down wages, we're down social contributions, we're raising less taxes -- what the counselor told us in the morning -- and it turns out that income falls. And how income falls, then what we do is, in fact, to prevent public services. In short, what you're doing is that you're anti-system, and it's the ones that are loading the poor social protection system that we had in our country. Indeed, what are you going to do today? Press not those 177,000 people who have nothing, nothing! It doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u241	...that they have welfare or work council, they rule against people. [[Applause]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Ramón Val Alonso, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the fishing of the boar, the reopening of the fishing of the jurel in zone VIIIc and the establishment of a new model for distribution of quotas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u242	This motion was presented with an amendment from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u243	Mr Val Alonso, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I was beginning in the full past, in the debate of the interpellation that gives object to this motion that we are debating today, telling the lady counselor that, in front of this new session that we start in this legislation, I had a deep feeling of jaja-vu, and I am convinced that surely the other voices will pass the same because, just two years after the current situation that is living the fleet of the siege in Galicia, we continue at the same point. The same point where the German Government is unable even to recognize that there is a problem and the distribution model does not serve. It's a model that doesn't work because we're in a tremendously unfortunate situation compared to the rest of the Spanish territory's fleets. Unfortunately this is how it is because the German Government has given up some time ago to defend this sector, it is not concerned about anything that has to do with this sector. It almost has an explanation, and the explanation is very simple, because the maximum director of the Fisheries Council knows perfectly what role he has to play today in the Government; he knows that he is politically amortized and that he is only shielding and parapeting the President. So the motion we are debating today is to talk again about one of these problems affecting the siege sector in Galicia. This sector, which is composed of 154 vessels, which employs around 1,500 people, direct jobs, and which unfortunately, since the People's Party is a government in the Council of Galicia and the State, is constantly being abused, over and over again, with all the policies that are being implemented from these two governments. I said, moreover, that this is not a new problem, it's something that has come from old age, and on this issue the Socialist Parliamentary Group itself has already registered an initiative in March 2013. At that moment we said the same thing we saw today saying. We wanted to warn you of the great issue that was being put on the table, that was that misalignment of fishing opportunities in zone IXa, which condemns our fleet to only 1.14% of the fishing opportunities in that area; and 1.14% of the fishing opportunities in that area. That's right. Justified in those manners and defended by representatives of the People's Party historical criteria. I'm sure the representatives of the People's Party know perfectly well that this division was an imposition on the Greek sector, an imposition on the former secretary-general of the Sea, that is, supported also by the Greek Government, offering them and telling them that it was not a closed division, that this division could be modified when this species appeared on the Greek coasts, that this was not a definitive division. That they were calm, that those tons for them to be able to work could come in case this species appeared. I wonder today, and I ask the representative of the People's Party, who was of all this, who was of that commitment acquired by the former Secretary General for Fisheries of the Ministry, Mr. Carlos Domínguez. Where are those tons, where is that question you put on the table. I wonder how the sector will trust you if you lie to it continually and frankly, because this I'm telling you is not something the Socialist Party invented, it's something you know perfectly well and that anyone can check in the hemerotheques, because that's what I'm saying, that commitment, is real. Today it's up to you to ask what actions you've put in, from the People's Party and from the German Government, to make that commitment materialize. Well, I don't think you're going to be able to say anything here today, because unfortunately the IXa zone has been closed for the fishing of the mouthpiece, for the Welsh fleet, in practice since February. It is true that there have been exchanges with Portugal and tons have arrived for our country, for Spain. But it has to be said that this division, on the basis of the criteria that are established, made Galicia only correspond to 12 tons of shellfish – look! – for 154 ships, against the 1,100 tons that corresponded to the Andalusian fleet. I don't know if the representatives of the People's Party think this is normal, if this seems logical to them. Of course, it doesn't seem logical to us. And after listening to Mrs. Counsellor's words in the full past, when I myself questioned her about this matter, saying that they were going to ask if I would enable 10% of the quota for that species to appear on our backs, the truth is that it leaves it a bit a bit abated. I don't know if you don't know that for months now there's been a lot of bites on our backs, that ships have to run away from fish in the sea so that the mouth falls on their nets. This is the situation, this is the situation. Ships can't fish, they have to escape the fish. And you know perfectly well that unfortunately, and because of the People's Party, usually those who fish are boats from another community, and ours either have to paralyze their activity or – as I said – play in the razor's thread. This question is not something new, it happened with all the species in the two fishing zones, in the VIIIc and in the IXa, and with all the species: with the yard, with the jury and also with the one it is about today, with the mouth. What we ask for today is something simple, as simple as setting a political position in defence of the interests of the Welsh fleet. Defending something that is beneficial and beneficial to the country, so that what you say continuously in your interventions, that of fixing population in coastal villages, that of promoting employment at sea, is a reality. It's as simple as that. I think someone should explain one day how it is possible that the German Government might be defending a distribution model that condemns the total ruin to almost 80% of the fleet of the siege. And this is not something that we say, it's something that they're moving day and day also the representatives of the sector. I'll never get tired of saying in this Parliament gallery that you need to do an exercise, that you put yourself in the skin of a shipowner of a siege boat that carries 10 or 12 crew members on board, to which you with this department have been granted, for the whole year, 10 tons, for example, of jure it, 15 tons of yard, and your mouth with the fishing possibilities I've just described, with 1.14%, and that you tell me if you can be viable a fishing company, with those 10 or 12 crew aboard, with the fishing possibilities that you've given you. Being very generous, those fishing possibilities could keep that boat running for at most two months, and if they're actually keeping it for longer, it's because there's a private entity that's responsible for taking on the role that the German Government itself should play, and that's jointly managing all of the quotas of those more than 120 round boats that make the joint management of fishing opportunities. And instead of standing next to him, the Government, day itself and day too, what he does is criticize them and dismiss them all and each of their claims. So we think something isn't right. Something doesn't work out when flexibility mechanisms are being made available to the sector, when quotas are moving forward the next year so you can keep up with the activity. Something is not working in the fisheries management that is carrying out the ministry, backed up, yes, by the Government in Galicia. So today the question is clear, the motion that we present to you is as simple as claiming from the Government of the State the fulfilment of the agreements established by the General Secretariat for Fisheries of the Mackerel as regards the fishing of the boar in zone IXa, providing the quota sufficient to ensure the activity in the remainder of the year. This is a commitment, Mr. Balsairo, a commitment from the former Secretary General for Fisheries. Therefore, the German Government must defend that these commitments are fulfilled. In the same motion we put a second point, where we request the reopening of the Jury fishery in zone VIIIc. Ships can't fish interest already in zone VIIIc, and for that the Government has many legal tools that can put in place so they can have quota so they can carry out their activity in these almost three months that are left for the end of the year. And the last important point is to request a new model of sharing based on socio-economic criteria for the next few years. I think these are issues that are not defending the Socialist Party, they are issues that are asking for the sector itself, many vessels, many jobs. So I hope, once and for all, that the People's Party realizes that there is a serious problem in the search sector, that it starts working and looking for solutions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u246	I tabled an amendment to this motion without trying to diminish or diminish the motion itself put forward by the Socialist Party. What I was trying to do and what I'm trying to do is move a reflection to the plenary. Since the beginning of the year and more, since last year, non-law proposals have been presented, motions, questions, interpellations that I personally have supported, but I have also tabled amendments that they intend and intend to make global agreements and decisions that reach the entire fleet, and in the case of the fleet of the Greek siege, both to which they have joint plans of exploitation as well as to which they have plans of individual exploitation, so that they can achieve the economic profitability of their campaigns, be either boars, swears, gardens, or sardines – in this case, unfortunately, very difficult – and other species that make up catches of that type of fleet, such as horse, bug and others. Unfortunately, we are not able to reach an agreement that allows us – I hear the whole sector – to lay the foundations for this economic profitability. The problem is not only in the quota, but yes, but, as has already been said in this plenary, the problem is in the price, just like in the milk; the original paid price does not cover costs. Do you know that the chincho paid the boats in length between 20 cents and 40 cents of euro or kilos? Or did the jury pay 70 cents of euro or kilo? Or didn't the garden pass over 90 cents of euro or kilo throughout the campaign? They do numbers, or tell the advisor to make a simulation of the profitability of a middle scout, and they'll probably put their hands in the head and repent of the votes and proposals they make in this Parliament. We are faced with a problem of incompetence of a counselor who did not tie agreements with the central administration or any other. A counselor who never meets, despite the opportunities given to him by the sector, who were many, many, many. Well, it's not just the socio-economic criterion and profitability, it's not just the distribution by number of crew members, it's also the cost of withdrawal and implementation in the sector of economic injections for the improvement of marketing. That's why my amendment does not intend to amend the plan for the Socialist Party, it only seeks to reach global agreements to try to save a sector that is aimed at scrapping if it is not remedied. Thus, in my amendment, we urge the Union to present within one month before the German Parliament, for its debate and approval, a plan of fishing for the craft fleet and for the lowering, in particular the fleet of the siege, to make the viability of this fleet economically profitable. The advance plan will include a study of necessary quotas and also a policy of withdrawal prices and its implementation. We are facing an extremely important sector for the economy of our country, a traditional sector and a sector abandoned by the State administration, of course, but also by the Greek administration. That is why we ask that this amendment be reached, if it is not a replacement, as an addition, to see if we are able to reach an agreement that saves our area of siege. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mr. Wheels Chapel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u248	The Socialist Party's initiative raised three questions. First, the State's lack of compliance with the bite of the mouth. They go there two years without doing anything at all and the data is absolutely demolition. This year, a 4,618-tonn quota, Galicia has touched nothing more and nothing less than 57-tonn. And after the exchanges with Portugal, he was once touched by 5 tons and the second time he was touched by 7. That is the reflection of the great negotiation, of the great commitment, of this Government to our fleet of siege. Similarly, in the second question, we also see the inability of the Government of Greece to distribute between the two fishing areas, which is the quota of the jury. This year he was unable to do a single management, compared to last year, he had to be the very association to which he had achieved a transvasion from the Basque Country. I wanted to focus on the third question, which I believe is the fundamental one in this case, on the inability of the Government of Greece to join our fleet and assume the Brussels guidelines, which imposes an individual division that the Spanish State executes and that the Galician Union shuts its mouth, which means a real ruin to our fleet. So this is the bottom line. Those responsible for implementing the individual division are the Government of the People's Party in Madrid and the Government of the People's Party here in Galicia. This is causing division and confrontation of the sector: 120 ships making joint management to survive, and 30 on the other hand because they're much better at individual management. And you know that this model leads to the ruin of our fishing sector. Look, if not, the reality of the sector: a ship any of those ships that are in the collective partnership, a ship that could be "with these PP we're going to pick." Look, a 50 GT boat, 21-22 meters tall, has a Jarda 7,000-8,000 kilograms per year, has a Jury 17,000 kilograms per year and a sardine, as you know, they have or have 3,000 kilograms per week. From the mouth – as we already indicated – they had nothing more and nothing less than 69 tons for the whole year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are the conditions in which you have to develop the fishing a 50-ton boat, with 12 crew members on board. It's easy to count because we all know the price of the fish. It is too easy to count, and, in contrast, to see the costs of gas oil, ice, water, water, water, nets, gears, depreciation, social security, company office, insurance premiums, advice, telephones, satellites, guides, financial expenses, repairs, ship effects, car climbs. And then all this adds up to wages and wages. Do you think a ship that costs 300,000 euros and carries 10 and 11 crew members on board can be kept with these our fathers? You think that's possible? This is the dramatic reality that the People's Party has been subjected to the Galician fleet, the reality of a sector that you are suffocating and that you are getting them to be subjected to a constant lie, but above all that they are also completely persecuted. They consider – I told them the other day – that they are developing an illegal activity, that is reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u250	You're getting a little tight, and the only solution that they get is layoff. But look, gentlemen of the People's Party, we don't want to clear the fleet, we want to be able to continue working as we came to do all our lives, with dignity. And for that, we need to change this situation, and this situation changes only if we are able to cope with this individual distribution model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u252	...that soon will extort us and throw us away not only to the fleet of the siege, but to all coastal communities that are so dignified living in this sector. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u253	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u254	Very good-night to all and all. [[Sounds background noise.]] Answer Whatsapp. The Left Galician Alternative Group makes its own every statement here made by the previous spokesmen and spokesmen regarding the situation of the fleet of the siege, but perhaps in one we have something to say. We don't think the advisor and the team that runs this country's fishing are an incompetent fact. Otherwise, they're doing the job for what they put them there. And the job they're doing is to end the fishing industry in Galicia. They have a roadmap that determines how they want it to be fishing in this country, and in the fishing they pose there is no room for the current model. So they don't know what they're doing, they're doing exactly what the great multinational fishermen pay them for. And today that we are debating here the situation of the fleet of the siege, in the Official Journal of Galicia, on page 38,021, the help of the Fisheries Council for the sector appears. And what a chance! for the final scrapping and paralysis of ships has published 15 million euros of aid, 15 million euros for scrapping! For the investment on board the ships, that is, to improve the health conditions, their fishing capabilities, the situation of their workers, just EUR 1 million. In other words, the Union's policy, which aims to break our fleet and end the fishing model that we had, is applied to the Union's feet. Meanwhile, they only spend 1 million euros updating our fishing conditions. But in that same bulletin, there is how much of this European Union aid money comes to the workers affected by the conversion of the fishing fleet; only 283,000 euros, only 26 workers receive help for the paralysis of their activity. We are therefore faced with a policy of reconversion of our primary sector, from fishing to agriculture and our gain. It's not that the People's Party is wrong, that its roadmap is very obvious and very clear. On your Twitter the fishing spokesman, the one who makes copied speeches from Wikipedia that then says they are false, and gives the Bureau a documentation supposedly from the Diplomatic Office, saying it's from there, and turns out he doesn't match what he said and therefore he doesn't have credibility, because he didn't even read the papers they give him, he said on his Twitter that the problem of this distribution was the intransigent position of Andalusia, which made the agreement impossible. Perhaps what happens is that Andalusia defends more the interests of Andalusians than the interests of the Greeks. Because the final decision is the state, and the state, with the ruling People's Party, prefers to end fishing in Galicia, and whenever we have to negotiate fishing opportunities ends up losing this country. So whose responsibility is it? From those who do not defend the Greeks, from those who do not defend their fishermen, from those who use our fishing as a currency of political change, if you don't know what. I ask the People's Party to remove the shellfish, to say above here that it is what it wants from our fishing and why it is using the lives of our fishermen and their fishing possibilities as the currency of change of political actions from other territories, because that's the only reality. In this situation – for example, on the theme of the mouth – it is clear that it is no longer a matter of quota, it is a matter of division, and the distribution is in the hands of the People's Party that governs us in the state. But since Galicia, since June, from the leaders of the People's Party, they are unable to tell you that we do not accept this division and that something else must therefore be done. Their inability to negotiate is absolutely manifest; they should therefore abandon their charges. Because we must remember that the secretary of the Sea said it was a temporary subject. Where's the timing? How many decades do we have to endure this temporality of getting out always damaged in the distribution? That is the question we have raised. So we are going to accept the three positions that the Socialist Group has put forward today, but we cannot help but tell that sector, which is very interested in each of these debates, which behind each of these alleged errors – which are not – is the decision the People's Party has made: the definitive conversion of our fishing sector; something that, of course, from the Alternative Left Gaga will do our best to avoid it. We therefore hope that this sector will understand that the greatest danger to the fishing sector in Galicia is the People's Party and its policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u255	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Let's see if we focus on the initiative we are discussing today. I have to say that I'm not going to answer the AGE spokesman, but I'm not going to answer for anything, because he's talking about anything but what we're discussing here. [[Murmurs.]] So when you start talking about fishing in this Parliament – which has been in this Parliament for three years and has never spoken yet – when you start talking, we will answer you. When not, no, because we're not here to waste time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're not here to waste time. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And concerning the initiative presented by the Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u257	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, Mr. Balsairo. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, you have no word, Mr. Balsairo. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u258	Referring to the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u259	Mr. Fajardo, would you like a call to order? Well, then do the favor, that you have been heard with respect. Mr. Balsairo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u260	With reference to the initiative presented by the Socialist Party, which Mr. Val, Mr. Val, I believe that in your initiative you play confusing, and I'll tell you why. First, he says the situation would improve with a crew cast. We have discussed it many times in this Parliament and we have explained why, and that in the People's Party we are the great advocates of a division by historical figures. That's what you say, that is, depending on the captures of the last few years. And precisely, man, that's what you applied when you ruled. When you were ruling in Galicia and Madrid, what you applied is what is being applied right now, right now. When they ruled, that is, with a pure sense, which is now applied to more socio-economic criteria and we don't understand that. But it doesn't matter, because you've already explained here to the Counsellor, as active and passive, that a crew cast would prove harmful to the Greek fleet. You're the same. I myself retained you in a commission even to study species by species in each of the fleets. They shouldn't study it because you didn't. Let's see if now, when I intervene again, he tells us something. You come back, besides, to insist on this motion to change the cast model. And I tell him that to earn a little bit in some areas – that, yes, in some areas we would earn a little bit – we would lose a lot more in others, or we couldn't even fish much more than we have with that distribution that you say. Moreover, the People's Group, by responsibility, cannot support the Socialist Party's motion. You're so confused, and you're so eager to get us wrong, that even to the point where we agree, which is point number one, that you claim to the ministry that you fulfill the commitment to allow for the fishing of the mouth in waters of the southern part of Fisterra, if you're wrong. No, I've got him here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's zone IXa and you're the one asking here is zone XIa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have to tell you, in addition, that there is no such area. [[Murmurs.]] But if this mistake had been done by any other Member, well, I wouldn't call much attention, but it's inappropriate for someone who is a former fishing delegate, I improperty for someone who is a former fishing delegate!, who doesn't know the areas in which the International Council for the Exploitation of the Sea divides the fishing areas. [[Murmurs.]] And you will understand, Mr. Val, that we cannot support a motion with an error of these characteristics, that would take our fleet of the siege, at least, from the Azores to there, at least the fleet of the Azores to there! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I mean, because zone 11A doesn't exist. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why we don't amend it. We could have fixed it. You could also make a bug correction that you did not, too. [[Murmurs.]] We could amend it, but we don't amend it because we have an initiative that will be discussed tomorrow, a non-law proposal that demands exactly the same, but, yes, with the right zone, the IXa area, which will be tomorrow. [[Murmurs.]] So why would we amend? [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] And you, who are so given to lay down other people's duties, should listen a little more to the sector you say to defend. [[Murmurs.]] But that's true, all over the industry, not only those who care. It's not about taking pictures in front of a concrete protest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u261	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u262	For example, listen to the Sectoral Commission for the Research of the Galician Fisheries Council. They support self-regulation measures that have been taken to improve the profitability and marketing of the main species in the siege. And on that constructive path, you will count on the support of the People's Group. Just as we hope that tomorrow you will start on that constructive path and support the People's Party's initiative where the right zone is requested, the IXa, and not the XIa, to which you refer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u263	Finish, please, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u264	I will finish, Madam President, by telling them that you continue to support - we hope - that initiative of the People's Party that agreed to the Galician Fisheries Council through the Committee on the Environment. Ultimately, the only thing we bring here is what they agreed on, why it's not a People's Party initiative, it's a sector initiative. And I ended up telling them that I thought, frankly, that the Counsellor, Mr. Val, had made it clear already in the past Pleno, when you intervened. I see you're coming back with the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u266	...but he returns with the same one with more mistakes. We want you to reopen in zone IXa and you in an area that doesn't exist, which is XIa. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u267	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u268	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u269	Motion author group. Mr. Val Alonso. Give him a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u270	Thank you, President. After the level and intellectual height of Mr. Balsairo's speech, I can hardly say it. I don't know if the sector will prove anecdotic that you come to say that question. I think, logically, everyone knows it's a transcription error. But the bottom line is that you have no intention of solving the problem. That's the reality and the sad thing about it, Mr. Balsairo. If you come here to Parliament to do the ridiculous thing, I don't know whether it's on your own initiative, or because those who write the speeches saw that there was a mistake in the initiative, and then he said, "Let's do a little bit of the paripé in the plenary." The truth is that I have a deep feeling of sadness that you come here, when there are a lot of people out there who are going through it very badly, Mr. Balsairo, making a ridiculously important issue for the sector. And logically I have to say that I'm very sad today, because you could come here to give the sector some positive message. The lady didn't do it as counsellor in the past full, you didn't do it today, the lady didn't do it as advisor last Thursday when she met with the sector itself. Why do you know what the sector said when you left that meeting? What you see by the Administration is that you don't want to deal with the situation and look for some kind of solution to the problem. And that's the question I really care about, not that I make a mistake in transcribing an initiative. Because I am here to defend the interests of Galicia, of the Greeks and, in this case, of the fleet of the Greek siege. I don't know if you can say the same thing, Mr. Balsairo, I don't know if you can say the same thing. I think the question is quite clear. The fleet of the siege in Galicia has been serving two years with a division that is condemning it to total ruin. And you, unfortunately, are still at the same point of departure, defending a division which, for the most part, you go out here and the counselor to say that it is beneficial for our fleet, it is generating tremendous inequalities, not only within the own fleet of Greece but with other communities, where a Basque boat, for example, Mr. Balsairo – you must know this – has downloaded 40,000 kilos of jure in the port of Coruña, totally legal, when our ships have the fishing closed. They're fishing for the boats of other communities in our waters the fish our ships can't fish. And I don't know if this seems reasonable to you, I don't know, and that's why we bring this initiative. And we'll bring her back until you really face the problem. I would therefore like, logically, to thank the groups who are going to vote for this initiative. And as for the amendment of the Joint Group's female voicer, I want to tell you that we can't accept it, not because we don't share the substance, but logically because this is a matter that has been claiming the sector itself, and we bring it to the House because it's a complaint that has been doing the sector for two years, and we believe it should be time for the People's Party government and Mr. Balsairo to realize once there's a real problem out there. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u271	Thank you, Mr. Val. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to fulfil the commitments acquired in relation to the traditional nuclei affected by the Law of Costs without regularizing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u272	This motion was presented with an amendment by the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u273	You have the word, Mr. Bugallo, to formulate your motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u274	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We bring here today a subject that has come on different occasions, came as a non-law proposition, came as an interpellation to the Counsellor's Lady and returns today as a motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The question that concerns us is the consequence of the application of the so-called Back Law, Law 2/2013, which entered into force on 31 May of that year, which amended the Back Law of 1988 and established the possibility, through a transitional provision, that coastal rural nuclei could accommodate the transitional provision of the 1988 law whenever they met a number of requirements, essentially two: to demonstrate a degree of urban consolidation and to demonstrate the existence of basic public services. During the processing of the law in the State Parliament there were different discussions, and in this Parliament itself there were different initiatives. This Parliament has even unanimously adopted the agreement to propose some changes in the text of the law to the State Parliament and we shall appear representatives of the parliamentary groups of this Parliament before the Congress of Members to defend our proposals. The fact is that the majority of the People's Party in Congress and the Senate imposed law on the terms in which they imposed it. We said here in his day that, from our point of view, the wording given to him was neither designed to solve the problems of traditional nuclei – that was not his goal but that they were very different – nor provided a real solution. The truth is, from the adoption of the law and its publication on May 30, 2013, different voices of the People's Party were dedicated to defending and spreading throughout Galicia the good news that this problem was solved or would be solved immediately. I would like to highlight in this publicity work to Senator Enrique López Veiga, who shone in his own light talking about the effort of the Union and the State to regularize the 8,000 nuclei and the 8,000 dwellings that were to be settled immediately. I must also point out the propaganda work of that then Territorial Policy Counsellor, Mr. Augustine Hernández, who also insisted on the same line repeatedly, and there are the hemerothetics full of statements. And, of course, I can't help but forget the general secretary of Urbanism, who also concreteized all aspects: 58 municipalities benefited, 255 nuclei that would be recognized, 8,000 legalized homes immediately and 12,500 in the medium term. The fact is that this legislative amendment gave a period of twenty-four months from May 31st so that the municipalities could accommodate this transitional provision and could request legal recognition of these cores. After twenty-seven months and finished in June the deadline for the city halls to be able to accommodate, we have to take stock of what happened. The Secretary General said that in the province of Coruña a total of 29 municipalities could be accommodated, that in the province of Pontevedra a total of 23 could be accommodated and that in the province of Lugo a total of 6 municipalities; with 255 nuclei, the most benefited province, with 126 nuclei, would be the province of Pontevedra. The fact is that today in the province of Coruña only 21 municipalities filed the application for legalization, instead of the 29 they were talking about. There's 8 people who haven't presented it. Of the 21, 18 are solved and 3 are pending resolution. In Pontevedra, 21 municipalities, 16 have already been resolved, and 5 resolution pending. And in Lugo they presented five municipalities of the 6 planned; 2 already resolved and 3 pending resolutions. So we have 11 municipalities that haven't presented it, 11 municipalities that are pending resolution and 36 that already have their resolutions. What happened to them? For in the province of Coruña, of 18 municipalities and 96 applications, 16 municipalities did not see a single accepted request; in total, 5 nuclei of the 96 requested. In Pontevedra, out of the 16 municipalities that asked for it, 11 saw all their applications denied and only 5 saw nine nuclei accepted, of a total of 79. I mean, the only municipality in Galicia that saw all their accepted applications was Marín: 4 applications, 4 accepted. And in Lugo, no council or any accepted request. The final balance indicates that there were 177 resolved applications, 14 accepted, 163, or 92% denied. And the balance over the last twenty-seven months is that of the 255 promised nuclei, only 14 are regularized, that is, only 5%. From that point on, the conclusions we have to draw, ladies and gentlemen, are very simple. What's going on here? Is it the city hall's fault? We don't think so. The political commitment was from the People's Party, the Unity of Galicia and the Government of the State. The municipalities did everything they could, many of them, to get regularization of their cores. And 92% of the cases resolved were dismissed. There are 11 municipalities that haven't presented it. I'm not going to rule out the responsibility you might have, but the question I ask myself is, where have you been looking at Galicia's board? Have you been advising those municipalities? Have you been talking to them? Have you been in contact with Coast demarcation to try to find a reasonable solution to these issues? Ladies and gentlemen, our conclusion is that you've been looking somewhere else and you've been something else. I mean, the washing machine was sold and right after the municipal elections in 2011 no one cared if the washing machine worked or it didn't work or whether there was electricity for it to work or not. The fact is that the transitional provision that was adopted in Madrid, rather than including, as proposed in this Parliament, whether the councils had to believe the level of consolidation or the existence of basic services, changed that "o" by a "y", and it turned out that they had to believe the consolidation and also the existence of those basic services. And it's obvious that many rural nuclei of Galicia in 1988 – because they went back to meeting the conditions in 1988 – did not have basic services, especially water and sanitation. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, many municipalities have serious difficulties in justifying compliance with the consolidation requirement with the effects of the year 1988 because they have no urban plan today and much less they were twenty-seven years old; and therefore they did not have any mappings adapted to reality and on top they saw themselves in this situation. Therefore, the result that is produced is a disastrous result. What we bring here today is that the Council assumes its responsibility as urban guardianship, but also as urban counseling and support for the municipalities and these citizens of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u275	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u276	Because we're talking about tens of thousands of citizens. It's not enough to blame the Ministry; by the way, managed by the same political party which has the majority in this House and which governs much of these municipalities. And, ladies and gentlemen, if I have to tell you about the last evil of this matter, would you know what it would be like? It was necessary to ask why 80% of the refusals were notified as of 25 May 2015. I mean, the applications are from 2013, most of them, and some of them from 2014; but randomly the resolutions are mostly from May 25 to July 25, 2015. What excess activity that month!, or what justification is it that these resolutions were retained just until the next day of the 2015 municipal elections? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u277	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u278	I hope to gain the support of all groups. [[Applause]] Intervention of the groups. For the Popular Group, Mr. Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u279	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Mr Bugallo, I would like to think that you are presenting this motion in the spirit of reaching a broad consensus, I am convinced that it is so; a consensus that gives continuity to the collaboration that has so far been maintained by the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council with the councils that have so demanded from you in this matter. Otherwise, it is necessary to underline that the Socialist Group is late in presenting this motion. Because the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council has from the outset offered its utmost willingness to collaborate with all the municipalities that so requested. And I have to tell you, Mr. Bugallo, that many may have been more interested in this subject than they were finally interested in. Despite the fact that autonomous communities have no competence in handling the files, the Council collaborated and helped by providing technical support to the municipalities that requested it. And your purpose is to continue to cooperate with all the Greek municipalities who so request. To this end, Mr Bugallo, responds to various meetings held with officials from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and the Directorate-General for Coastal Affairs itself. Among them are the most recent ones celebrated this same month, specifically on 1 and 18 of this September. Meetings where the German Government has shifted their concern about the regularization process and its maximum willingness to collaborate with the municipalities concerned. Similarly, last week the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council sent a letter to all the coastal municipalities in Galicia that are pending to regularize cores, providing them with support and technical advice to move forward in this process. Galicia, Mr Bugallo, was also the first autonomous community in which the editors themselves of the amendment of the Law of Back exposed the criteria of its application, and the fact is that the impact of the amendment of the Law of Back in Galicia was addressed in a technical day on 9 July 2013 – two years have already gone there since this exhibition in the City of Culture in Santiago de Compostela –. More than four hundred technicians participated in this day and was mainly directed to coastal, organisms and professionals councils who wanted to know first-hand the guidelines for the application of the amendment of the Law of Back which entered into force on 31 May 2013. This activity would be directed to three fundamental axes: one based on the public domain of the sea-terrestrial, one based on the public domain protection service and one third based on the modification of the third transitional provision of the Law 22/1988. He counted, among the speakers and speakers, with the participation of the Director-General for Sustainability of the Coast and the Sea, Pablo Saavedra Inaraja, current Secretary of State for the Environment, and also with the Deputy Director-General for Maritime-Terrestrial Public Domain, Raquel Orts Nebot, who presented to all the attendees the issues relating to the main news that introduces the amendment of the law. You know that recently the advisor, through an interpellation, and the secretary-general of Territorial Order himself, in an oral question put in committee by you, have been given completed information – even in writing – on this matter, where they reported which were the municipalities and the affected nuclei, admitted and rejected. So, Mr Bugallo, we are proposing to Parliament – and I hope you can accept this amendment – the following position: that Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to continue the work initiated by the Environment Council, Territory and Partnership Infrastructure with the Greek Town Councils to move forward in recognition by the Map of its traditional coastal cores and then to provide technical advice and maintain meetings with all those municipalities that so request, bearing in mind, as you well said, that this is the most expensive peninsula region, with 1,400 kilometers, and also a community in which more than half of the population nuclei from all over Spain are concentrated, 30,000 nuclei that constitute our characteristic model of population settlement. In the spirit of reaching agreement and the admission of this amendment, I am finishing my intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u280	Thank you, Mr. Freire. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u281	Last July 1 was completed the two years provided for in the first transitional provision of Law 2/2013 so that the municipalities could insist that the scheme provided for in the third transitional provision of that Act would apply to the nuclei or areas which were not classified as urban soil but which met the requirements of the first transitional provision. On the passage of this law, that Mr. Environment and Territory Counsellor, Agustín Hernández, declared in the Parliament of Galicia: "Thousands of Greeks on our coast will benefit from the application of this law," or "the modification of the Law on the Back comes to cover the traditional coastal nuclei prior to the law of 88 as elements of identity of our coast." But, as always, one thing is the propaganda of the People's Party and another the reality. In Galicia, a total of 88 municipalities – 34 in general and 24 in approved PXOU – with a total of 255 decommissioned nuclei, with 4,500 dwellings, requested within the time limit set for this strip of cost protection from 100 meters to 20 meters. Some municipalities had already recognized this 20-metre protection strip from the sea, as happened for example to the traditional center of Combarro. And only cases counted as the villages of Marín, Mogor, Baiona, Nigrán, Otes, Ribadeo and Artexo have the solved situation. On the contrary, many municipalities are receiving negative requests from Costas, as is the case with Vilaboa. This council, in addition to lack of PXOU, did not meet the requirements regarding its degree of consolidation or existence of public services when the law of 88 was passed. In 2013, the then Environmental Adviser said, "We're going to collaborate actively with the Vilaboa Council because we think that the law, with the final text, is still a very important tool in order to be able to regulate most of Vilaboa's housing and solve many of the problems that exist in this municipality. We're going to be in collaboration with the Vilaboa Council so that these citizens can benefit as well." What was the work done with the Vilaboa Town Hall? Why has it been argued two years ago that the amendment of the Law of Back would be a very important tool in order to be able to regularize Vilaboa's housing if these traditional nuclei did not meet the demands of reform to be able to regularize themselves, since they didn't meet them in 2013 or now? A situation that leaves hundreds of houses in the nucleus of Larache, Paredes, San Adrián and Santa Cristina in an alleged limbo. It is given the condition that there are dwellings with order of demolition, with the consequent uncertainty of the affected owners. On the Grove, 12 coastal nuclei; on the island of Arousa, 5; and on Vilanova other 5, Costas refused the requests. In Sanxenxo, 8 nuclei; in Poio, 1; in Cangas, 9; Walls, 5; Ribeira, 3; Boiro, 29; The Poor, 7; Malpica, 3; Ponticeso, 1; Neda, 2; Valdovino, 4; O Vicedo, 3; and Jupiter, 3, are waiting for response. And according to the People's Party, guilt is the lack of interest of the municipalities. In many of these Costas processes, it required additional documentation to believe that they comply with the demands, demands of a law from which the then adviser stated in 2013: "We understand that this bill gives you, for the first time, an answer to a historic claim by the Galician community, which is the recognition of the traditional coastal cores prior to the law of 88, as an element of identity of our coastline," and which took into account our reality of the coastal cores. We're again facing the popular party's propaganda. The reality is that coastal nuclei continue without solving their problem, traditional coastal nuclei. The reality is that very few requests have been accepted. The reality is that most of the requests are rejected or rejected, as happened on Grove, on the island of Arousa or Vilanova, or are still waiting for the answer, as in the rest of the municipalities I have named. So we're going to support this motion, as it can't be otherwise, and we regret that the People's Party will once again stick to the recognition of our traditional cores. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u282	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u283	Very good night. Today we are debating a motion from the Socialist Group which I would call a motion that is kind or polite, because what the PSdEG is asking us today is that Parliament urges the Government of Greece to urgently meet with the mayors in the municipalities where there are traditional nuclei affected by the law of back and without regularizing, and to say the priority they have to have these meetings. I, in fact, was very surprised when I saw the amendment of the People's Group, because to me it already seemed to me that it was a very courteous initiative. But I see that the PP doesn't seem polite enough, because it has to make it "continue with its work...", it just failed to say: ingenuity, untiring, unmeasurable... well, these kinds of amendments that the People's Party has already used to. And the truth of all this creates a certain dilemma for us. And I'm going to explain, because to us, indeed, this initiative, if we were at the beginning of a process, it would seem to us that it makes all the sense. Now, when we're already 15 years after this problem had appeared in a very serious way in our country, of course, this seems insufficient, even if we're not going to oppose it. I also have to say today that I was very surprised because the Board also replies to Mr. Bugallo himself and rarely tells him that he has sent a letter to all the municipalities. I think everyone is very calm because the advisor sends letters. It's a way, of course, of dealing with a serious problem that affects many homes in our country, which is a problem where the People's Party also has a very important responsibility. And I'm going to say why: because an ex-counsel who is a senator, when the Law of Back was processed, he gave many press rounds in this country saying that the problem of the nuclei of the coast was solved on the basis of an amendment that he presented in the Senate, and that therefore everyone had to be calm. These were the statements made by the People's Party in the midst of the amendment of the Back Law, a Back Law that we have already said was only useful to unprotect the coast, to consolidate contaminant companies like Ence and that for nothing would be the solution to the problem of the coastal cores. Because here we're faced with a situation that demonstrates how that kind of policy that wants to legislate as if all of us were equal actually create a lot of problems. Galicia has a way of settling down on the coast which has nothing to do with the rest of the state. We're a nation, we have that particularity, but Costas doesn't want to accept it and apply to us a law that has nothing to do with the reality of Galicia and which causes many problems in our country. Because we're talking about the legalization of traditional nuclei, we're not talking about legalizing everything that has been done wrong with the conviviality in many cases also of the People's Party governments that have allowed problems and actions that now turn against people, because they have not respected legality. But I want to point out that, because it's very important to us: when we're talking about the problem of the coast, we're talking about solving the problem of traditional nuclei. And what is aberrant is to see how there are traditional nuclei that are not legalized while urbanizations that were done in the middle of all that real estate boom on the coast have no problems. And that's the tangible demonstration of how Galicia has to exercise its powers in this matter. And this is what you've come to defend the BNG in recent years and this is what the People's Party has always defeated in legislation. We proposed a law, a amendment to the Law of Back, which collected what was already in this country's housing law to solve this problem, and the PP voted against; an amendment that was really going to solve the problem of traditional nuclei. But the PP preferred to sell the lie that with that partial amendment the state would solve the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u285	...and we see the situation is not solved. If the Socialist Group accepts the amendment to the PP, I say that we will no longer vote in favour of that text. In any case, we say that, since we have initiatives presented that are about the need for us to exercise the competences that our country has in this matter – because soil classification is not a Costas competition, it is a competition of the Galician Union that is not defending –...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u287	...then, of course, we're going to work to find that solution that gives a quiet horizon to many people. Because on this subject, we're talking about a lot of people who are affected by their own homes, we're not talking about demos or large urbanizations, but about a very serious problem in our country that we can't turn our backs on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u288	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u289	I think I'll be brief. In the debate of the Law on the back we already said that it seemed to us an aberration that this sort of thing was managed and decided from Madrid. It doesn't make sense that Galicia doesn't have the full powers to decide urbanistically on its coast, when it has very different characteristics from those of the Mediterranean and those of southern Spain in the type of settlements that historically existed. Well, we say this is a very complex subject, on the other hand. We're not talking only about traditional nuclei, not all those who ask are traditional nuclei, not all of us, not all of us will be able to comply with this law. The worst thing that happened is that the People's Party is true that it has torturedly used the approval of the Back Law saying that this would be the solution for all. It was a lie, and I knew, I knew it was a lie that would serve everyone. It doesn't work for everyone. And we would like to see that in such a complex problem in this country there was rigour, that there was moral authority in order to be able to impose a rational legality, so that we could avoid the ruins on the coast and be able to ensure that traditional nuclei can have a regularized situation. But, of course, with those arguments, when we see that instead of the Law of Back it does allow the Ence to have an extension of 75 years, then we enter the moral dilemma. Because it seems that legislation only meets those below, with normal people who have a house, and not with large businesses like Ence. We believe that, of course, the Council of Galicia should be involved in doing what it can and that, at least, by the resources provided by the Council of Galicia, by the help provided by the Council of Galicia, there is no nucleus that deserves to be regularized outside of regularization. But what remains clear today is the work of propaganda and falsification that the People's Party did when it passed the law, when it said that this was going to be the solution for everyone, when it did populism – that's what it is to make populism – with the approval of the Law on the back when it knew it wasn't going to be true. So we will also support this initiative, which only calls for the Board to meet with the mayors of the municipalities who called for regularization. And we also say that if you accept – that I don't believe, because I have Mr Bugallo for a smart man – the amendment of the People's Party, we won't vote in favour either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Bugallo has the floor for the parliamentary group responsible for the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u291	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very quickly, firstly, I would like to thank the positive vote of the groups that share the opposition scene with us; and secondly, try to answer Mr Santiago Freire Abeijón. Let's see, the important thing, when twenty-seven months have passed since the entry into force of the law, are not the words or the intentions expressed, the important thing is the results achieved. And the results achieved, the facts tell us that, once the application deadline is closed, there are 177 resolved and 163 denied applications. They tell us that of the 36 municipalities of which the applications were resolved, 29 were not approved nor the declaration of a single rural nucleus – some, by the way, so well known by Mr. Freire Abeijón, as it may be Palmeira, in the municipality of Ribeira, which results in him so close and that I find that he knows perfectly well; for Palmeira is not recognized as the nucleus though we all pass there thousands of times. And like that, another bunch of nuclei. I mean, of 255 that you talked about, only 14. Is it enough for the Council to keep doing what you're doing? No, because if you keep doing what you're doing, we're clear that 95% of the nuclei are already solved and they're already out. We don't know what's going to happen with the rest, but we're very afraid that the ratio will be the same. And with the 11 municipalities that didn't ask, what are we going to do with them, what are we going to give them? We understand that the Galician Union has to assume this problem as a problem of the whole of the Autonomous Community, it has to land on this problem and not sending a letter last week, it seems to us not enough solution. We ask him to meet with the council, starting with those who saw his rejected request, because there will be something to do. We're in time, you can appeal. Is there anything you can do with those 163 nuclei? For even those who have been accepted, for example, we have 21 rejected and 2 approved in Nigeria. I don't know if the Nigerians will be happy with everything with that solution. Tell me one of Nigrán, who lives in Nigrán, who doesn't think so. I don't think so, too. So, ladies, it's not enough to keep doing what you've done, because what you've brought them to where we are, and that's where we want to get out. That's why we keep our proposal and we have to reject the amendment tabled by the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u293	We proceeded to the vote on the motions, and we started with the vote on the first motions of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz, to which no amendments were tabled. G.P. Motion vote. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the social considerations collected in the memory of the Economic and Social Council of Galicia of 2014. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u294	We voted for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Mr. Val Alonso, who said... Yes, Mr. Val, what do you want the floor for? [[Requests the word Mr. Val Alonso]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u295	To make a point. I want to make it clear that in the resolution, where it says, "...in the XIa zone" it has to be "IXa." And I'm saying this because the People's Party has expressed its intention in favour of the initiative to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u296	Mr. Val, we understand, thank you. You don't have the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've already left, but I've already said so. It's just that Mr. Val has already acknowledged the error in the replica, and now he's back tinted it, and it's already shaded perfectly. We then voted on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which said that it did not accept the amendment of the Joint Group. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Ramón Val Alonso, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the fishing of the boar, the reopening of the fishing of the jurel in zone VIIIc and the establishment of a new model for distribution of quotas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u297	Finally, we are voting on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez Bugallo, who does not accept the amendment tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to fulfil the commitments acquired in relation to the traditional nuclei affected by the Law of coasts without regularizing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. This initiative is therefore adopted unanimously. Institutional declaration on the defence of the night sky
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u298	The groups made me come up with an institutional statement, which, if it seems to them, I'm going to read, in defense of the night sky. "The Galician Parliament assumes in its integrity the statement on the defence of the night sky and the right to light of stars in the Declaration of La Palma 2007, and explicitly collects some of its fundamental ideas: First. The right to an uncontaminated night sky to enjoy the contemplation of the sky must be considered an inalienable right of humanity equal to the rest of environmental, social and cultural rights. Second. The dissemination of astronomy and associated scientific and cultural values should be considered as basic content to deal with in educational activity. Third. It is essential to control light pollution throughout the territory of Galicia, given the impact it has on many species, habitats, ecosystems and landscapes. The rational use of artificial lighting should be promoted and demanded to minimize the brightness that causes in the sky and to avoid harmful intrusion of light on humans and the natural environment. Fourth. Places that present exceptional conditions for contemplation of the sky, and in particular those most fit for scientific observation, will be the subject of special protection. Finally, responsible and sustainable tourism should be promoted, which makes the nightscape a resource to protect and enhance. Santiago de Compostela, September 29, 2015."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u299	We continue with the development of the agenda, only ahead of time that we will proceed with a non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the naval sector of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u300	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u301	You have the floor to Mrs. Adam to make her proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u302	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. From the seats I hear it's short. We'll all try. We are not going to do this, we are going to assume that this is the last initiative that we will be discussing at this time, that we are all really fresh, fresh, we have a very clear mind after ten hours of debate in this plenary session. So I'm going to start with one of the latest aphorisms, which has recently become famous and will pass on to all those dating books that any good Member, good Member, will manage in the future: a dish is a dish and a glass is a glass. So one data is still a data today. And I'm going to start with some data from Ferrol County, which I find so often repeated that they are interesting to illustrate not the night sky, but the debate on this initiative. On the one hand, we'll start with a population data. If the population drop in Galicia is worrisome, and from 2009 to 2014 it's about 2%, just in Ferrol it's 5.2%. But if we go back to 1998-2014, for taking a period that is not very large but interesting, it almost reaches 15% of population loss. In the labour market, we also find data that tells us that a data is still a data, and if it's from the IGE, I suppose the People's Party will assume it. The decline in social security membership in Galicia from 2009 to 2015 is more than 10%, almost 11%, but in Ferrol is 18%. But if we're going to see the number of companies, also a very negative data for Galicia and the Welsh industry, we've found that the loss of companies from 2009 to 2014, is 8,777, i.e. 4.2% about the total volume of companies that existed in 2009. In the county of Ferrol, this is 7.3%, and in the city, 12.6%. We can add another data to illustrate how the decline in average income of families, which in Ferrol is the highest in all the cities of Greece, a drop of 16.5% of their income in recent years. But we can ask ourselves a question, taking that famous Magritte painting, which surely those of the philosophy classes we use often in class, remember, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a pipe, we can ask ourselves if sometimes the data are not such data. And if we find statements of the type – I got some so that we can frame the debate too – "Montoro tells BNG that the floating dike is not discarded in Ferrol, and that there is guaranteed workload"; "Joint's commitment to support the floating dike in Ferrol. The Board is committed to financing the floating dike of Navantia." And going back, "Javier Guerra makes sure the board supports the construction of the floating dam in Ferrol." This debate was subsequently closed with: "P-P- Senators vote against the floating dam". Which shows that not always a headline is a reality. But also, if we consider that we've already talked a lot about the floating dam, see, for example, such statements as, "Done hopes that from January all sorts of ships are built in Ferrol." This was in September 2014, exactly a year ago. Recently, a new publisher speaks in these terms: "The occupation has been reduced by 60% in the last year in the auxiliary of Navantia." Extracted news from a German newspaper, which, by collecting the data published by Navantia, we can see how the assistants effectively reduced their occupation by 66% in Ferrol. Which is to deny that there is such a burden of occupation. That's why we presented, after the debate in the previous plenary on the marine windmill and its supposed workload for Ferrol, this initiative. The initiative from which voices and voices from this gallery will surely be aware that it is simply the manifesto that was read in Ferrol in May promoted by the workers and workers of the naval sector regarding the naval situation. And the resolution that will subsequently be voted on in this House is exactly the three points that, after reading this manifesto, claimed to the Government of Greece, and that I think it would also be good that all and all were aware of which are the demands of the workers themselves: The immediate launch of the F-110 project, the construction of a floating dam to consolidate the future of repairs as well as the workload in the civil sector. It says floating, remember, the one who doesn't exist, which shows that not always a dish is a dish or a glass is a glass. Second. Compliance with the minimum agreements signed for the auxiliary industry. Because we demand work, but we demand work in conditions worthy of the 21st century. We cannot accept the working conditions of the 19th century, as we have been complaining for months in this Parliament about contracts signed in auxiliary companies, both in Ferrol and in Vigo. And finally, we also demand the design of an industrial plan that ensures and strengthens the company in the long term, in which it is essential to incorporate young people without this at any time a reduction in employment. I mean, not a plan for a template adjustment, but a real industrial plan. For if the People's Party today wants to remember the theme of the fleets and Pemex and also of all the headlines that we've been accustomed to in this regard, the manifesto of what this initiative is was quite rightly gathering some of those promises about the staging that had been made on September 19, 2012 – i.e. three years ago – about what the signature with Pemex meant: 14 tugs, 2 chemists, 5 gas tankers. And right now what exists is 2 fleets. So, from the promised workload, exactly what was achieved was 30%. So we have been absolutely obliged to give voice to these workers and workers and to their demands and bring this initiative today, which simply collects what has been read publicly and what is being demanded in Ferrol and his district and throughout Galicia. Because the question of the naval sector, the question of the situation in Navantia, perfectly exemplifies what the policies of the People's Party, which are policy holders, and where the holder is different in Galicia than later in Madrid. Because I also have here all the amendments tabled since 2013 to state budgets until 2016, this year, just this year, where the People's Party forgets in the budgets in Madrid to include games to improve the naval sector and adapt to the market in Ferrol, where it forgets the auxiliary industry and where the floating dike disappears. So from the BNG we have also tabled these amendments to the budgets, because for us it's a matter of country, it's a question of country that can make ships, that can make ships, that there can be naval construction in Ferrol in the public sector. Not only is he coming to this House hiding. We used to talk about the floating dike, and now since the People's Party, we're talking about the marine wind, when we know that this is just a workshop, it's not really the construction that Ferrol needs and his district. That's why we bring a new initiative on the naval sector, and this time, exactly, giving voice to the demands of workers and workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u303	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u304	They're still waiting for the People's Party and the German Government to take care of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u306	Thank you, President. Well, we have been dealing again with a recurring issue in this Parliament in the last thirty years to close today's session by talking about the naval. After thirty years of argumentation, it is unnecessary to continue arguing and defining what our position is. In the Journal of Sessions are collected, and on the walls built by the political decisions made by most who support this Government, in the voices, in the paintings and countless marches that remind them of the failure of their policies. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that your strategy of leading the society of Ferrolterra and Galicia to exhaustion is doomed to failure. They do not listen to citizenship to claim as the main factor for the economy of Fene and the whole region the recovery of economic activity in the yard installations, which returns to the shipbuilding and which can be used by remaining under public ownership for industrial diversification around pushing sectors such as wind, off-shore industry or specialized machinery. I'm not a joke about the mobilizations for the agricultural sector and the culture of public health in Vigo in recent days. They say loudly that the Government and the People's Party maintain positions facing the needs of the people and the interests of the productive sectors of our country. Citizenship has long been aware that it is impossible for Members and Members who support this Government to be able to pay attention to what can be transmitted to them and to take initiatives aimed at placing our productive sectors in their proper position. I will therefore repeat the arguments already put forward in previous speeches in this House. And I do it with the will to get you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to draw some conclusion from what you've been saying to them since the last century. Ferrolaterra needs a dam that puts a stop to so much despair that there is hidden behind the word "useless." He needs that infrastructure to be able to work with large ships that exceed 400,000 tons. And he also needs to defend other goals for the future, such as improving the infrastructures of the outer port and the integral sanitation of the river. It is enough that they fulfil the commitments adopted in their parliaments in Madrid and Compost it in recent years; that they fulfil the President of the Union's contract with Ferrol as stated in 2009. They abandon the strategy of propaganda that affects the citizenship of Ferrol the different governments at different levels. They lie, actually the People's Party has never had any interest in whether Navantia-Ferrol can materialize a strategy for the future from a tool that guarantees you work in the present, the floating saying. The politics of the naval in the district of Ferrol is the result of a planning that had its origins in the conversion of the 1980s. Three decades of industrial dismantling have led a city of 100,000 inhabitants to less than 70,000 and half its population to over 50 years. Do you need to remind them that in the municipalities, Parliament, Spanish Parliament and even in this Parliament many resolutions have been unanimously adopted to support the lifting of the veto on civil construction and on behalf of the floating dam? The county of Ferrol needs a future project, a real commitment by the Government of Greece to the future of the naval sector, but this government seems unable to commit itself. It is therefore not political-electoral strategy parameters that must prevail in this situation of extreme economic-social emergency that drags thousands of neighbors and neighbours to the hands of misery and their children and children to emigration. It is not, however, necessary at this stage, after forty years of conversion, the debate on the political decisions that have been taken which we must deal with. It's time to encourage and support projects. That is why we are presenting this amendment of addition which urges the Board to initiate the complaint process to SEPI of the ownership of Navantia-Fene installations pursuant to Article 4 of Law 5/2010 of 23 June, of promotion of the Galician naval sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u307	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u308	Since it doesn't make any sense that if Fene is engaged in civil construction, she's under the mandate of the Ministry of Defence. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u309	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u310	Mrs. Adam, this is supposed to be a "frontal mode" again. Again we bring an initiative, this week something similar has been discussed in the Committee on Industry itself, and it is as if we have brought in every fifteen days of this legislation whatever it is, because the People's Party is going to vote against because the report is that there is a load of work in the shipbuilding sector in Ferrol. And besides the story is that for anyone who walks through the streets of Ferrol things don't just go well, they're insurmountably fine. True and true is that, of course, it is the story of a drama, of a drama in which – as we said in the Commission – right now even if the king is naked, completely naked. There's no excuse of any kind, Mr. Almunia is no longer here, there's nothing that prevents us from making ships on the steps of the Navantia-Fene shipyards. But it doesn't matter, the truth and the truth is that right now the strategy of the People's Party is also about doing business. And it goes by doing business on a magnificent yard – with certain delays certainly, but magnificent – that the People's Party will put at just the right disposal of its interests at zero price; at zero price because, as much as I repeat here, Mr. Tellado with no supporting document, as you know, the development of those jacks that are now being practised in Navantia-Fene are actually incompatible with the development of the naval sector. But not only that, do we insist – to see if they hear them, it must be for the shame that they feel – that the business committees, after more than two years, remain unwelcome by the President of the Galician Council. We're sure you probably don't receive them because it's so much good news that President Feijóo has to give you that just because he has nothing to tell you. But that's not all. There's a dramatic situation in the management of the Galician Union. So dramatic is how we just saw four oil tankers going to be practically completely executed in the bay of Cadiz, in Puerto Real, and here nothing happens. It is thanks to this enormous political weight that Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo has and above all to the great concern that Mr. Feijóo has for the naval sector. But not only that, but also, Mrs. Adán, will you remember when Mr. Tellado went to Navantia's premises in Madrid with a small sign and sang there defending the resignation of those leaders; that resignation which was appointed by the members of the People's Party, and which remain without resignation despite the catastrophe in which we are immersed. Not only that, is that we are – as the initiative calls for – without an industrial plan, that this is the key to the matter. To clarify what we are going to do in Navantia-Fene we need an industrial plan and then clearly define the uses. It is because – as is evident – the People's Party refuses to do even though the works councils are asking for it. And there are quite obvious things that call for initiative, asks for industrial plans, but asks for something fundamental that you will know first-hand. And it's just that the Fene yard has 300 workers and, 300, 264 have an average of 60 years. I suppose we'll agree that it will be necessary and essential to renew that template, it's not crazy. And not only that, is that the initiative focuses on or demands a central issue that is justly fulfilling the agreements and commitments reached under the conditions of the auxiliary industry, for obvious reasons. Because whoever lives in the city or in the district of Ferrolterra knows, that these pushes down in favor of Florentine Pérez who makes the People's Party and then goes to dinner with him Mr. Feijóo to Ferrol, with Mr. Rajoy and others, actually have consequences on the back of the workers of those auxiliary industries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u311	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u312	...that, as we all know, they are in condition, indeed, of the 19th century. So, Mrs Adam, you don't have to tell him that we are going to vote in favour of all the points in the initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Group. Mrs. Sestayo Doce.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u314	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a ship is a ship. Because the truth is they were going to make ships in Fene and for now, unless the People's Party still doesn't know what a boat is, because there's no keel on the Fene shipyards. Indeed, as Mrs Adan will know, without having to announce it from here, the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for all of these demands which are indeed not original, but absolutely necessary and essential. If your lords had accepted the visit you proposed on your day to the Industry Commission to visit Navantia, they could check what the reality of an enormously competitive shipyard with enormous potential and very little workload is. If they came to visit, to whom I cordially invite them, they would see as the direction of Navantia, certainly not suspected of being close to the opposition or the Socialist Parliamentary Group, they are told that there is an absolute empty workload, an absolute lack and necessity of workload, for the sustainability of the shipyards; and how, if the oil tankers and the Australians do not appear, those Australians who have their precedent – said on the Navantia slides – on the contracts signed on their day by the government of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero, the Navantia shipyards have no real possibility of workload. In fact, here we spoke of the fleet, of that fleet that ended up going; firstly, it was not fulfilled within the time frame announced by Mr Feijóo, as we had already announced sadly from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from all over the opposition; secondly, it was made only one of the blocks, others were to the south; and thirdly, it did not work for 3,000 people, but for 250 of the people who were already working on the staff. As a consequence, they continue, since President Rajoy's term of law, 4,200 fired at Navantia shipyards. The reality is that apart from these 4,200 redundancies from the shipyards in Navantia, there is no contract of naval importance reached by the commercial activity of Navantia, which is very intensive in relation to the staff. There is an enormous amount of Navantia budgets dedicated to management and commercial staff; however, there is no such thing as to achieve workload or for employees, who continue to reprobate, as has been said here, that President Feijóo does not have time in his schedule to receive the company committee or have time in his schedule to take care of the ship. President Feijóo is busy in other things, he's busy on the beach, he's busy in other multiple activities within his priorities, which are not exactly the naval. In addition, if you visit Navantia, there will be a lack of ships, there will be a need to boost both the construction sector and the repair sector, as will be the need to bet again on workloads as the LHD assumed. If you go to Navantia, you can check exactly what the rhythm was, the plot of construction and repair of the yards, and what the answer was in the last five years. And besides, if you go to Navantia and up top, in addition to the management staff, if you talk to the company committee, you'll see exactly each and every one of the jobs lost on the shipyards without anyone in the board of Galicia or the state government putting the naval on priority agenda. It is precisely necessary that industrial plan which was committed here, that floating dike is necessary than Mr Feijóo – I will not tire of saying it – was the guarantor for its construction. I don't know if it'll ever be guaranteed again in the electoral campaign and they'll be a priority again, each and every one of the priorities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u315	Please, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u316	... reached in this Parliament unanimously when an election campaign was approaching, these priorities that ceased to be a priority and ceased to be implemented the following day, and today I am also afraid that they will be voted against again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u317	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u318	We shall speak – and finish, Madam President – again to the argumentary of inheritance, with a People's Party destined without a doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u320	...to other different priorities of the naval. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u321	People's Group of Galicia. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u322	Thank you, Madam President. Good night, everyone. I ask you, Madam President, to check the state of the megaphony, because I could not hear any opposition group spokesman congratulate him on that news that Pemex today announced to order a new fleet for Barreras to have a workload before he finished this year. I suppose it's news that you're happy about. [[Applause]] The truth is, I couldn't hear anything in your speeches in that direction. I was talking, Mrs. Carmen Adán, about the situation in the county of Ferrolterra. This is the result of the ship conversions of the 1980s, of the Socialist Party, and also of the 2004s of the Socialist Party. You were also talking about the floating dike. Look, you know as much as I do who said you couldn't do the floating dam was the European Competition Commission, a socialist, which now covers Mrs. Yolanda Díaz – who once again speaks and leaves, as a evident proof of disrespect –. Mrs. Carmen Adán, it can't be a mistake, because it's not the first time they do it, the BNG initiative is again responding to the confusion strategy they intend to develop with respect to the naval sector. They're looking for a press headline. I hope it doesn't happen now to the BNG as it did to the AP-9 initiative, which sent a note intuitating a vote that then didn't happen. So be careful. I know you're looking for this, that the People's Party votes against an initiative to be able to say that the People's Party votes against the naval sector. I'm going to read to you literally what your initiative says: "Initiate the Greek Government to the immediate launch of the F-110 frigate project." Mrs. Adán, you know that the F-110 frigates don't depend on the Galician board, they depend on the Ministry of Defence, unless you want the Galician board to charge an F-110 frigate, I don't know if it's for the Coast Guard or the Autonomic Police. I, of course, believe your proposal makes it clear what is wrong. You urge the Galician Union to do something about what the Galician Union has no competence for us to have to vote against and to be able to say that the People's Party votes against the naval sector. But you're wrong, Mrs. Adam. The shipyards in the Ferrol River are dependent on Navantia, Navantia is dependent on Sepi and SEPI is dependent on the Ministry of Trade. Nothing has to do with the Council of Galicia with everything you propose in your initiative, which is simply wet paper. You speak of the frigate F-110. Look, you're talking about a frigate and you're asking for the project to be launched. I have to tell you that the F-110 frigate project is now under way, and it proves that there is a commission formed by the Navantia Ministry of Defence and technicians working on the definition of what the ship is going to be like. I'm telling you more: on July 31, 2015, the Council of Ministers approved a EUR 135 million match for the technological development of the F-110 frigate project. A project in which EUR 135 million will be invested for Navantia and Indra to develop the weapons, combat, telecommunications and electronic warfare programmes of the F-110 frigates; I+D+i for a ship that must meet the requirements of the 21st century, not only of the Spanish Navy, but of other international armies to which we can sell the ship. So I have to tell you that the F-110 frigate program is already underway, at the design stage, at the engineering stage, at the definition stage of the ship's technical and technological specifications, and that the project has budgets approved by the Council of Ministers on 31 July this year. You're talking about workload. Look, it's just that when the socialists were ruling they were zero contracts and today there are six contracts for the shipyards in the Ferrol River. The fleet of Pemex, which was a lie, and that's why Mrs. Díaz and Mrs. Sestayo were not able to go to the boat in the summer, which was a lie, 175 million euros, 1,150,000 hours of workload; engineering and LHD equipment for the Turkish Navy, 140 million euros of billing, 800,000 hours of workload; ship of maritime action; 29 sea windjackets, 5 macrostructures for the stateile branch and the four pros and machine blocks for Ondimar oil tankers. Where others left the misery, we put the burden of work. Mrs. Díaz, who isn't because she always leaves when we give her the reply, we have to tell her that you can't come here to claim the frigate F-110...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u323	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u324	...and your mayor proposes, before NATO representatives, the demilitarization of Ferrol. You can't do that. I was talking about the situation being dramatic. Dramatic is the role of United Left to appear of the Socialist Party because it owes it its backing to maintain the mayorship. She talks about Mr. Florentino, she talks familiarly. I, in truth, what I have to tell Mrs. Díaz – who is not – is that, like [...], of course it has no price. [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo, you were talking about the wages of the senior managers of Navantia. I have to tell you that Ferrol doesn't talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u325	Finish, please, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u326	...the salaries of the senior managers of Navantia, speak of the wages of other people. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] So we put a load of work where there were only vetoes and conversions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u327	Quiet, Mrs. Sestayo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u328	We put realities where others left poverty. And that's why you refuse contracts. We can say that our shipyards work today in the field of civil naval construction, in the field of military naval construction, and they also work in diversification, and the proof of that is the marine wind. So we have to tell him clearly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u329	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u330	We found Astano closed, with a productive veto that still ended nine months ago, and today Astano is working. We found some yards with a productive limitation of 20%, today they work in the three sectors. We found zero contracts and today there are six orders.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u332	Inadequate yet, but, of course, Mrs. Adán, the blame for this situation is for its natural partners, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Mr. Tellado, I ask you to remove the expression you have used in connection with Mrs. Díaz. I ask you to withdraw it, if not, I will remove it. I'm asking you to pull it out. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, he's retired. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor. Give him a voice, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. You have a voice now, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u334	Yes, thank you, President. I was waiting for Mr. Tellado to take a seat, because, really, after he heard his exhibition, I suppose he does it for those who are here. And those we're here, it's 9 o'clock at night, nobody cares, because... No, no, I mean, not for the workers and the workers, not for the people who live in Ferrol, because no one can believe it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell us exactly how many workers and how many workers are currently in the yards, which was the loss of work, which was really the work Pemex brought. [[Murmurs.]] Say it, Mr. Tellado, because one... No, no, tell me, Mr. Tellado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You come here always with the same roll and we read it... exactly, if you don't like the word "rollo", "with the same speech" - much more culture-, it's exactly the same speech. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you know perfectly well, because I said that this initiative is exactly the manifesto read in Ferrol in May about the status of the naval sector. [[Murmurs.]] Because those who know best about the naval are the unions themselves and the workers in that sector, so feeling it and still agreeing to the amendment that is tabled by the Joint Group, we cannot accept it, because we want to vote exactly what the workers themselves claim. If that frigate is already being built, because they vote in favour; if there is already an industrial plan and there is so much work to be done, they vote in favour; if auxiliary companies now have a 100% contract, this becomes a tatology, and they simply vote in favour. But if it's not the case, we're not going to move a coma, because it's literally copied from what was read in Ferrol and what people still demand. You here may tell us that we don't want burden of work or that the fault was the cha-cha-cha-cha. But really who rules in Madrid, who rules in Madrid two laws and who carries two laws ruling in Galicia? The People's Party. And what's the situation with Ferrol -- a region that's closing up, a region that currently has 60% fewer auxiliary companies, a region that, as I told you earlier, has currently 18% less companies and is in a free demographic fall. And you tell us it's the fault you don't know who. The fault, Mr. Tellado, you know very well who you are, and it's from the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-29-DSPG122.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. We'll stop the meeting until tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much and good night.
