ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u1	Good afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] I know it's the last plenary session, but I ask you to arrive when the bells ring and let us all be punctual. In fact, I did not start the plenary because I believe that there is an important start in what all Members have to be present, but I would ask you not to repeat this situation. [[Applause]] The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. You have justified Mrs Concepción Burgo's absence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda, but before we begin, and just as I think I have communicated to the various spokespersons, I would ask to keep a minute of silence in memory of the girls Candela and Amaia, because I think there are no words or gestures enough to express the infinite rejection that deserves a crime of that nature. [[All members of the House and other session assistants, standing up, keep a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. We started the development of the agenda with the first of the points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u2	Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u3	Article 73, as you know, states that the agenda for the plenary may be amended by agreement with the plenary, either by proposal from the President or by request of two parliamentary groups or by a fifth of the members of the House. In calling for this article, we would like to propose the abolition of the first three items on the agenda: the renewal of the People's Valedor, the renewal of the vacancies of the Board of Auditors and the renewal of the members of the Galician Radio and Television Board of Directors, because we radically disagree, both in the form and at the bottom, but we also understand that the renewal of the Galician Radio and Television Board of Directors takes place in terms that contravene the provisions of the law itself, so we request the withdrawal of these items from the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u4	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado asks for the floor.]] Mr. Beers, I suppose... Give a voice to Mr. Beiras's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u5	Yes, thank you very much. You suppose, I suppose, and I suppose you'll succeed. The BNG spokesman for the request of parliamentary groups has just read out. So we're adding ourselves to that request exactly in the same terms, for the same reasons, and I'm not going to repeat things already said in the Speakers' Board that prepared this plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. [[Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Churches? Give a voice to Mrs. Iglesias' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u7	Thank you, President. Also manifest the Joint Group's agreement with the demands of the BNG spokesman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u8	Well, thank you very much. In accordance with the request from three parliamentary groups, we proceed to the vote on the motion for the first three points of vote to be removed from the agenda. We voted for this request. Voting of the proposal for a modification of the agenda, at the request of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, G.P. Mixed and G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, consisting of the removal of the first three points of the order of the day of this session. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14 and against 58. The result of the vote is negative. This application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u9	We continue with the development of the agenda, as I said, with point one of the people's choice of the Valedor or Valedora. Election of the Valator or Valator of the People
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u10	The procedure for the election of Valador or Valador of the People was adopted by the Committee on Petitions at the meeting of June 30, 2015, with the proposal of candidate for the office of Valador of the People of Donna Miragros María Otero Parga. The election shall be made by ballots in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The candidate will be elected if she gets the majority of three fifths; i.e. 45 votes. The expression of the vote will be made as follows: votes in favour, inserting the ballot containing the candidate's name; blank votes, inserting the ballot in which no name is present; and we consider no votes, when it is made in paper in which names of other persons are entered, or containing scraps or signals. Two papers are being distributed. We will begin the vote when your lords have them. I ask the Vice-Presidents to take the ballot box for their collection. Do all Members and Members already have the papers? [[Assentment.]] The Secretary will make the call, in alphabetical order, for Members to put their vote in the ballot box. They will then make Members of the Government and finally the Members of the Bureau. So, if everyone and everyone has the papers, then we start the vote. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u11	If all Members and Members have exercised their right to vote, then we proceed to vote. [[Proceeding to scrutiny.]] [[Pause.]] When the vote was taken, the result was as follows: votes cast, 65; votes in favour of Da Miragros María Otero Parga, 53; votes blank, 5; votes null, 7. Reached the qualified majority required in article 2.3 of Law 6/1984, which is 45 votes, remains named Valadora do Pobo dona Miragros María Otero Parga. Election of candidates for the coverage of three vacancies of members of the Galician Board of Auditors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u12	We move on to the second point of the agenda. Initiated the procedure for the election of candidates or candidates for the three-vacation coverage of the Board of Auditors, and completed the application deadline, the Presidency, by Resolution of 31 July 2015, admitted the procedure of proposals submitted by parliamentary groups and decided to make a ballot with its name for the purpose of voting. The election shall be made by ballots in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The candidates will be elected or elected if they get the majority of three fifths; i.e. 45 votes. The vote shall be taken: votes in favour, by inserting the ballot containing the name of the two candidates marked with a cross; empty votes, by inserting the ballots in which no names are present; and null votes when no papers are used where scrapping or other signs are introduced other than those which serve to grant the vote to the candidates proposed. It will then proceed to the distribution of two papers, one with the names of the candidates proposed, and one with a blank one. [[Pause.]] I ask the Vice-Presidents to approach the ballot box. If you all have them, then we start the vote. Secretary, you can start calling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u13	If all Members have exercised their right to vote, we proceed to the vote. [[Proceeding to scrutiny.]] [[Pause.]] When the vote was taken, he gave the following result: votes cast, 65; votes in favour of Don Ana María Otero López, 52; votes in favour of Don José Antonio Redondo López, 52; votes in favour of Don María Begoña Villaverde Gómez, 54; votes blank, 4; votes null, 7. Consequently, after reaching the majority of three fifths, 45 votes, members of the Board of Auditors are elected to the Council of Auditors, Ms Ana María Otero López, Mr José Antonio Redondo López and Ms María Begoña Villaverde Gómez. Election of members of the Board of Directors of the Galician Radio Corporation, S.A.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u14	We continue with point 3. At its meeting of 14 July 2015, the Bureau of Parliament, hearing the Speaker's Board of Auditors, initiated the election of the six members of the Board of Directors of the Galician Radio Television Corporation, S.A., having regard to Article 2 of its regulatory rules, rules adopted by the Bureau Agreement of 5 March 2012 and published in Bulletin No. 654, issue 1, of 7 March 2012. The deadline for the submission of proposals for candidates and candidates, and subject to the appearances referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of the rules, at the extraordinary session of the Permanent Non-Lexislative Commission for the Control of the Company, of July 23, the Bureau drew up a closed list of the names of the six persons proposed and the parliamentary groups that proposed them, which is adjusted to the paper of their lordships. In accordance with Article 5 of the rules of election, the pre-voting debate shall consist of the intervention of each parliamentary group, in order to establish its position in relation to the application submitted, for a maximum of five minutes. After the proceedings have been closed, the vote will take place. According to Article 6 of the rules of conformity as laid down in Articles 91(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, it shall be secreted, by means of papers, by making the call in alphabetical order. The expression of the vote will be done the way we have already explained to the previous two votes by the vote in favour; the ballots in which more than six names appear will be considered null; blank, those in which no name is marked. They will be elected or elected candidates who obtain most of the two-thirds of the members of the House; that is, 50 votes. We therefore begin with the positioning of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u15	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you very much, President. John Fitzgerald Kennedy was the first U.S. politician to discover the power of television, and thanks to that he managed to defeat Nixon in the 1960 presidentials. No more! Since then, the power of the screen has been the protagonist in the election and object of desire by the political class. In 1984, Reagan exercised such media management that led him to be nicknamed "the great communicator". With powers of actor, though scarce, who made him win the elections thanks to the management of this medium of communication. The key to the influence of television lies in its massive scope, being the main source of public information, since radio and newspapers attract a much more minority audience. From there, it unleashes the greed of the parties for the political management and control – and also ideological – of this medium at all costs. The TVG highlighted during the last election campaign its servitude to the Government party: disproportionate attention to this party, bias in the treatment of opposition, interviews to the letter, and even party investigations and manipulations. Even the Galician Television Company Committee denounced the information manipulation in the past elections for the unequal treatment of different applications. We have recently attended an idyllic novel between the Socialist Party and the People's Party in this Parliament. Romance manifested passionately by the People's Party, applauding one of Mr. Méndez's speeches, so that even he cut himself and asked them not to applaud him. It is understandable but not ethically acceptable, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE –socialists – the premonition of the two parties that set up bipartisanism by holding tight and well tied control over this medium before the legislation ends. And for Mr. Besteiro, before his appearance as a defendant. It's all very sad and very brown. The appointments that are being voted today will be in force for the next five years. This assumes, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that the PP will take control of the CTV until 2020 with the convolence and complicity of the main party of the – I don't know if it is – opposition. That party that today is still called a socialist and a worker should be consistent with its political trajectory in recent times and eliminate the socialist and worker-words to be known as a Spanish Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I know that many of you do not agree with this agreement, unilaterally agreed by decision and commitment of your – let us say – sad secretary general – Mr. Besterio –, who defends as a cat his status as a professional politician, appointing for these positions the people of his confidence before being removed from his position by his disturbing imputation and also the worst management and leadership. The leaders pass by, lords, the organic positions pass by, and even the governments, but the principles that you claim to defend remain and remained in time, the socialist principles. They don't sacrifice their ideas in the interests of a discipline of vote, which will make them participants in an exchange of postos to the purest style of what is recently called caste. Frankly, it's embarrassingly alien to what's happening today in this Chamber. They won't count on my vote. Nothing else. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u16	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today in this plenary is an example of a way of understanding the policy that degrades democracy and degrades our self-government, in understanding the policy that rejects society. The People's Party and the Socialist Party are turning the renewal of the statute bodies and the Board of Directors of the CRTVG into a genuine Cambalache and a fraud of democracy. That's the reason for our discrepancy. The problem is not – as Mr Puy has said – that some groups would like to send more. The problem is that you continue to practice the oldest quota-sharing policy, to shield bipartisanism, the cost of compromising the independence of the statutory organs and the independence of CRTVG. And they also do so with a total lack of transparency, with a complete lack of respect for this Parliament, which is reserved only for the role of referendum what you have cooked between bambalins. And they do it in addition to the case of CRTVG, in the case we are now occupied, failing to comply with their own legality. Ladies and gentlemen, the Public Media Act of Galicia is clear: the election of the Director General must be carried out simultaneously with the election of the members of the Governing Council, and the first framework mandate must be processed and approved by the Parliament of Galicia within the time limits laid down for the first election of the Director General and the Board of Directors, something which is flagrantly disregarded, illegality and disarray, for until Parliament approves the framework agreement and the Joint Programme contract, the new members cannot take possession. And do you know that you answer us to these complaints to the Bureau, to the claim that we filed three parliamentary groups? Let me read the answer textually, because it is not wasteful: "In view of the fact that the temporary forecasts collected in Galician Audiovisual Media Act do not contain singular legal consequences for the alleged non-compliance, irregularities cannot be inferred in the Bureau agreement whose review is requested." Finally, let me translate what I just read from the text: nothing happens because the law has passed through the hole because the law does not contemplate the consequences of this procedure. That's what the Bureau tells us! [[Applause]] What rigour in defense and in compliance with legality! By the way, at 1.57 p.m. an e-mail was sent to the speakers of the parliamentary groups the report on the legal services of this House that we request three parliamentary groups at 1.57 p.m. today! Three minutes before the beginning of the plenary! As one of the arguments is that the non-fulfillment of deadlines is irrelevant, I imagine, by the same rule of three, that the next time the reports will be delivered to us once the legislation is finished. This is the subject of legality and Parliament itself. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, if there's a political force that believes in the importance for the country of a Welsh public television station, it's the political force that I represent: the Galician Nationalist Block. If I may speak in the staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u19	...I have always repudiated qualitatively as – by setting an example – that of "telegacy", so they have autonomous, symptoms of undervalued, contempt for themselves. I've always rejected those qualifications. We believe in the importance and necessity of a Welsh public television station, a public television station, but not a government station, an independent and plural, independent public television station, ultimately respectful of its founding purposes. The problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, this is what I have to say, is that the rush of some to place theirs will have the consequence of perpetuating the partisan control of the People's Party in the RTVG even in the forthcoming legislation; that partisan control that is degrading day by day a radio and television that is all and that has to be at the service of society, that has to be at the service of this country. And even above all, it's all done by skipping its own legality. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we will not endorse this attack on the independence of CRTVG with our vote. We are not going to support this fraud of our own democracy with our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u20	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Beiras Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u21	There are processes in which the stage of politics becomes a tragic farce. In the field of the Spanish State, this has happened too often, for too many periods, too long in time. Almost we could say, strictly speaking, that if we take as reference the reasonably viable models of representative democracy, the periods in which this took place in the Spanish state are exceptional. We know that. This creates a huge difficulty in really establishing the incardination of society and the institutions of democratic culture as a civic culture, which is the first thing that has to happen. When we speak of republic or monarchy, we almost always talk of regimes and forms of organization of the power of the state. It is strictly impossible for a republic or republican institutions if there is no republican culture in citizenship. If there had been a republican and democratic culture in citizenship, what we are living today, which is really tragic, even if it was a farce, it could not happen, because citizenship would rise; civically, but it would rise This episode is probably one of the phases of the implementation of what Mr. Núñez here present – of the present body – proclaimed as a democratic impulse. I was going to start the democratic impulse, and we see what happens. To me what frankly – as spokesman for the Left-wing Galician Alternative Group – surprises me enormously is where it really left its dignity the Party of the Socialists of Galicia-PSOE, because after it commits not to count for anything with the other groups of the House, that is, what we have always said the PP Group did with its absolute majority, making it a single party, reducing it to zero, to ashes, the votes cast by the citizens who voted for other forces, such as our own, absolute impotence in this House, that there is another political force that is in the opposition and that adds to this course, frankly, is tragic, tragic to democracy. But, above all, that after that the PP sees the proposal for nomination for the Senate on behalf of this Parliament, no less than that of the Secretary General of the PSdEG-PSOE; that even after that in the agreements to reconfigure the Board of Auditors, where the PP makes some proposals and the PSdEG-PSOE corresponds to another, it turns out that the candidate Mr. Xaquín Fernández Leicega, a professor entitled to the Faculty of Economics, is vetoed by the PP. What's that way to wake up? I mean, what does that really mean? Let the PP put all the candidates. The ones you put on, but the right to veto those you put on. And you accepted. Where do you think you can get along that way? Well, I'm telling you to finish it quickly, because it's not worth it to turn around and because I don't want to start a war with the Socialist Group, which would be wrong for me to be an enemy, unfortunately, regardless of what you do. Whatever they do wrong!, despite all attempts of suicide committed by their political apparatus and their leadership!, as a party that must represent the socialist or Social Democratic space of the Spanish state's citizenship, and not what the People's Party has, intoxicated up to him. The next thing is this. This is like a magnetic resonance of this House skeleton, which corroborates the diagnosis of the clinical situation of the second borbonic restoration regime. Because the following has just happened, which is very serious: the government-opposition bipolarity dialectic has just been broken and replaced by the bipolarity dialectic – not by our own will – between the dynamic parties of the regime and the ruptureist forces against the regime. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. Socialist Group. You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is difficult to qualify, after what has been heard in this micro-debate, what has happened in Galicia in the last few weeks, where dozens of Greek governments have been formed by a pact between the political forces that are now disengaged with all kinds of qualifications. Perhaps they would be wrong when they agreed to the governance of local institutions, or perhaps today they lose something that hurts them and prevents them from accepting democratic results? I understand that Law 9/2011, of public media, which is what brings about the cause of what we are debating today, has not been approved by any of the groups that have just spoken, and from there you can understand what follows. But this group did participate in the debate of Law 9/2011, and for three years it came demanding unceasingly... It's not his turn to talk. He's got to go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u24	Mr. Beers. Excuse me a moment, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u25	He has repeatedly demanded that the law, the current law and the democratic law be complied with, and now at last, while other legal and financial proceedings are completed, the final process begins at the parliamentary stage which includes three proceedings, the first of which he concludes today. We have demanded that this law be complied with, and we have demanded it because the situation has evolved worse over these years. Public channels in Galicia have retreated into the audience in a very important way. The multiplicity of channels in the television grid, above all, has aggravated this phenomenon, and this has had important consequences both in the fall of advertising revenue and, unfortunately, in the support of the Government, which has been reduced by 25%. If we continue this trend over the next few years, we will not be talking about who sits in the council, but about the mere survival of a company that today has an audience of less than 10%. What's the minimum threshold for the soustela? Or 3%, or 5%? If the trend in recent years is maintained, it would disappear. We are, therefore, at an important point in which decisions must be made and made through the advice that is to be elected today and the future direction. Decisions that have to do with the priority audience on television. We have denounced how the current programming has caused the urban television viewer to flee, that there is too much biased programming towards the rural level, towards older people before young people, towards people with lower purchasing power rather than more purchasing power, and all of this, of course, has consequences for the collection of advertising revenues. The audience on television in Galicia does not look like the country's average audience, and that has to be corrected; and it has to be corrected the water that it has at this time has the audiovisual sector, because with you the audiovisual sector, which in the last decade has been pointer in Spain, and even with a relatively important presence, so relatively important in international markets, at the moment it is one of the worst moments in its history, and that needs to be recovered, and of course there is a separate policy with the professionals, who are currently demoralized after years of non-renewing the templates and that there are no professional promotion mechanisms. And we have to have a clear view of the balance between foreign programming and own production, and we have to have – and I will never get tired of saying it – a different information policy. The public channel cannot be the sole speaker of the Government; the public channel cannot subject the professionals of communication to the service of a party or party information, to information behind the pluralism of society. Perhaps the public channels in Spain or Galicia can never be like the BBC because they come from a different culture, but it is possible, even in the current legal framework, to take steps towards a more neutral information policy, which puts more value on the work of professionals, and an information policy that above all accounts for the pluralism that exists in society. And because all this I have just announced is possible, and because all this I have just announced must be the program of the future company, it's why today we're going to lend our support to the candidatures that are presented to the council, in the hope that they will be those who, with the future leadership and the framework mandate that is approved on their day, will correct the path of permanent retreat that leads to the company and regain that position within the German audiovisual spectrum, which seems to us to be absolutely important. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u26	Thank you very much. The People's Group has the word Mr. Pedro Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, the adoption of the Galician Audiovisual Media Act in September 2011 gave an impetus, confirmation and a commitment for the public character and independence of the Galician Radio-Television Company, hence a reinforcement on the road that was undertaken in 1984 with the company's constitution. That reinforcement of their independence – as you see it, I agree very much with what the Block says today, that we want a public and independent CRTVG, which is reinforced by this law – is just done through – among other things – the choice and renewal of its governing organs through a new mechanism. I understand that they are now claiming compliance with the law that they have not voted for, but please do not say that this procedure is illegal when it is endorsed by the House's juridicals. The law is a step forward, not only because it was obliged to comply with Community legislation that threatened to question public aids for autonomous public television, but also because it provides by means the company – now the corporation – to be able to compete better in the new environment of audiovisual markets, with new digital platforms and with a new concept that enables them to gain quality and thus rise to their audience. But it is also a great advance in management, both because it guarantees its financial stability and its sustainability, to which it actually contributes from one board of directors from 12 members to another from 6. Finally, we strengthen the fulfilment of the purposes of radio and public autonomous television: their independence, their plurality and the veracity of information. And of course, also, what is fundamental to us: to continue to be the fundamental instrument of promoting language, culture and the elements of our identity as a people, also through new digital instruments and means. To get this, two things had to be done. The first is a legal transformation that we already see is in the process of being completed, to transform the company into a corporation. So that where there were three entities -- one entity and two public companies -- there was one public corporation. But, as I said, there are also new mechanisms of choice. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the first time that candidates for the Company's Board of Directors, in this case of the Galician Radio Television Corporation, appear in this House to be examined by Members, except those groups that logically fail to ask questions. This is the first time that the vote of the Board of Directors is explained, which was not done when the Block participated and proposed candidates in the election under Mr. Biras's leadership. It is the first time, too, that we have elected a Council of the Galician Radio Television Corporation that strengthens its independence from the Government precisely because it does not coincide with the mandate of the parliamentary majority, which is one of the instruments that guarantee the independence of regulatory bodies, as everyone who knows something about this knows and knows about it. This is the first time that, precisely for all this, you are not the secretary of organization or the secretary of organization of no party, of no political force, on the Board of Directors. It is the first time, as the law says, that the organ is a parity, with three men and three women, as the law commands. This is the first time that we have applied a super-qualified majority, that in the legal systems only corresponds to the reform of the Statute, for the election of the commissioners of this House, to ensure compliance with the law through the Board of Directors. The qualified majority are the instrument used in democracy when one believes that democracy is based on agreement, transaction and dialogue, not confrontation, imposition or application of most automatic, left-right, in all kinds of matters. By the way, AGE would have the right to have a member on the Board of Directors if it did not become because he had a split in his Parliamentary Group, which explains why the Joint Group says what this election process says. The process of quotas is also criticized, when this public appearance of candidates takes place on the same day as the Block claims the presidency of the Crown Parliament, adding its quota of 5 to 5 that had led to the tides, because with its quota it was not enough. Finally, I understand that those who think that democracy is falling apart and that institutions are not able to maintain the stability of the whole democratic system that we have given them criticize this appointment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u29	And we defend it precisely because it reinforces the bet by some public media of audiovisual communication in Galicia, in Greek, more independent and more sustainable. We hope that the new advisors, if they are finally elected, will fulfill their obligations to achieve this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u30	Thank you very much. We shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] I believe that all Members and all Members already have the papers. So I ask the vice presidents to come up to the poll to pick them up. Mr. Secretary starts calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u31	If all Members and Members have exercised their right to vote, we do the voting. [[Proceeding to scrutiny.]] [[Pause.]] The result of the ballot was the following: votes cast, 65; votes in favour of Don Xosé Antón García Ferreiro, 55; votes in favour of Don Luis de la Mata Cantó, 53; votes in favour of Don Higinio Meigide Gómez, 53; votes in favour of Don Ana Isabel Peón Piñeiro, 54; votes in favour of Don Beatriz Soler Vázquez Guillen, 54; votes in favour of Don Letizia Vilar Pumares, 50; votes in favour of Don Ana Isabel Peón Piñeiro, 54; votes in favour of Don Beatriz Soler Vázquez Guillen, 54; votes in favor of Don Letizia Vila Pumares, 50; votes in vain, 7; votes in white, 3. So, reached by all of them by most of the two thirds, 50 votes, they are elected and elected members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation Radio Television of Galicia S.A., Don Xosé Antón García Ferreiro, Don Luis de la Mata Cantó, Don Higinio Meigide Gómez, Don Ana Isabel Peón Piñeiro, Don Beatriz Soler Vázquez Piñeiro and Don Letizia Vilar Pumares. We continue the development of the agenda with point 4 of legislative texts. Debates and votes on the opinion drawn up by the 3rd Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal for a Law Reform Act 6/1985 of 24 June 1985 of the Council of Auditors and other rules for the prevention of corruption
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u32	They remain for the full amendment of the Joint Group, the Nationalist Block of Wales, the Alternative Left Galician and the Socialist Group. The president of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation. Mr. Bugallo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u33	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I shall read the Opinion on the Proposal for a Reform Act of Law 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and of the consolidated text of the Financial and Budgetary Regime Act of Galicia, adopted by Legislative Decree 1/1999, of 7 October, for the prevention of corruption. The bill submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 6 April 2015. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 7 April 2015, admitted to its proceedings and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The bill was taken into consideration at the plenary session on 28 April 2015. The People's Parliamentary Group made 35 partial amendments; the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia introduced 58; the Alternative Parliamentary Group Galga de Left, 32; the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 30; and the Joint Parliamentary Group, 20, and they were qualified on 15 May 2015. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 18 June 2015, appointed the following rapporteurs: Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga, holder; Ms. María Herminia Pouso Maneiro, alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Fr. José Luís Méndez Romeu, holder; Ms. María Carmen Gallego Calvar, alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galga de Left, Fr. Jose Manuel Biras, holder; Mr. Ramon Vázquez Díaz, alternate; by the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Fr. Francisco Xesú Jorquera Caselas, holder; Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, alternate; and by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms. María Consuelo Martínez García, holder; and Ms. Carmen Igles Sueiro, alternate. The Constitutive Session of the Préncia took place on June 18, 2015. The remaining meetings were held on 1 and 3 July 2015. The report was written on this last one. At these meetings, the joint text of the bill was studied together with the amendments tabled, and the report containing the recommendations made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption of the following amendments, was drawn up: The Group of the People's Parliamentary Group, paragraph 1, amended by a transaction drawn up with paragraph 4 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; Amendment No 11 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; Amendment No 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, subsuming Amendments Nos 35 and 36 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Amendment No 18 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Group of Wales. And Amendments Nos 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35. Of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, paragraphs 3, 7 and 11, subsumed in the People's Group 3, 30 and 35, subsumed in the People's Group 13, 36, also subsumed in the People's Group 13, 50, 51 and 58. The AGE Parliamentary Group, paragraphs 1 and 6. Of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 4 and 18, the latter subsumed in the 13th of the People's Group. And of the Joint Parliamentary Group, number one. It also recommended to the Commission the acceptance of the following compromise amendments: transactional amendment drawn up in paragraph 4 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; transactional amendment drawn up in paragraph 3 of the Left Galician Alternative; transactional amendment drawn up in paragraph 13 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; transactional amendment drawn up in paragraph 15 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; transactional amendment drawn up in paragraph 8 of the People's Parliamentary Group; and paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The recommendation for the adoption of Amendments Nos 28 to the Popular Group and 50 to the Socialist Group, to abolish Article 3 of the bill, required to amend its title. The Commission, meeting on 16 July 2015, approved by most of the Parliament's report, which was incorporated into a transaction drawn up with Amendments Nos 26, 27 and 28 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote in this plenary session consists of a explanatory statement followed by two articles, an additional provision, three transitional provisions, a derogation and two finals. Article 1 amends several provisions of the Law of the Council of Auditors to extend its scope by expressly conferring on it the competence to prevent corruption in the public sector of the Autonomous Community. Article 2 amends the recast text of the Galician Financial and Taxation Regime Act as referred to the time limit for the revision of the General Account of the Autonomous Community to the Council of Auditors and the Court of Auditors. Finally, the regulatory text is closed with various provisions contained in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u34	Thank you, Mr. Bugallo. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u35	Thank you, President. This bill is nothing more than a new publicity campaign by the People's Party, since after granting the Board of Auditors responsibility for preventing and combating corruption, it does not provide itself with the necessary material and human resources. In addition, the conclusions reached by the Board of Auditors, and its recommendations regarding the prevention of corruption, will not be bound to comply, therefore, with the whole interest of the People's Party in this bill lies in its campaign of improvement of the party's image through the surrounding corruption scandals. And to finish, this bill never counted on the opinion, collaboration and approach of the employees of the Board of Auditors, imposing on them a condition that has never been negotiated with the union representation. We maintain our amendments because we believe that they are fundamental to ensuring transparency and to ensure the struggle and prevention of corruption. To begin with, Amendment No 2, where we add that the reports issued by the Board of Auditors were binding on the Government and must be complied with. It is not understood that the Board of Auditors issues reports which are subsequently totally disallowed by the Government itself. Amendment No. 3, where it was requested that the Board of Auditors, in its function as supervisory officer, warn of the evidence of accounting liability, in addition to the Court of Auditors, also the Prosecutor's office, was also rejected. As well as Amendment No 5, where it was requested that two members of the Staff Board be part of the Plenary, to ensure the transparency and participation of the Board of Auditors staff in making decisions that affect them directly. We also maintain Amendment No 6, to eliminate collaboration with private entities in the supervisory function of the Board of Auditors. Companies and private entities always represent particular economic interests, and therefore contradictory to transparency and prevention and fight against corruption. We also maintain Amendment No 8, where we remove, from the staff who can access the Board of Auditors, the staff of the Advisory Council and the Galician Parliament. We understand that if it is already specified that they have to be officials and officials, and therefore Parliament's staff are included, it does not seem reasonable that these posts are covered by members of the Advisory Council, since they may not be officials, but are directly designated members, on their fingers. We also oppose and maintain the amendment against which the retirement age is extended to 72 years, since it has no kind of logic that it is an island within retirement ages, especially when other professionals, even professionals who are lacking, as is the case with doctors, are prevented from expanding their working life, forcing them to retire, while there is a different standard for the Board of Auditors. We also maintain Amendment No 10 and all the amendments that speak of citizen participation, which deny any possibility of direct participation in citizenship, referring to the Act of citizen participation, but not laying down in Parliament's Rules those rights that citizens and citizens have to participate directly in parliamentary bodies. We call for the participation and direct exposure of the persons designated by the commission promoting non-legislative proposals. It was not accepted. So, of course, as with the citizen-participation Li, it will become nothing more than propaganda, which does not improve, nor does active or encourages the citizen-participation of anything in matters that are of interest to him. We also maintain the amendment to Article 1.15(6a) in the limitations on the selection of candidates proposed by parliamentary groups. We understand that they should also be included in those people who have been designated as potential staff to occupy qualified jobs such as confidence or political counselling. Also those who have played advisory roles for the parliamentary groups of the General Courts or of the autonomous parliaments, as well as any others who may affect or undermine their independence in the functions to be developed as account advisor or account advisor. We also maintain amendments related to the right to collective bargaining of the Board of Auditors staff. Amendments such as Articles 12 and 13 which affect Articles 12 and 17 of Law 6/85, and which sought to establish the commitment of the Government of Greece to convene the negotiator Bureau of the Staff Regulations of the Galician Council of Auditors. An old claim, a claim that has been coming for years, that if a staff status has been granted to Parliament staff in Galicia, but it is not granted, without any explanation, to the staff of the Board of Auditors. We also insist – at least we try – that although the reports of the Board of Auditors were not binding, if they were all those reports, resolutions and recommendations related to the prevention of corruption. It wasn't accepted either. Which leads us to wonder how we can fight corruption if the Administration is the first to grant the ability to ignore the warnings, resolutions and recommendations of the Board of Auditors on this matter. Without the commitment to execute the sayings of the Board of Auditors, all the fight against corruption is no more than a mere electoral propaganda. We also maintain the right of all parliamentary groups – in Amendment No 15 – to be transmitted and to be sent all reports of the Board of Auditors, which are now limited – according to the text of the Phoenician Parliament – to draft laws. We also maintain Amendment No 16. We are contrary to what is stipulated in the statement by the Phoenician Council, since it provides that the current staff of the Board of Auditors will maintain the same legal regime and working conditions as they stand at the time of the entry into force of that law. But the reality is that the text does not solve the problem of the numerous possible staff that exist today in the Board of Auditors, some of them since their own creation, has been thirty years. That's why Amendments Nos 16, 17, 18 and 20 propose that temporary staff currently serving on the Board of Auditors be subject to a consolidation process, which will be negotiated with union representation. The posts for the staff of the Board of Auditors are usually provided by the tender-opposition procedure. We don't understand that allergy that the People's Party has to convene public jobs through a contest-opposition. I, of course, give birth to the ethics of all of them and to all of the Greeks, so we don't understand that these posts have to follow another path which is not an opposition. After this consolidation process was completed, we wanted the Full Council of Auditors to proceed to propose to the Galician Board the convening of an OPE to cover the steps it deems necessary to meet the new powers assigned to the Board of Auditors. In short, this bill, as I said, is only electoral propaganda from the People's Party, propaganda that you are fighting against corruption, but propaganda, because then, within your ranks, there is no fight against corruption, and we can observe how people who are charged with corruption cause keep their posts on the Board of Auditors. How can one fight corruption when the body that has to fight and prevent corruption has among its members persons charged with corruption? The hypocrisy of the People's Party is, of course, demonstrated. In short, a proposal of unnecessary law for society, unnecessary in the fight against corruption, unnecessary in the prevention of corruption. A bill that does not respect labour rights or trade union rights; that denies the right to collective bargaining and to participation in trade union representation in the negotiation of working conditions. A bill that does not acquire any commitment to the fulfilment of the Board of Auditors' dictates in relation to the prevention and fight against corruption, nor does it provide human and technical means to the Board of Auditors so that it can carry out this function with guarantees. It's just propaganda, and it's also a propaganda that is shaped here today with an indecent pact, a pact that is a democratic fraud to all the Greeks and Greeks, in the votes that we've just made right now. Votes I didn't participate in. I didn't abstain, and I want to make it clear. Do not participate in this democratic fraud. Fraud formed in an agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And, of course, I regret that the Socialist Party, that in propaganda, in the media and audiences, wants to self-proclaim leader, or that one who can lead a change in state and a change in Galicia, of course, if he doesn't change his hands, will continue to repeat in the street those screams that so little like the People's Party and that I'm not going to repeat so that the president doesn't call me in order, but that you all know. That of "PSOE and PP, the same..." You're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u36	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the People's Group, there is a saying that the fox cannot be taken care of by hens. I say this because one of the characteristics of the times we live is to understand politics as a simple game of appearances, and in that way to understand politics as a simulation exercise, Government Feijóo is all a master. In today's plenary we have a good example. This plenary culminates in the process of several bills and bills presented to us by the People's Group as measures of democratic impulse. And if there were any doubts that we can expect when the People's Party speaks of democratic impulse, the lot will also include reform of the regulation of this Parliament, born in this case an initiative of the Socialist Group, which seems to be committed to further playing the dirty game of the People's Party; a reform of the regulation that recalls the express reform of the Constitution. After the Rules of Procedure have been introduced, little less than as untouchable, it is urgently renewed to enter into force in the next session, with the sole intention: to try to shield the status of bipartisanism in this House by cutting rights to the other parliamentary groups. In addition, the debate of these wonderful measures of democratic impulse takes place just after the monstrous spectacle we have just attended: the cambalache between the PP and the PSOE to divide the statutory bodies and the Governing Council of CRTVG, compromising the independence of these organs and the independence that radio and public television must have. That's why trusting the PP's democratic impulse measures is as much as entrusting the fox with the care of the chickens. And in the bill now under discussion we have a new example. You took care of yourself. First, we proceed to select the candidates to fill the vacancies of the Board of Auditors, and then we discuss the reform of the Board of Auditors Act. It is not even expected to pass the new law so that the choice of advisors will suit, if appropriate, what this reform project sets up. And we don't even take advantage of the renewal of the members of the Board of Auditors to include in the renewal of Mr. Dositeo Rodríguez; because we are sure that, if the People's Party had demanded his resignation, this would have happened. We are now debating a law which has, among other purposes, assigned to the Board of Auditors powers in the area of the prevention of corruption, and while, at the Council, a gentleman charged with a alleged offence of misappropriation of public funds in a foundation subject to the supervision of the Board of Auditors itself. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, situations like this are the ones that urgently need to be corrected. As long as they don't, this proposal and other proposals, under the overwhelming title of "democratic impulse measures", lack the slightest credibility. In case there were few doubts that we are facing an initiative that was born of a propaganda operation, an initiative put forward in a hurry to accompany the gallery proposals that Mr. Feijó announced when he appeared in this House to talk about corruption, it turns out that the People's Group itself had to present 35 amendments to its own bill. He presented more amendments than the Parliamentary Group of the BNG itself. Look, we do not deny that the amendments incorporated into the procedure of Ponto and Commission improve some aspects of the original text, at least when it comes to providing it with more technical rigour, but do not change the substantial aspects that have motivated us to vote against taking this proposal into consideration in the whole debate. Our amendments respond to the following objectives. First, to provide the Council with more means so it can effectively assume the new functions assigned to it. Second, strengthen their independence. Third, it also strengthens its powers. And the fourth, and the last, shielding also the independence of their staff. To expand the Council's competence, a basic premise is to provide it with more means. If you don't, this law is pure propaganda, it's pure smoke, it's a toast to the sun. That's why our amendment 1 proposes that the assumption of competences in the area of corruption prevention entails providing the Council with a body that will have its own structure and specific functions in this area. And, in line with this, our Amendment 13 proposes to create a risk prevention management against corruption, defining the functions and structure of corruption. In addition to providing the Council with more means, the assumption of new powers must be accompanied by measures that really ensure and strengthen the independence of the Council. Therefore, with the aim of ensuring greater independence, professionalism and impartiality in the actions to be carried out in office, Amendment No 15 lists the causes of ineligibility to be appointed counsellor, a catalogue far broader and much stricter than is currently available and what is envisaged in this proposal for reform of the Council of Auditors Act. Our Amendment 11 proposes the amendment to Article 9.1. Article 9.1 says that, in order to improve the exercise of its functions, the Board of Auditors may subscribe protocols or agreements with other external public sector supervisory bodies or with public and private entities; and, frankly, we do not know what private entities paint in order to improve the exercise of Council functions. As we believe that it is also inconsistent with the independence that the Council must have among the objectives of the Joint Committee on Accounts-General Intervention of the Autonomous Community is referred to as "harmonizing action programmes". That's why our amendment 19 proposes the deletion of this reference. Other amendments, Members and Members, propose to strengthen the powers of the Board of Auditors, even giving it the ability to dictate standards of compliance with the fight against corruption. Amendment 2 therefore proposes strengthening the monitoring capacity for the development of high office assets. Amendment 5 proposes to provide the Council with the ability to issue binding opinions. And other amendments propose to lay down the obligation for administrations and entities subject to the scope of this law to implement risk management manuals, providing for this the Board of Directors the ability to propose codes of conduct and manuals of risk management in the field of the prevention of corruption and to monitor its proper implementation, and may even dictate instructions of compliance. These, by way of an example, are some of the functions assigned to the Court of Auditors of Portugal, which are alluded to in the explanatory statement of this law, and which have been collected in the proposals which Mr. Carlos Varela, the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia, has transferred to the Commission of measures to prevent corruption in this Parliament. We also believe that it is necessary to decentralise the powers currently assumed by the Court of Auditors of the State, and not only by a political criterion, ladies and gentlemen, not only because we are nationalists and we believe that real progress in self-government of the peoples leads to more democracy and equipping people with tools for their social welfare; also by a technical criterion, of pure effectiveness. The centralization of powers in the State Court of Auditors leads to absurdity as we will then comment on. In this same plenary session, the Law on the Financing of Political Training and the Foundation and Related Associations will be discussed; a law which envisages the creation, from the budgets of the Union, of a grant to the ordinary functioning of the parties in Galicia, and despite the main purpose of the Board of Auditors to monitor Galicia's public accounts, it turns out that the control of that subsidy is going to be exercised by the State Court of Auditors, a total and absolutely overburdened tribunal. And I'm setting another example to illustrate them. The Galego Nationalist Block is already subject to the State Court's control by the fact that it is the beneficiary of the State subsidy to the ordinary functioning of the parties by having representation in the Congress of Deputies. It turns out that before the audit was present; the Court of Auditors was moving technical to our national headquarters to monitor our accounts. On the other hand, in the last controlled exercises, the saturation of matters to be dealt with by the State Court of Auditors merely causes the court to review the documentation sent by e-mail to the Nationalist Block Galego. We are not afraid of monitoring, ladies and gentlemen, so we propose that powers now assumed by the State Court of Auditors may be developed by the Galician Board of Auditors itself through the signing of agreements or collaborative protocols. And, in particular, our amendment 3 proposes that the Council may sign collaborative protocols or agreements with the Court of Auditors for the purpose of simplifying and harmonizing the control work of political parties based in Galicia. In order to decentralise the powers currently assumed by the State Court of Auditors, we also propose that the Council be able to assume powers in the field of valuation. To make it possible, our amendment 29 proposes to add a new additional provision so that, within three months of the entry into force of this law, the German Government may present a draft amendment to the Organic Law of the Court of Auditors, to, once approved by this Parliament, forward it to the General Courts of the State. And finally, different amendments refer to the situation of the Council staff. Amendments 20 and 30 propose that the usual procedure for the provision of squares be the competition, and in particular the opposition contest, and not necessarily – as stated in the text of this bill – the specific tender. Amendment 10 proposes that two representatives of the Staff Board be present at the plenary session. And other amendments propose to regularize the status of public service in the Board of Auditors. As we have already said in the whole debate, we believe that it is essential to end situations of precariousness and interimity. In the thirty years of the Council's existence, the staff situation remains unregulated, and there are professionals in the Council who have been in an interim situation for 20 years. Precautionary, lack of stability, is totally and absolutely incompatible with independence, gentlemen. Our amendments – and I have already concluded –, as we have already said, aim to strengthen the independence and competence of the Council and provide it with more means so that it can effectively assume the new functions entrusted to it. Because if you don't meet these premises, this law, gentlemen, is an empty shell. If these premises are not met, this law is pure smoke, pure propaganda, part of this famous elevator operation of Mr. Feijóo. Just to avoid it and to provide this law of real content, we propose that these amendments be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u38	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. In addition to the institutional blinding of bipartisanism that we have just seen with this – I would say – a splendid vote, the People's Party, also with the shocking complicity of the Socialist Party, has just begun a shining career of image-washing, an operation of urgent aesthetic surgery, to save itself from the imminent debacle and, by the way, save bipartisanism. Thus, in a full summer, in the esters of this legislation, the People's Party, of the crochet of the main opposition party, will pass nothing more and nothing less than five laws; among them, the Law of Participation in Parliament of Galicia, the reform of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the reform of the Law of the Board of Auditors, and the Law of Party Financing. Nothing more and nothing less, in the middle of August! With regard to the reform of the Law of the Council of Auditors, from the Alternative Galga de Left we deeply regret that the reform of a law, a statutory body such as the Board of Auditors, which directly emanates from the Greek Parliament, if it has done so. From our point of view, we insist that the reform of the Board of Auditors should have taken place following the establishment of a parliamentary statement that would allow the members of the Board of Auditors, also their employees, and persons with knowledge of the control of public accounts, to carry out a rigorous reform process and, of course, participated. We also regret this concern and urgency, reflected in the presentation process, undoubtedly motivated by the need of the Greek Government to complete this political course with a whitening of the image of the People's Party, harassed by corruption scandals. And we regret at last that this legislative reform of the Board of Auditors coincides with the renewal of the pending vacancies over the years of this body, which are now covered – as it has already been said – without even waiting for the adoption of a new regulatory framework of this supervisory body. A process of renewal – that of the account advisors – that is dealt with through a bis- bis pact between the PSOE and the People's Party that includes the distribution of other institutional bodies such as the Board of Directors of CRTVG and the People's Valedor. We are undoubtedly faced with an agonic effort of bipartisanism to divide institutional power within the limits of an exhausted legislation, which in the case of the Board of Auditors also intends to transfer an image of democratic regeneration, equipping this body with competences in the prevention of corruption. And it is done right now, precisely at this point, when a member of the Board of Auditors – Mr. Dositeo Rodríguez –, former councillor of the Fraga era, remains charged with his role as a member of the Patronate of the Fundación Camilo José Cela, who presides precisely his own daughter, and when this body is to be monitored by the Board of Auditors itself. The top of the spook! When the People's Party has a structural problem of corruption in the state, but also in Galicia. And even though the Socialist Party, the main party to the opposition, has its secretary general charged with a case of urban corruption. It has been mentioned here today in an idyllic way, and I would say that this is a terrible love relationship in the summer of bipartisanism to share the institutional pastel through a lamentable spectacle that little or nothing contributes to improving the transparency and cleaning of democratic institutions, when that is exactly what is intended to be sold. But, said this, AGE, Alternative Left Galeg, fully assumes the recommendations of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Justice of Galicia, so we agree that the Board of Auditors performs anti-corruption functions, that is obvious. But we understand that, as the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice of Galicia defended in his day, this measure has to be a complement to other measures which have, of course, a much more important character. One of them is the creation of a specific anti-corruption unit. That's what the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice of Galicia said. That was one of the recommendations of the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice of Galicia. And also provide material and human resources with our judicial apparatus. But this is the opposite path that is following the Government of Greece, when it has our tried-outs of jobs, suffocated by the files, and, of course, without the sufficient means to be able to give the right to justice which must have all the people, every citizen, all the citizenship. So our Justice is collapsed, and Justice is the main means, and most effective, to fight against corruption. By the way, we don't feel identified by this norm, neither by its forms nor by its contents, by its substance. That's why we have 32 amendments, of which the reality is that very few – practically none – have been accepted. This was not the case with Amendment No 1, which was accepted and which allowed the external nature of the Board of Auditors to be noted as the supervisory body of the public sector in Galicia. A word, of an external nature, which was absent from the definition proposed in the original text and which shows the instrumentalized vision that the People's Party has of this statutory institution. We didn't have the same luck with other amendments of importance as well. So, in Amendment No 8 we wanted that if, in the exercise of its supervisory function, the Board of Auditors would warn or warn of signs of an accounting offence, if it had transferred the facts to the Galician Prosecutor's Office, in addition to the mandatory referral to the Court of Auditors, as we know, a court regularly saturated by the deliberation of the affairs of all autonomous communities. This amendment was not accepted. We seek to ensure the transparency and plurality of the Board of Auditors through amendments 9 and 11, which we wish to promote the presence of members of the Personal Board of Auditors itself in its governing bodies: the Plenary and the Government Commission. By amendment 10, we proposed to avoid the possibility of privatizing the functions of the Board of Auditors through private oversight agencies, such as the final text will be collected and, from our point of view, a serious threat to the independence of the Board of Auditors and to carry out its functions, of course, effectively. With Amendment No 12, we proposed that the increase in functions and the creation of a new section for the prevention of corruption should be accompanied by the necessary material and human resources, such as, on the other hand, the major advisor himself, but, of course, the Government is still installed in that maximum of doing more with less, which is no longer a rhetorical way of saying that it is not going to do anything. In Amendment No 15, we address a fundamental issue, from our point of view, in order to guarantee the independence and the necessary confidence of an organ with such important functions as the Board of Auditors, such as the criteria for ineligibility of its members. From the point of view of the Gaga de Left Alternative, no person who has served as a member of the Government or of the governmental bodies of the Autonomous Communities or autonomous societies may be an accountant. No person who has acceded to the status of deputy or senator of the General Courts, or as a member of the Legislative Assemblys of the Autonomous Communities or of the Assemblys of the Autonomous Cities, may serve as accountant. Finally, no person who has also acceded to the status of deputy or senator of the General Courts, or members of the Legislative Assemblies of the communities, can be account advisor, because this directly affects not only their independence, but the trust that the Board itself should have. On the other hand, the proposed limit of 6 years may in practice allow a current government adviser to be appointed as a member of the Board of Auditors in the forthcoming legislation. From our point of view, this incorporates serious doubts about the objectivity that this organ must have. Alternative Left-Galgae understands that the Board of Auditors' ability to act is also based on the ability of its employees to perform their functions independently and without interference. That's why we consider the situation of the employees of the Board of Auditors to be unsustainable, because of the large number of persons in an interim situation, but also because of the large number of appointments by free designation. We understand that, in order for the Council of Auditors to perform their duties effectively, they must count on the necessary stability and independence. That's why we are presenting Amendments 18, 19 and 20, to ensure a proper and up-to-date definition of the different bodies and scales associated with them, with their corresponding functions, which, on the other hand, has been demanding for many years now the Personnel Board of Auditors. In this same sense, we also present amendments 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27, to which we address the essential integration of the bodies of auditors, lawyers and the superior body of the Board of Auditors. And in Amendments 28, 29 and 30, the mechanisms to make that integration effective. With Amendment No 31 we have defended the establishment of a call for a selective process by invitation to tender for temporary staff, which takes in this situation, in many cases, more than 20 years at the Board of Auditors, as an interim. We then reserve the condition of employees made it extinct for those workers and workers who did not meet the condition of official or would function after that selective process. We also tabled Amendment No 21, with which we support the necessary increase in the sanctioning regime by failing to comply with the requirements of the Board of Auditors, but it has not been carried out either. How can corruption be prevented without a penalty with a minimal deterrent capacity? The increase in the sanctioning regime in the Board of Auditors was not supported either. Amendment 22 made it necessary to inform Parliament in Galicia, but also the Prosecutor's Office of the failure to cooperate or obstruct the functions of the Board of Auditors. It wasn't accepted either. And finally, as we have seen in the recommendations to the Board of Auditors' memoirs, we defend through Amendment 32 the need to delay the date of the General Account's referral, setting as a limit on June 30 of the year after the fiscal year, something with which, on the other hand, the Board of Auditors itself agrees, so the statement on the last commission of the Chief Counsel, and it's something that has already been done in the other six autonomous communities of the State. In addition, this would allow them to monitor the results of the monitoring carried out. It wasn't accepted either. This was ultimately the sad result of the process of this legislative reform of the People's Party; a new put-in exercise of the paper shredder for the amendments to the opposition. And what's more serious is a new exercise of parliamentary endogamy. That is, of course, what citizenship already perceives: the parliamentary endogamy of bipartisanism to share the institutional pastel. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u41	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we conclude the debate on corruption which was initiated last January by the President of the Union, and we conclude it in terms of the interests of the Government and the President: without a diagnosis of the causes and, therefore, without a general strategy to eradicate it; with the workers of the commission created on their day paralyzed, and without dilating, the unanimous agreement of this House in the last debate of the state of autonomy. It would probably have been very difficult to reach consensus on such a thorny aspect, but at least it could have been advanced in identifying the risk areas of the Administration and the Government, in the measures relating to high-level positions or authorities which are found subject to judicial procedures or in the strategies proposed by each political group; a level of debate which, in any case, would have involved not totally discarding the contributions of experts who came into commission, but most refused everything. It is obvious to us today that this limited debate does not satisfy the reality described in the media often, with an endless succession of scandals. It is also obvious that this limited debate does not exhaust the demands made by opposition groups, it is only the closure of a communication campaign designed by the Union, which passes through Parliament in the form of three bills. Of all the measures proposed by experts in the relevant commission, only one will give rise to a legislative change, which is the allocation of the prevention of corruption to the Board of Auditors, and the momentum of the risk plans of each institution, a mechanism, by the way, unpublished in the public administrations of Galicia. Once again, I would like to stress that experts identify as risk areas: public procurement, urbanism, selection of staff and concession schemes; issues that will not be mentioned in the rules that are expected to be adopted today. As an example – I am aware that the councillor of Fairy – is here, in the middle of the negotiated procurement procedures there is only competition, and one of the consequences, among others, is the lowest cost savings in the adjudication price. Getting into the matter last January 27th, one of his rare appearances in the House, the president of the board announced five rules against corruption; today they are reduced to three. On the way, he became interested in a new law of transparency, after the pioneering nature that Spain had of the prevailing German standard since 2006, and when the recent state legislation is being severely criticized for its accessibility difficulties. Joining does not consider it appropriate to move forward in this direction. It is no wonder that the relative position of the Galician Community in the ranking of international transparency has fallen from the first position – which has occupied for several years – to the fifth position it occupies at present. Others moved forward, while the German Government was paralyzed. Of the three remaining rules which are currently being debated, and are expected to be adopted, the first amendment to the Organizational Standard of the Board of Auditors to assign it the role of preventing corruption and modifying various aspects of its functioning. The second reform is slightly the regulation of the popular legislative initiative, which, of course, has little to do with corruption. And the third one creates a scheme of grants for the functioning of the parties, which is also linked to the problem we are debating. So an organizational norm for one administration body, another for political parties, and the third one is no longer the makeup of a current rule. Little balance for such a relevant problem! It is interesting that this set of initiatives has been put under the heading of democratic momentum, because there is a great need for imagination to find such an objective in what we are debating today. The opposite sense, if all the democratic impulse that the Government wants is reduced to the three proposals on the agenda – and there is reason to think so – we can deduce that we are doing something different to drive democracy. We have a tailor's drawer that shows the propagandistic character of that January apparition: let's make pompous announcements and let the virtual reality diffuse the contour of tangible reality. The relevant question would be, will they prevent these rules, together or separately, new episodes of corruption? Of course it's not your goal. We could also ask ourselves whether these rules, if they were to be in force in the past, would have prevented known cases. Sadly, no. Then what are we debating today? Far from citizens' problems, at least as identified in the most reliable opinion polls. Are these rules negative? Obviously not. Are they effective? Doubtfully, even for the end they announce; rather, they are an example of the nominalism so present in public life. The text reforming the Council of Auditors has been widely modified in the parliamentary process; it is fair to acknowledge the majority group's will to accept amendments or transactions in favour of improvement. Among those proposed by this group and accepted in the final text, there are matters as relevant as monitoring the risk of corruption plans in different bodies, monitoring the capital situation of the high office or the accuracy of the causes of ineligibility to prevent the situations of rotational doors. Now, many other amendments proposed by this group have been rejected. I'll briefly comment on some of those we keep alive. We have proposed that the Council of Auditors may advise Parliament on economic and budgetary matters. With regard to this matter, we advocate the establishment of a budgetary control office in Parliament which, in addition to improving the control capacity over the Government, may cooperate with the Board of Auditors. The current limitations of Parliament do not allow proper control of some priority functions. I will quote two: the follow-up to the budget, the execution of the budget, which portrays the routine functioning of the Government and the Administration. As it does not allow the process of participation in the drafting of Community legislation through compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, which has now been reduced to a mere formal procedure in this House. We have also proposed, as regards the Statute of Accountants, to regulate the situation of loss of membership or suspension of duties, when there are surviving legal circumstances which call into question the independence of the criterion or the image of the institution; even now one of these are producing. We proposed that the age limit be the same as for officials, because we are witnessing constant pressure from certain groups: judges, notaries, registrators and others, to have unique conditions when, in parallel, other administration professionals are arbitrarily discontinued at the age of 65; for example, the case of Sergas's optionals. Similarly, for the best performance of his functions, we proposed that there should be a Council staff status which would guarantee the necessary immutability, but also independence of criterion, indispensable for the nature of his functions. It's hard to talk about independence from professional criteria when they are subject to discretionary cessation. As for the internal organization of the Council, we proposed the development of an annual memory, precisely with regard to corruption prevention activities, as well as a regulation other than the relevant prevention section, which the text uniquely refers to the President of the Council. And in the same line we advocate a budgetary commitment to deal with the new functions that are defined, which will hardly be accessible to the current resource structure that the Council has. On the other hand, the experience of other countries highlights the complaints of citizens or officials about alleged irregularities or cases of corruption, and the experts who appeared on commission thus explained it. In our amendment we defend those allegations that could lead to the opening of control procedures. As for Article 12, this group regrets the People's Group's refusal to include the administration's senior positions, in the alleged ineligibility, with the same rank as the elected positions. We will thus find ourselves in the future with whom elected members of the Board of Auditors can monitor public accounts corresponding to the exercises in which they were part of the senior management. The current wording of the text improves the initial text, but we believe that the ineligible condition should be strengthened for high office charges that also represent the image of the Administration under review. They are relevant amendments, which in the opinion of this group would have strengthened the operational capacity of the Council without undermining its effectiveness. Most people didn't consider them, making our support for the final text difficult. So, ladies and gentlemen, unless in this final process there is a substantial incorporation of the amendments I have just defended, our group abstains in the final vote, thus recognizing the improvement effort made in the processing, but also the insufficiency of the project and the lost occasion to modernize an indispensable institution in the normal functioning of the Greek autonomy. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u42	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As mentioned above, this session began with an extraordinary plenary requested by the Government to speak of democratic impulse, in which the president proposed to the House the debate of various legislative projects that tried to correct so much there were that they would, in some cases, allow cases of corruption to appear, as well as encourage the participation of citizens, both directly, through the Act of Participation, and indirectly, through the monitoring that fosters the Law of Transparency. And we have concluded the part-session with another extraordinary plenary session in which we are actually going to debate, as it has been said, three of these legislative rules, which, of course, does not mean that the others are given aside. I want to remember that transparency, which is logically part of a legislative package announced by the president, is a rule that the Board has opened at first as a space for citizens' suggestions in February. In March, a second turn of citizen contributions to the Transparency Act was opened to take an opinion on an articulated text, the preliminary draft. This text was also sent to universities, public law corporations, Parliament itself, Valador, the Board of Auditors, the Advisory Council, the Economic and Social Council, to make the relevant allegations. And, as we all know, that law will enter into this Chamber for the next session so that its full entry into force will take place before the end of the year. Therefore, we are ending the session period by fulfilling the democratic impulse proposed by the President. The impulse is a force that already exists in something that is already in motion, or in development. Of course, some people understood a proposal for democratic impulses to put a pulse; that is, a confrontation between two to see who has the most strength, and it wasn't at all. Of course, the proposal for a law which today brings the last procedure to this session has much to do with listening to in the Committee on Study and Prevention of Corruption in this House, because, indeed, this law is not a fruit – not the others – of improvisation, but – among other things – of listening to experts. I also regret that this commission, under circumstances, no doubt related to the proximity of elections, did not shut up. I recalled in the admission debate that the last act that was made in that commission was the delivery by this spokesman, after Mr Besteiro and Mr Núñez Feijóo met to discuss these issues, a suggestion of lines of action, which was presented on 10 November and which has not yet been answered. Having said this, I would also like to thank the groups for helping with their amendments – and in particular the Socialist Party – to improve this text, and I would also like to recall that it remains clear in the debate on admission to the procedure, at least a few issues in which we agree. First of all, the concern about corruption, because it's the question that worries the most about citizenship along with the economic situation. We have experienced, although now it has gone down a little, in the surveys of the CIS peaks close to those that there were in 1995 and 1996 in Spain, which, fortunately, then came down and now again ascended. It was also evident in that debate that, in the face of the temptation to use corruption as a weapon cast in the face of the political adversary – which some call an enemy – or in the face of the attitude of denying the existence of the problem, the rational response proposed by this group, as the most appropriate, was the introduction of institutional reforms. And it is also clear from this law that, in that debate about whether there is systemic corruption or isolated cases, I believe that what is actually the case of immoral people and of romantic people who benefit from the hollows and evases that provoke the system itself, and today, with the approval of this law – if it finally happens, as we hope – there will be fewer slots and there will be less evidence for the indecency that pursues its good, rather than the public good, to have more difficult to achieve that objective. That is why this bill, which is directed – together with the others that we will vote in this extraordinary plenary – to improve our institutional framework, which is intended to prevent, minimize to the extent possible – if possible – and in any case to eradicate corruption of Galicia's administrative and political system. In the admission debate, I was also sure that on more than one occasion that text was for the debate, for its improvement and for the search for consensus around two or three central ideas. First, the importance of putting emphasis on the prevention of corruption, in the prevention phase. Secondly, the idea of assigning this competition and preventing corruption to an independent body of the Executive, in this case the Board of Auditors, which by its experience and its competences, and usually its knowledge of the functioning of the Administration, could not be anything other than the Board of Auditors itself. And at the same time, the text sought to improve the coordination of the Board of Auditors with Parliament and with the Administration, as well as to enhance their independence and ability to act. Then no one voted in favour. Then it was said that it was propaganda, that it was smoke. Today some groups continue to say that it is smoke and propaganda, but at least today there is evidence that there has been dialogue, that there have been changes, and today we are debating a significantly improved text, which maintains the initial foundations presented by the People's Group but which, of course, introduces contributions from the many experts that we have consulted on the initial text, including some of those who have passed through the committee; that it includes some of the suggestions made by the Board of Auditors itself; and that it also includes – not – many of the amendments that were included in this debate and that have given rise to a broad presentation by the chairman of the Commission. I want to remember that the 36 amendments from the People's Party, were accepted 10 from the Socialist Party, 6 from AGE, 15 from the BNG and 1 from the Joint Group. In addition, other 3 from the Popular Group, 6 from the PSOE and 1 from the AGE. In total, the report of the motion and commission accounts for 64 amendments accepted, negotiated or subsumed. So if we add to that the techniques they have presented, as always, with great legal certainty, the legal services of the House, you can understand that the law has changed since the beginning of parliamentary proceedings and not in minor matters. I would like to recall that the amendments accepted – as highlighted – introduce the specificity of the preparation of risk prevention plans that the Board itself will evaluate, is negotiated with the Socialist Group. With the Socialist Group, too, the requirements to be part of the Board of Auditors, and I would like to stress that today's voters strictly comply with all the requirements that are incorporated into the law that we will also vote today. To improve the independence of the Board of Auditors and also the presumption of independence of the members of the Board of Auditors: 6 years for people who have links with political or economic organizations, trade unions or business organizations. And it also reinforces that ability to control people's independence through the introduction of an appearance in Parliament itself. There is also an amendment that was accepted to the group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, by which the Board of Auditors will draw up, year by year, a specific report on the degree of compliance with the recommendations of the Board of Auditors itself. Another amendment tabled by all groups, which voiced the opinion of the representatives of the workers' representatives in relation to the internal regime and staff at their service, reinforcing the autonomy of the Board of Auditors. Finally, by highlighting another relevant one, the initial control regime that has now been said. And in that too we had an agreement, the well-known in English as [...], that is to say, touching the whistle, which is how people who know some cases of irregularity now have a procedure for the Board itself to open a monitoring activity on that complaint by the corresponding person. In short, I believe that today's law is in line with the recommendations made to us by experts in the committee, also with the recommendations made at the international level, for example by international transparency, by OLAF, by the European Union's Anti-Corruption and Persecution Agency, and emphasizes – as experts and international bodies say – prevention, that prevention is done by an agency outside the administration itself. In the Italian case, for example, there was no reference to independent external bodies, but to the creation of organs within the administration itself, which did not produce very good results, as some of the experiences we know of the Italian case suggests. We also have complied with the European Union's recommendations. I would like to remind you that the report on the fight against corruption in the European Union last year, of the year 2014, which prepares the European Commission, precisely recommends Spain to increase the ability of the Court of Auditors and the external control bodies of the autonomous communities to monitor the administration's actions in matters such as recruitment. And even we are in line with the UN convention of 2003, which Spain ratified in 2006 against corruption, creating an independent specialized body. Mr. Méndez asked rhetorically whether the law we passed today would prevent some cases of corruption. I'm sure some would have prevented them. For example, the case of misuse of funds for training courses or ERE. I'm sure that cost procedure would have jumped before the start of the procedure. And many other cases of recruitment, which may be behind some of the irregular funding of political parties in autonomous communities we know, which are in the judiciary, or even in the country as a whole, where there are also known cases of irregular funding that are in the courts. We also make a bet on the Board of Auditors. This is relevant because in Catalonia, which was the first autonomous community that created a body to prevent corruption, a new and independent body, the first one that did was receive criticism from the Council of Accounts of Catalonia because they did not receive that attribution. And the second thing he did was sign an agreement with the Judiciary of Accounts just to exchange information and be able to develop his role. We think this is more reasonable, more rational, more efficient, and we start a path that no one has taken in Spain, which is to give the Board of Auditors, external control powers to prevent corruption. By the way, a way that Left One, after this law was dealt with in Galicia, presented as an amendment to the Law of the Board of Auditors, to the House of Auditors of Andalusia, an idea which was rejected by most that there was, but which the United Left itself assumed as its own in that autonomous community. We also believe that with the law, with the text that we present today after the presentation and commission and being modified, autonomy and independence are strengthened. Counsellors have far more demanding conditions and requirements, in addition to their appearance, there is transparency about the assets of advisers – who did not exist before – and they also reinforce their status as directors of controls. And of course also in staff, not only by self-organization, but because this law introduces a provision that guarantees the job stability of current Council of Auditors workers and also provides that in the future the provision of squares will be by specific competition and not by free designation, as it has been so far. It's possible to look for other systems. The case of the Court of Auditors is an example of the fact that it is perhaps not the best solution to make open calls. We are also improving coordination with Parliament, with the Government, and I would like to remind you here, because it was said that a text was kept, Mr Jorquera, that it is not kept, and that this has already been amended, that of harmonisation, which you have literally cited. And there are also more and better controls on the holders of the controlled bodies, because the Board of Auditors will also have the ability to monitor and monitor whether any substantial changes in the assets of senior officials are noticed once they leave the executive position. Finally, this law I believe is the proper reaction of this House to prevent sources of corruption, to prevent cases of corruption and the perverse and corrosive effects that corruption causes on our political system. And I also believe that this law has as one of its great virtualities and great advantages that it considers that institutional remedies and institutional prevention should be put in place in the face of cases of corruption and not excessively trust in the goodness of human nature regardless of the ideologies of each one. And I also think that by this law we have helped to strengthen the institutional framework of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because, finally, by this law, what we do is once again strengthen the instruments of self-government, in this case on such a sensitive and as important issue as the prevention of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u44	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u45	Thank you, President. Well, I certainly don't feel identified and it seems that I was in a different debate, because here we are talking to the People's Party about that there was dialogue, I don't know who, because it was an express process that was almost undialogued and the dialogue that was made was the People's Party saying that it wasn't practically everything and without even entering into the debate of the issues and the reasons we had in the opposition to present certain amendments. So I now deny the biggest: there was not really a dialogue and a serious and profound debate about the change that the Board of Auditors should have. Of course, no democratic impulse. I insist: I think we missed a perfect opportunity to be able to reach all of us, among all groups, to an agreement of a Council of Auditors law that counts with a broad agreement of the House, to be possible from all groups, because we are all interested in the fight against corruption, and the only thing they wanted to amend was to strengthen precisely that fight against corruption and the prevention of corruption, and to become simply a makeup, which is what the changes have been reduced. We also regret that we are not moving forward in the democracy that we deserve and that we should have the workers of the Board of Auditors with their recognition of the right to negotiate their working conditions and all those aspects that affect them within their duties in the Council. Also, the lack of technical and human resources indicates the lack of real commitment by the People's Party to fight and prevent corruption. It's just makeup, because you can't move forward, you can't fight or open up the possibility that citizenship participates in complaints when you don't equip yourself with the body that you have after you have to monitor all that in the necessary means. We think there are some important things that are not wasted. Unfortunately, I think it is not a measure that has not been thought of, but that the limitations that are put to the proceedings of the Board of Auditors are directed precisely to prevent this work of the Board of Auditors from reaching certain times. I said it in committee and I say it now: it gives the impression that the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo are more concerned about the publicity of their corruption than about eliminating corruption in their ranks. Now, I finish by saying that the ineligibility of the members has been short, that today's election before the adoption of the law is a further indication of the lack of cleaning and transparency of the People's Party, which talks about encouraging the participation of citizenship at the same time as cutting the participation of parliamentary groups, legal representatives in this House of the Greeks and the Greeks, and that all of this is therefore a mere fallacy. As for the amendments to the opposition, I will certainly support them. This bill won't count on my support. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Puy, honestly, after listening to you, after you explained to us all the exemplary measures that are driving the Galician Union on democratic regeneration, the commitment for transparency, the fight against corruption, I don't understand how the New York Times still didn't devote an editorial to putting the Galician Union as a paradigm to mimic the world scale. But look, I'm making a clarification. You have refuted a statement I made in my first intervention that the Board of Auditors is renewed without even waiting for this new law to be approved to accommodate the election to this new law. And you, to replicate, stated that people who have just been elected meet all the requirements. But, in any case, what you cannot discuss is that the choice mechanism is not adjusted to what is currently being established as a proposal for a law. For example, they did not appear before this Parliament before their election, which is something that is envisaged in this bill. As we come into this matter, the BNG will vote in favour of the set of amendments tabled by the opposition groups. We believe that there is a common denominator that inspires most of the amendments of the opposition groups, which have to do with the axes of the first intervention: to provide the Council with more means, to strengthen its independence, to strengthen its powers and to regulate the situation of staff. As is logical, in all these paragraphs each group has its own formulation, not always coincidentally. Some of us would deserve nuances, but that would require an amended vote and, therefore, we shall, in order to avoid this situation, vote in favour of all the amendments tabled by the opposition groups. And when we talk about the amendments tabled by the opposition groups, we also include the Socialist Group in this case, because, however critical we are with the Socialist Party's position in the renewal of the statutory bodies, in the renewal of the Governing Council of CRTVG, and in the reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House, we believe that the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group are in the direction I have just commented on. There are amendments which seem particularly interesting to us, such as amendments which seek to make the new role assigned to the Council of Auditors in the field of Economic and Financial Advice or the creation of a budgetary control office in Parliament itself. This is a proposal which the BNG has repeatedly put forward in all the budgetary debates and which we fully agree with. As it seems particularly interesting to us to amend Amendment 25, which proposes automatic suspension in the functions of a counsellor who has been prosecuted or charged, which would enable us to resolve embarrassing cases that we have already mentioned in the first intervention. And on the other hand, I also announce that the BNG will vote against the dictatorship. As we said in the first speech, we do not deny that in the amendment procedure, in the motion for a resolution, in the committee procedure, this text has been improved in relation to the original text, but it remains unresolved, without incorporating measures to provide the Council with more means, more human and material resources. You don't have the conditions to really assume the new powers that are intended to be assigned to you. We believe that it is totally and absolutely inviolable that the scope of the Council's powers should be significantly extended by introducing, as provided for in this law, mechanisms for the initiation of control procedures through complaints sent by citizens or associations. We believe that it is not feasible for the Council to be able to assume powers in the field of the prevention of corruption, control of the evolution of the assets of high office, advise Parliament on economic and financial matters, without at the same time providing the Media Council with resources so that it can really make a real assumption of these powers. And I insist: the BNG is in favour of conferring on the Council competences in the area of corruption prevention, but, in order for that assumption to be real, it is necessary and essential to address these aspects. Therefore, we do not change our original position, we continue to maintain that fundamental discrepancy with regard to this bill, and – I insist – the BNG will vote against the dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u48	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u49	Well, thank you very much again. The truth is, little we can add to what has been said about this by both the Left Alternative Group and the rest of the groups. Trying to convince, Mr Puy, that the measures presented by the People's Party in this plenary are measures of democratic impulse I think it is at least a coat of hair. In one of the greatest processes of social devaluation, of cutting rights, of cutting rights in the field of civic rights and social rights as we are suffering, such as what is suffering throughout citizenship, talking about measures of democratic impulse, when what is being done, of course, is taking the most anti-democratic measures that have been taken in recent years, in recent decades – we could say – at least, well, an exabripto, right? Then, that attempt, which is always behind the interventions of members of the People's Group, of equalizing, when it comes to corruption, and of trying to convey that idea that, well, corruption is a problem that affects all political organizations, all human organizations, which is a little natural condition of human beings, from my point of view is irresponsible by a political leader. We deliberately confuse it as the conjunctural corruption of structural corruption. It is clear that joint corruption is inherent in any human organization. No one can prevent a person from committing crimes of any kind for his own good. But if you can avoid structural corruption. And that's what a government has to worry about. And the problem is, what the People's Party has is not a problem of joint corruption, it is a problem of structural corruption, which affects its genesis, from its origin, and which is manifested in all its aspects: in the institutional aspect, but also in any sphere of operation of the party, which works as an entity with an end, of course, mafia and for its own benefit. Of course – and when you intervene clearly – you are not concerned about the effects of corruption on citizenship, you are concerned about the effects that corruption has on the People's Party, and that's why they present this measure as a simple facewash, which are very different things. In the face of a problem of structural corruption, what is needed are structural measures, but we can hardly talk about the view that you have of the necessary measures, which are necessary to fight corruption from the point of view of the People's Party, because you have spoken very little about reform. That's the reality. He made a pseudophilosophic intervention, but spoke very little about the contents of this reform, little about a reform that is tremendously poor. What reflects the tremendous poverty of the proposal, even of the original proposal, is the important number of amendments that the text-promoting group itself made, 35 amendments on an original text that had a single article, which modified 29 paragraphs, more amended than the text itself, than the paragraphs itself of the original text, because a text that was obviously ineffective and useless to improve the functions of the Board of Auditors, as follows at present. What improvements are there after this procedure? Man, some yes. It was also necessary that no improvements could be incorporated; also through the acceptance of some amendment, because yes, also through the acceptance of some amendment; it was only missing. But, of course, there are no changes that are necessary to make the Board of Auditors an effective tool in the fight against corruption, nor is this reform of the Board of Auditors accompanied by other measures in the judicial system, which are really necessary. As far as the amendments of the opposition groups are concerned, of course we are going to show our general support. We could get into a debate, but we can hardly get into a debate now when there has been no debate throughout the presentation process, because we really haven't had an opportunity to come into debate on the really important proposals of the opposition. And we have also agreed on three fundamental aspects of these amendments. Most of them speak precisely of targeting the means and resources of the Board of Auditors, something that we have defended from the outset. We also support amendments aimed at improving, ensuring the independence of the Board of Auditors and the stability of its workers. In that sense, we are going to support the amendments to the opposition, but it will soon serve, because, as we said, the People's Party introduced this reform with a single purpose, which is to sell smoke and transfer that idea of democratic regeneration, impossible in a party that has an absolutely structural corruption problem, and that, therefore, the main measure of democratic regeneration would be to leave the Government and convene elections from now on. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This group also believes that with regard to amendments from other groups, it is better to maintain a global position without getting into nuances, since they as a whole tend to improve a text which, although it has already been partially modified, we still believe that it could make much more progress in the final drafting. And we will therefore support the amendments of the other opposition groups. But it's true that here this afternoon because if they said various things, some even fun, right? I heard here about something that reminded me of a known poem by a great Spanish poet, Ángel González, who is entitled "Inventary of places conducive to love." And he speaks Angel González, and he writes it very well with a cadescent prose, that against what people think is much better the summer than spring for love; he explains the reasons. And when this afternoon there was a tone, first there was talk of love stories and then he was growing up until he came to the horrid passion, he couldn't help but think, as to the emulsions, how many debates there may be in this Chamber imitating the great style of Angel González. I have to say in this regard that when, a few days ago, nothing less than the Government, from the pulpit of the Moncloa, accused the Socialist Party of being handed over to the radicals in Spain and put it in relation to what was said today here that the Socialist Party was handed over to the People's Party, something was not working well. I want to believe that all of this is a result of the recognition of the key position that the Socialist Party has in the political development of Spain and Galicia, because this has been marked by the citizens. On the one hand, the position of facilitating the stability of institutions when our competition is essential and, on the other hand, that of facilitating the construction of a political alternative, as has just happened in the local elections. And so I'm going to have to abstract other issues that have been said could not be placed under the kindly heading of Angel González' poems and focus on the essential idea: something must be doing well the Socialist Party when the wraths of Moncloa and the wraths of some opposition groups, both in Spain and Galicia, coincide in catching up the parades of the Socialist Party. We will try to bear this responsibility with rigour, obviously respecting freedom of expression, but knowing that politics, ladies and gentlemen, is not an immediate issue. Politics is not about seeing trees, politics is about seeing the forest, looking away, and tending to the ambitious goals that are those that citizens understand and those who participate in elections. The small fight, the daily struggle of the division of interests, of the distribution of condoms or of the small letter, is probably not what comes most directly to the citizens. And with that vision and that perspective, I reiterate the position of our group in this bill. I heard some voice that was already ahead of time what the Socialist Party's position will be in each of the five projects that will be discussed in this plenary. I have to say that if you're wrong, so I'm in my head, about 80%. But in the end, you don't have to know what we're going to do either. In any case, that is our position, and in this matter – straight – we will maintain a constructive abstention position. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u52	About the amendments of the other groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u53	I showed up for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u54	Yes, please. I didn't understand him. Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you will understand, when it comes to summer and love stories, that I must necessarily remember our founding president, to whom the expression that politics makes strange bedmates is attributed. And, said this, I can assure you that my group when you go to bed with someone goes with proper precautions, it won't be, and that's why we lay down according to who. [[Laughter]] Now, I would like to comment on the amendments that have been tabled – if Mr Fajardo, who has until now been quite contained in his comments, allow me to. Office of budgetary control. We have argued several times in this House that it is an invention by the United States, where, as it is well known, the Executive is not controlled by the Legislative. What we are going to put into the Rules of Procedure, the reform of the Rules of Procedure, that the members of the Government come to a parliamentary committee to explain the budget, that does not happen in the United States Congress, that does not happen there. So Congress, if it strengthens its control capacity, which won't even be able to question the government about how the budget is running, then it will create an office that compensates for the power of the famous budget office of the president. So it's an element that is alien to our system, and not so continental tradition is precisely to strengthen the courts of account, as is the case with what we do in this law. That's why it seems to us that we can't turn into a budgetary control office when just in this law what we're doing is that the Board of Auditors becomes the main advisory body on the economic and financial matters of the House. With regard to counsellors, suspension or loss of counsellor status. Currently – and so on in the new law – it is exactly the same as the judges for the exercise of the judicial function. I understand that a case that comes out in the newspapers can walk to that mess, the one that's brought here, the one that's talking about, the one that's giving himself to the person. I understand it perfectly. But what is true is that the same thing that happens to a judge who is exercising the title of a criminal, civil, administrative judge, is exactly the same as the Board of Auditors. I think what's good for the judges is good for the members of the Board of Auditors. And so you have to know what it's like to make noise with what walnuts are, that that person is absolutely in a regular situation, and so if you ever have to monitor something related to the Cell Foundation, because you'll have to abstain, as the Impon law and the law marks. What is true is that, if that person comes to resign, we wouldn't have reports from the Board of Auditors this year, as the chief advisor has made clear, but you, who likes that institutions don't work, I understand that they're for that job. Our obligation is just the opposite: to make institutions work. Regarding the age limit, it was questioned by several of the interveners. He's also exactly like the magistrates emeritus of the Supreme Court: 72 years. They could be more, they could be less, but there is a reference – I insist –, a parallelism with which the judiciary makes. In relation to discretionary cessation, it is impossible. With the rule that we adopt today, the staff who is performing the functions of the Board of Auditors cannot be removed from their function. Greater guarantee of stability in employment, hard to find. And finally, you, Mr. Jorquera, say that the choice mechanism has not been applied. The choice mechanism has been applied, which, thanks to the law you're not voting, we're going to apply from now on. You recognize improvements. I suppose this will be one of those that you recognize, but the fact is that you have not been in favour of this improvement, and we are in favor of this improvement, and certainly, if there are others in the future, because we will talk and try to introduce them. The requirements to be members of the Board of Auditors. Some of the administration's senior officials have a clear political nuance and others have a clear technical nuance in all public administrations. So the two-year requirement has to do with the inability to self-tax accounts when they held the position of public office, and we extend it in six years. Some groups criticized him for giving up political activity. I believe that a balance has been sought that is reasonable: six years for those who have a political commitment through management, to be part of the leadership of political parties, trade unions and business organizations, and two years, which is the period of time that, if the Board of Auditors works, usually passes between the supervision of management and the intervention of the Board of Auditors itself. With regard to the Bloc, you know that, well, the control of the parties, in fact, is done by the Court of Auditors. I think it's not bad. Just like tax fraud is best pursued if all the information on an entrepreneur's financial operations is centralized in one place, I think it's good for transparency and the trust of the citizen that there is a controlling body that also has the ability to adjust, which does not have the Board of Auditors, which centralizes all the information. And that's what we're afraid of, apart from the fact that it's a basic matter and therefore it would be unconstitutional to bring it to our law. We have confidence in the means of the Board of Auditors, in the present. We seem to be the only ones we trust in the Board of Auditors, because we know that, regardless of whether the resources of the Board of Auditors are improved, they will be able to meet the new obligations that the law sets them out for them. And we believe in the institution. The institution, by the way, is an institution of long tradition in the history of Spain, speaking with property. The Kingdom of Navarre already had a Chamber of Auditors in 1365, under King Charles II, and in the Courts of Palencia in 1313, with Peter I O cruel, who later, with John II of Castile and León, strengthened control, there was at that time a House of Auditors in Valladolid and two parallel organizations: one that managed the king's money, another that controlled how the king's money was managed. Today in Galicia, for the first time in 1990, the People's Party was curiously when the Galician Board of Auditors came into operation, was launched by most of the people who then had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u57	...in his first term of office, the Government of Manuel Fraga. And today, again, it seems that we will be alone in strengthening our trust in the external court in control of the autonomous public accounts of the Council of Auditors of Galicia. I regret – yet I thank you – the words of recognition of the improvement of the text in relation to the initially recorded one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u58	Thank you, Mr. Puy. We move on to the debate and vote of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on roads in Galicia. Debates and votes of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on roads in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u59	Amendments have been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Galician Alternative Group and the Galician Socialist Parliamentary Group. The president of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Freire, presented the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u60	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The decision of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services is presented to the plenary on the proposal for a law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on roads in Galicia. The bill amending the previous Galician road law, submitted by the Galician People's Group, was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 12 March 2015. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 17 March 2015, admitted to this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. Following its consideration at its plenary meeting on 14 April, the Bureau, at its meeting on 21 April, once heard the Speaker's Meeting, agreed to its proceedings by the 2nd Committee of Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulated, which ended on 29 May with the formulation of a total of 80 amendments, eleven of which correspond to the Joint Group, five to the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, fourteen to the Group of the Alternative Galician Left, 47 to the Group of Galician Socialists and three to the Group of Galician People's Group. On the other hand, the presentation designated at the session of Commission 2 of Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, on June 3, is composed of the following rapporteurs: Don Jesús Goldar Güimil, of the Galician People's Group; Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, of the Galician Socialists Group; Mr Antón Sánchez García, of the Alternative Left Galega Group; Ms Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, and Mrs Consuel Martínez García, of the Mixed Group. After the constitutive session on 5 June, at the next two meetings the report was finished on 15 July, and then the Committee on Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at the session on 11 June, adopted by the majority its dictation, incorporating into the text of the bill a total of five amendments, one of them negotiated. Finally, it is stressed that the articulated text of the dictame issued consists, on the one hand, of the explanatory statement; on the other hand, of a single article divided into 39 paragraphs; and on the other, of three last provisions, relating to the legislative delegation, for the elaboration of a consolidated text on roads, as well as the entry into force of this law, if any, which will take effect on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. At this point, it is necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote on the amendments that have been maintained and the Commission's ruling. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u61	Thank you, Mr. Freire. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u62	Thank you, President. In the debate on the consideration of this bill, I was wondering what it would bring back the reform bill we are talking about today. Essentially, in the scandalous, as far as the prevention of corruption is concerned, nothing. Of the specific changes proposed in the single article of the bill, in which it refers to article 8 of the Law of 2013, the rural crossings are deleted without specifying the reason. What refers to Article 9.1, what is the difference in the new wording? Well, the only difference is that instead of putting it in, it's a match. As referred to in Article 9.6, there is no change that really justifies this bill unless it establishes that the entry into force is the day following publication in the CEO; that is, there is no change that really justifies this bill. I mentioned the six proposals for articles 8 and 9 just to illustrate that the bill is above all a correction of errors and propaganda to do what is done; taking advantage of that, yes, to make the rural cores of the law disappear and seek advantages for the concessionaires that the confident People's Party already has in its head. Amendments relating to road safety have been rejected. Amendments tabled on the basis of a long debate in the non-permanent Committee on Road Safety. Amendments tabled on the basis of those conclusions and which were not accepted by the People's Party alone, which led me to ask myself why the Security Commission was served would be used if the People's Party had already decided not to implement any of the conclusions reached in that committee. So Amendments 1, 2 and 5 talked about security measures; Amendment No 1 I suppose it was rejected because it asked for something so extravagant that urban truces contain measures that guarantee the mobility and safety of pedestrians. Amendment No 3 states that in the proceedings on existing roads, or in the planning of news, if you had taken into account the construction of bicycles, something which the People's Party refuses to do. We have talked in this Parliament, in the Committee on Road Safety, about the danger people have when they travel on two-wheeled vehicles and mainly on bicycles. However, all the amendments that would be directed precisely to build those bike lanes or to improve the safety of two-wheeled vehicles, both on existing roads and their construction on new roads. Amendment No. 4, which only seeks to force the elimination of structural barriers, was also rejected by the People's Party. Other amendments which were rejected were Amendment No 6, which sought the abolition of the robbery set out in the amendment to Article 28.3 and which sought to expropriate on the basis of possible soil speculation. An absolute legal insecurity for those people who are expropriated from their lands. Amendment No 7, to the deletion of Article 31 of the Act, which provides for the possibility of imposing fees which may be applied to persons who use the routes, as set out in Article 34.1. Or communication in our country. We're at the extreme, getting out of Galicia is one more problem, and we're dealing with those rates that the People's Party continues to insist on putting on the law. Amendment No 8 also meant or intended something as incredible as the underground steps have the minimum height for the new special cargo vehicles. I don't know why you don't pick up the minimum height, when then, at least in the city of Vigo, where we have a strong metallurgical industry, special trucks have real problems moving through different points of the city. It was also rejected and we kept Amendment No nine, in which something was asked as simple as information posters for those indicating business areas. The amendment which is intended in the proposed law considers a sign indicative of those who are on the company's ground, but there is no mention of industrial polygons. I believe it is important that they are signaled, and I believe that they should be valued, favoured and improved in the location of these business areas. Amendment No. 11 has also been rejected, which we maintain. And the explanatory statement, which intended to introduce a text as feared as the following: incorporating measures that guarantee mobility for all people and greater road safety, both for travellers and for cyclists, motor vehicle occupants and wild fauna. This amendment has been rejected without explanation, because these are really the debates in this Parliament. It's said no, but it doesn't argue why not, because the law doesn't include any improvement, no improvement, no measure, no commitment, to ensure greater security of people and vehicles on our roads. In short, a bill that is pure propaganda and that, apart from the campaigns on road safety, not only comes new to achieve greater security on our roads, but also that all the amendments that affected this issue have been rejected. We therefore regret that once again the People's Party loses the opportunity to take action in something so serious, so tremendously serious, such as protecting the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks and all the people who travel, as pawns or drivers, by our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. As has already been said in the wording of this bill, what we are debating is the amendment that the People's Party introduced to the Road Law. I think it's important to remember that this is a road law that has been sold to us as the thousand wonders, that from every point of view was an undamaged law, but it turns out that, two years later, the People's Party itself has to amend because it seems to be no longer a law that is so correct from the point of view or technical. We had already said and denounced at that time that the problem with that law was that it was a neoliberal law, a privatization law, a law that introduced the possibility that, if the Government wanted, it could charge a fee to all users and users of roads, which means a barrier that from our point of view is not acceptable, neither with crisis nor with economic crisis, and above all that it trusted, or still betting, for a model that is a failed model, which makes water everywhere, such as those privatizations of roads, both in the construction phase and in the management phase. So for us this was a law that began from absolutely ideological criteria, that what you were looking for was like benefiting from a business in which many, or some, constructors do business at the cost of building or managing public infrastructures, but that you didn't have a social vision, you didn't have a Greek vision or a modern view of which must be the priorities in road management. We, from BNG, believe that a new law is necessary, but we believe that this change really does not bring anything. And more so, what makes it obvious is that the Law of roads that we now have in force is a real chapuza, and we believe that a chapuza doesn't solve itself with another chapuza, which is necessary a very important legislative change in road matters, which has to change the paradigm and focus with which it has been managed in recent years by the People's Party. From the BNG's point of view, a change is needed which is affixed by the public management of roads, which is a priority for road safety, and also for the role of territorial and social vertebration that must fulfil our infrastructures. In this sense, we believe, of course, that roads must be public; that we must open a debate not only on the need not to continue with that model, but on the rescue for the public domain of those privatized infrastructures, because many of these privatizations are putting on a very important scourge for the economic and social development of our country, as is the case with AP-9. We have discussed it and we will continue to bring initiatives to this House, because it cannot be that this highway, which is vertebral and which communicates the most populated area and with more economic activity, has a barrier of this kind so important to the mobility of our country, from the point of view of people and from the point of view of economic activity. We also understand that it is essential to question this public-private model; and the Board of Auditors, of which we are all talking here in those reports to which they are not heeded, then it says that this model is inadmissible. Moreover, in one of the controls that he made of the latest prosecutions by the People's Party on the privatization of the construction of highways, he said it was much more serious for the public to do it through private channels. We're also seeing how in other concessions what the Galician Board has done at this time was to go out to rescue the dealers, because there's always money there when it comes to the companies of friends of the People's Party. Of course, a whole paradigm of a failed model and a model that, from our point of view, re-enters into a policy that legally allows the looting of public funds. We also understand that when we talk about roads and infrastructure, one of the key priorities must be road safety. There's a great drama behind the insecurity problems in our country, and all of us here know very well that in Galicia we have large security problems that would travel in many areas. And we're also showing here today our concern about data on the year 2014, some data that tells us that Galicia is among the ten communities where traffic victims have increased. There was also a problem, the downward trend in recent years has been broken; we are the second community where the number of fatal victims has increased most. And they also tell us that most of these accidents were on conventional roads at a very high percentage in our country. While in the rest of the state around 80% of fatal accidents occur on conventional roads, in the case of German, this percentage rises to 90%. There is a very serious problem there, and it is for us to find out how in this situation there is no real response from the Public Service, neither from the point of view of political action nor from the point of view of security would be the priority that the Administration has to have right now. So here we also have another very important ejacism of legislation, and above all a problem that we have also expressed here on multiple occasions, which makes manifest how to have competences important. We believe that many of the problems in Galicia have to do with the kind of network that we have, with the circumstances of our own country, and that we need a policy of our own. But when we claim this, the People's Party and the Socialist Party always deny us these rights in Madrid. And we also see how those communities that have traffic skills greatly improve their position. So having competence, and exercising it from the reality of the country itself, is useful when we have a government that really prioritizes or understands that the action to govern is something more than giving press headlines, and that is really responding to our needs in this matter. And finally, for us, it would be necessary to have a road law that also had as its centre of action the need for the infrastructure that is put in place to have a clear role of social vertebration, territorial vertebration, and justification, from the point of view of mobility, and the defence of another more sustainable model, which also prioritizes what environmental controls are, the protection of our cultural spaces, all the wealth in that sense our country has. None of this is clearly in the project, in the bill presented by the Popular Group. And we believe that – as I said at first – really the only thing that is making manifest is how road law is a law that does not serve, a law that even from the most basic point of view fails. Because – in this case a political group – a little at the start of what the council decided, which also didn't justify why it hasn't been presented since the Galician Council, we suppose that because they didn't want to go through all the control procedures and they wanted to do it in a much faster way, without much knowledge, for us what makes it clear is the legal insecurity and the lack of rigour with which it is legislating from this government. We're presenting a series of amendments that they want to empty out of content this law, because we understand it doesn't make any sense. We had a debate about globality two years ago, in which we ourselves were talking about the problems of legal insecurity that this text had. You're out the back door trying to solve some of these problems. We believe that they do not give you an accurate solution, and that – even if it is with your actions and not with your words – as they recognize the serious problems that this law has, the logic would be to make a new legislation on roads that has really responded to the challenges that we have as a country, and that it is not what the People's Group presents to us today, that – as we say – reinvests in a privatization model, in a failed model and in a model that does not address the main problems that the Greek society has, which, of course, is not just to expropriate the cheapest lands or continue to pay fees that you continue to contemplate in this legislation. We believe that priorities should be the rescue of direct public management of our infrastructure, the removal of that type of fees we will see in the future as – if we continue to govern the PP – they will be applied, just as other restrictive measures are being applied, and really make a strong bet on the road safety in our country, which we believe has already taken over so many decades, covering too many lives and too many sufferings of many people. So we keep all our amendments, that in practice what they ask the PP is that it's rational and that it doesn't go ahead with patches that only make it worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u66	Good afternoon, in the midst of this very lively atmosphere. Let's talk about roads. Rubao, FFC, OHL, Sacyr, Copasa, Assignation, Sando, Nexo, Aldesa and a long etc., what do these companies have in common? They are dedicated to building infrastructure, they are donors of the People's Party and they were part of the People's Party's Infrastructure Commission. Would it not be a commission that was not yet established, in which were representatives of the infrastructure companies and experts in political infrastructures of the People's Party? No, there was Mr. Lapuerta, the manager, and the treasurer Bárcenas. I don't know if at the very best of the versions that the People's Party is trying to handle, which says that all those millions in Switzerland are from Mr. Basel nothing more, are not from the irregular funding of the entire People's Party throughout all the years, since it was founded practically, if in that kind version the People's Party knew nothing, I didn't know that Mr. Basel was diverting more than 50 million euros to Switzerland. But surely it would not be known – we will not know – that entrepreneurs who build the infrastructure and hire the Administration were also those who designed the infrastructure policies of the People's Party, because all these companies between 2001 and 2012 were charged with contracts worth EUR 12,000 million by governments of the People's Party, whether the state or the autonomy. I don't know if criminally it'll be easy to verify the relationship of one thing to another, but the truth is that it sings quite a bit. This is one of the keys to road legislation, and it's one of the keys to this country's infrastructure policy, which I'll talk about later. On the quality of the work of the Government of Galicia in the drafting of the law passed in July 2013 the words are already answered. A year after it had been approved, with all the praises by the People's Party, which said it was historic – a historic advance necessary to update the legislation – because a year later, 41 changes must be made to Mr. Agustín Hernández. In addition to the Louvances, that contempt for the amendments we tabled by the other parties. Many of the amendments we tabled at that time, some, most importantly, removing the anecdotals, are incorporated today. We've already warned you. It's a phrase I don't like to repeat, but we've already warned you. Galicia, in a year and a half, hasn't changed the way they need to change 41 issues of this law. Therefore, it shows a chapuza more than one Government of the Galician Union who has arrived here with a reputation as good manager, but that the facts do not testify to it that way. Well, Law 8/2013 was a continuous law that deepened the model developed over the past twenty years; which had a greater impact on public-private collaboration, that business for the private and that bad business for the public, since with respect to the previous law of 94, it was considered private financing as something exceptional, and it became already a habit. The possibility of generalised collection of fees on all roads was also incorporated, already making the runway to the FAES documents, saying that it is necessary to pay for the use of all roads. It will arrive sooner or later, depending on the social response, but there's nothing more to go to the FAES documents to know what the People's Party is going to do in the following years; and in this case FAES defends the generalization of fees. They also got into Galician road law. On the other hand, it did not introduce any notable or not noteworthy news in rationalizing investment in infrastructure, environmental concerns, energy consumption, climate change, landscape care or road safety; that was totally secondary to the Galician People's Party. There is no noteworthy novelty that guarantees greater rationality in infrastructure spending. The Galician People's Party continues to wager for waste in infrastructures, for irrationality, for giving business to certain companies in the sector, above the general interest and above the need for that change of production model so shaky and so poorly practised. Of course, today I'm going to be the devil's lawyer, and the Galician People's Party has already passed even on the left of their travel partners. We shall see, the report of the European Commission on the economic stability of the Kingdom of Spain, of the end of 2012, said so. In Spain, the traditional transport infrastructure deficit has already been tackled to a large extent. The wide network of highways, high-speed rail lines, airports, ports also involves high maintenance costs and a high level of debt service and payment of public-private association services. At the same time, the network lacks interoperable interconnections with other member states and lacks integration between modes of transport, ports and railways, airport facilities and high-speed rail lines, multimodal platforms, railway corridors. That's why it's essential to perform a transparent cost-benefit analysis for each of the infrastructure projects. The Kingdom of Spain must limit its investment in infrastructure to projects for which there is real demand and which are affordable in view of the high cost of public funds opportunity. They do not say so by the anti-Galga de Left Alternative, the European Commission. I'll have to quote you here! Andrés Precedo Ledo, a geographer who specializes in territorial planning and high office in the governments of Fraga, he has said that – you eat, you will understand this language – "The highway is a dispersed urbanization, generating strong emissions of CO2 and high energy consumption. They're solutions from the past." It regrets the delay in the deployment of intermodality and the metropolitan railway or tram networks, while we continue building highways that, in addition to impacting the landscape, project an obsolete model. As long as I+D+i is released, health or education, it continues to waste on highways as if we were rich. The Greek Economic Forum proposes, among its economic proposals for Galicia, a study cost benefit for infrastructures of more than 5 million euros of budget, but none of this takes into account the People's Party, and it does not appear in the law that should govern on the Greek roads of the coming years. But it's even more – it's still more serious – Ana Pastor and the Central Government, who is working on a road bill, but it introduces some of the concepts that we defended in our amendments and that the People's Party rejected us. It is clear that Mrs. Ana Pastor will continue to defend the same model, but even Mrs. Ana Pastor and the Government of the People's Party of the State have to make up their policies and at least introduce into the law concepts that are already generally accepted in society. It says, for example, in the explanatory statement of the draft law: The obligation to solve the problems that create the growing need for greater mobility, occupying the least possible territory, which determines the priority of optimizing the service provided by the existing infrastructure before building new roads. None of this appears in the Galician Road Law. He also believes, for the first time, that we introduce an amendment, which says: "The second section refers to programmes, studies and road projects, introducing pioneering measures in our legal order of public works, such as the obligation to carry out cost-benefit analyses in the most relevant actions, in line with the policy trends of other countries and international organizations and in order to achieve greater efficiency of public investment", or the State road project. And now there comes a amendment, rejected by the People's Party, proposed by Alternative Galga de Left: "The declaration of public utility will be justified through a specific cost-benefit study that takes into account economic, social, environmental, landscape and opportunity costs, defining them regulatoryly. The report shall be submitted to public information, transparency and democratic impulse and shall be approved by the competent road councillor; rejected by the People's Party. And it's obvious that the People's Party is not going to frame in a law something that's not actually doing, and I'm just setting an example, so that they can see that as soon as there's money again, in addition to that they've never stopped wasting on infrastructures in a country that has a square mile across the tallest of Europe, very close to Germany, with many more kilometres per inhabitant than Germany and that any other country in Europe, we're there at the expense of infrastructures, whose generation of wealth has never been tested with any reliable data, which is only business for these companies that I mentioned before, because things happen like, for example, our AP-9, which is not ours. In 1984 he became a member of the National Highway Company, which is rescued when he was in bankruptcy – if, Mr. Castineiras, it is necessary to climb up, Mr. Puy has already returned to Pedro El Cruel, not so much – with public money. In 2003, when it was healthy, it was sold by that Council of Ministers whose 80% of ministers are charged, sold by 1,900 million euros to Sacyr Vallehermoso. Because of problems in their accounts, Sacyr Vallehermoso, five years later, without spending a euro on cement, sells its motorways, which cost him 1,900 million euros, and sells Citigroup for 7,9 billion euros. That's a good business, that's a friend price. Well, "private management" -- between quotes -- makes the fees rise and become the most expensive highway in the state, we pay it over all the Greeks that we circulate through it and the Galicians. Well now it turns out that the People's Party has announced eleven works on this AP-9 with an budget, which will be executed imminently, of 312 million euros, among which is the extension of Rande, which we will also pay among all the Greeks and the Greeks. And on the other hand, I'm thinking of doing a free highway parallel to this AP-9. Free, like that free, free, if we're all going to pay for it. What freeness? Of what? One more competition for AP-9, which is already losing users and nothing happens; if we lose users, we'll all pay, too, we're already doing it, with public money that we all pay, the competition for AP-9, which we'll have to rescue if it goes wrong, in addition to the competition already from the Atlantic train axis, doesn't take anything into account. Because, in total, besides, the numbers of traffic forecast of users are systematically inflated by successive governments, many cars will always walk through the bridge of Rande, by the highway of the Coast of Death, by the highway of Santiago-Dozon, by everyone, never meet the data of forecast of users. And this is the model that is supported by this new legislation. Not a single measure dedicated to rationalizing spending, not a single measure dedicated to reducing mobility, not a single measure to take account of the fight against climate change, where Galicia continues to have negative numbers all the time. And, above all, they are not even able to fix the legal chapuza that we have already warned them in article 28, that – we say in the debate, they laugh at us – the State has brought about a resource of unconstitutionality to change it and now they come with a wording that I suppose will be in agreement with the state but will also be causing legal insecurity. Article 28: expropriate urbanized soils, at the price of rural soil, and give advantage to the owner of the soil. That, with the signing of an agreement, just when the Land Law was approved to expropriate on the basis of the factual situation of the ground. How will a rural one that is already urbanized be valued? Let me explain, let me explain, because I think this is going to be a source of legal insecurity, just what you assumed when you passed the law, to guarantee legal security.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u67	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u68	On the contrary, it will guarantee legal insecurity. In short, and because I don't have much time left, it's a bad patch for a bad law, it's not a project for the next twenty years that this country needs, and this is certainly not an electoral speech, but, as soon as the government of this country changes, it has to be changed immediately. This law is obsolete, even for the cannons on the right you represent; even for you, this law is backward. So we kept our amendments and kept our position against this legal chapuza. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Group. You have the word Mr. Raúl Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. We are attending a debate of the very peculiar Galician Road Law, and we are going to be voting on an act of pride and loneliness of the People's Group with the only substantive argument and in this way that will be the numerical result of the vote. That was the argument of the People's Party when you passed the bill, and that will be the argument again when you pass this bill. And we think it hurts the People's Party to equate most absolute with truth or absolute reason. Law 8/2013, of June 28th, of roads in Galicia, is an exclusive law of the People's Party by the will of the same People's Party, and the amended law that will be passed today, tomorrow, will also be an exclusive law of the People's Party. Both contain exactly the same mistakes and vices. In the discussion of taking into account the bill the spokesperson of the Popular Group, Mr. Gómez Alonso, began his intervention with the following words – intercommitted –: "As an illustrious former Territorial Policy Advisor of the Galician Union, the late Mr. Cook Crespo, the infrastructures are for the patients and also for the tenaces." And he continued, "Our assessment of the 1994 Road Law is very positive, since, after more than 20 years since its entry into force, it has been shown to be an effective tool for these twenty years, only the original text of the 1994 Road Law, as I say, the Cooking Law, had to be amended on time. I'm sorry that Mr. Gómez Alonso is not here today, but each one is responsible for what he says and - let's say - is a slave to his words and owner of his silence. Anyway, as you made substantial contributions in that debate, I'm going to allow myself to do some review of them. Our group has the reasonable objective and objective of whether its manifestations of the 1994 Road Law of Mr. Cuisine – there have been some need for timely changes during these twenty years of vigency – in addition to the context and the beginning of the debate on the consideration of the Bill by which Law 8/2013, of June 28, with one year and five months of vigency, are a posthumous tribute to Mr. Cuisine on the eves of the fall of Lalin or an open, conscious or unconscious criticism, to the government official of the Road Law, who with less than one year and a half of life already needs a substantial modification in the form of a bill to keep it alive. Maybe the adjective was in the double direction, in the double direction. In any case, I recognize Mr. Alonso's political smell, his survival instinct, for making this speech one month from the local elections on May 24. He nailed it in sight of the election results of Lalin and Santiago, but also highlighted the fiasco of the road law of 2013. It is therefore necessary to link this amendment proposal to the history of Law 8/2013. It must be remembered that Law 8/2013, dated June 28, was presented as a bill and proved to be passed on June 25, 2013 with the only votes of the People's Party. So Mr. Hernández had presented the bill with the qualifications of a modern, effective law, solving the new needs. We found ourselves with a bill that was only generous in the legislative text. We have shown from the Socialist Group our absolute discrepancy with the articulation of the bill. At this point we were sure it was a smoke curtain to cover the auctioning blackout, the paralytics of the counseling and even the interinence of it. It was a bill aimed at applying new rates, increasing the counts of sanctions, reducing expropriations. For this reason, we tabled an amendment to the entire Galician Road Law Project containing previous elements and others. For example, he lacked the necessary vision of the road system as a whole, showed a clear insufficiency in relation to the necessary coordination between road administrations, reflected a lack of ambition and lack of conformity with the territorial model, did not advance in road safety, nor in environmental protection or in respect of heritage, did not guarantee a proper relationship between road and urban instruments. Finally, it turned out to be a Law of roads other than the particularities of Galicia. Unfortunately, the People's Group, in its pride, rejected the unanimous request of all opposition groups to return the text and continued its processing. At this stage, the Socialist Group wanted to once again certify the need for a new Road Law and the commitment to make contributions to improve the text that came to us. That is why we provide 123 amendments to the articulated –74 addition, 22 modification and 27 suppression –. The vanity of the People's Party, in the form of a roll in the vote, has again clearly reflected its contempt for socialist approaches. He accepted 6 amendments from the Socialist Group, 4.87%. That's why we said that the People's Group maintained an immobilist position as a result of pre-emption of the contents of the new Road Law, and on June 25, 2013, the People's Group validated with its only votes the Government's bill in Law 8/2013, of June 28, of Galicia's roads. The Socialist Group, in view of the intransigence of the People's Party, qualified this law as insensitive to the territory, with road safety and heritage, a new law that opened the possibility of new charges, increased the content of sanctions and prepared expropriations according to the People's Party; a new law that did not reflect Galicia's particularities, such as climateology or population dispersion; a new law loaded with legal insecurity and therefore difficult to implement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as many other times, was not a problem of communicating better, but of a problem of social and parliamentary communication, of giving courage to foreign opinions and contributions, of not feeling the absolute owners of the truth. The new Road Law came into force on October 13, 2013, and on March 12, 2015, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group introduced a bill amending Law 8/2013, of June 28, of Galician roads, that is, one year and five months in mortal language or 516 days in the language of Mr. Baltar Blanco. The People's Parliamentary Group moves on to itself by shortening the life of this law, and it does so by failing to listen. Was Mr. Alonso suggesting anything when he highlighted the vigil nearly 20 years of Mr. Cook's 1994 Road Law without just changes? Is this a game, therefore, of strengths and weaknesses? Because the truth is that this weak law has had a political author, Mr Hernández, former advisor, a material author, Mrs Vázquez, current adviser at this time and Director of Infrastructure and recognized participate in the bill of those moments, and the weakness of this law sets out the People's Group itself by presenting 41 proposals for amendments affecting 22 articles of the 76 law 8/2013 and several provisions; 41 proposals for amendments by the People's Group that show the weakness of the law adopted by the People's Group by reflecting the objectives it intends: to exploit more efficiently the public domain by road according to Galicia's particularities, to encourage the development of own technical legislation, to facilitate the activities of the municipalities, to better protect the public domain, to simplify and expedite administrative procedures, to strengthen legal security; all that we will report to the opposition groups. In summarizing, it is acknowledged late, as we put forward opposition groups, which were of difficult application, which did not take into account Galicia's particularities, which was not adapted to the Greek territory and which did not have legal certainty. The proposal for a law contains proposals for amending a certain transcendent, so we believe that the proposed reform should start with the Executive, to have all reports, including the legality of the various proposed provisions. And I want to quote some of these changes that are proposed and that have some relevance. The Council may lay down additional rules and instruments affecting local roads; that by regulation of the Galician Union, not by law, construction in certain areas of road protection may be permitted; that authorisations for activities in public domain areas may be extended to 30 years; that requirements for expropriations may be amended; that contraventions other than the agreed price may be allowed. They are relevant changes, pests of exceptional, future or unconditional, with a high charge of arbitrariness. From the Socialist Group we believe that this proposal to amend the Road Law is reintroduced in the same errors as the law and that, together with purely technical changes, it introduces substantial elements that sink into arbitrariness, confirming it as unusable, inexecutable and legally unsafe. In the course of the process, the Socialist Group has brought closer to the bill, and we also bring closer to this bill, 47 approaches, mostly coincident with those presented in the bill and which seek to improve the law in the most inconsistent aspects: conceptual aspects, coordination between administrations, attention to the peculiarities of Greece, progress in participation and control, improvements in road safety...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u71	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u72	...to safeguard respect for the environment, to ensure the protection of heritage, to ensure legal security and the rights of the administration and the administration itself. We fear these good intentions will clash with the People's Party front. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Goldar Güimil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, very late for all. We have begun with this debate today the last phase of the parliamentary journey of the bill that was urged by the group that I have the honour to represent at this moment. With it, as we know, we intend to amend Law 8/2013, of June 28, of Galicia's roads, after the preliminary approval of the corresponding dictation at the 2nd Commission meeting last June. On 14 April this same year, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the debate in full of the consideration of this legal text, we pointed out that both progress in road engineering and the need to resort to new instruments to finance the execution of infrastructures made certain timely changes to the original text of the 1994 Law necessary. The entry into force of the Public Sector Contracts Act, the Land Management Act or the very creation of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency in 2011 were co-adjuvant elements for the current Government to decide to present a new road legislation, and in this way was approved by vegent Law 8/2013. Without the courage to reproduce in its integrity, although in its essence, the debate that took place last April, it is obliged to recall, as we did then, that this normative text was prepared by the very technicians of the Directorate-General for Infrastructure and submitted to the hearing of the principal administrations, as well as that of the organizations and associations associated with road mobility. The result of this hearing and the arrivals received, the new rule was clearer, more modern and more efficient, as we had occasion to explain in that preliminary debate. But we also said – and we reiterate again today – that this parliamentary group has considered it appropriate to introduce certain improvements in the nuance, clarifying and improving, as is the obligation of all legislative power, ultimately, the legal text adopted by the plenary of this House of representation on 25 June 2013. I appeal once again, ladies and gentlemen, after having done so already in the previous debates of the motion and in the committee, to your courtesy, thanking you for allowing me again to underline the main objectives which this parliamentary group pursues with the introduction of this bill. We intend to gain the reinforcement of legal security for the Galicians and for the Greeks by providing certain articles of the Galician Road Law with a drafting to clarify their meaning and avoid prejudicial interpretations for citizens. We also seek to simplify and speed up administrative procedures, and we are sure that we will achieve the exploitation more efficiently of the road public domain by improving the compatibility of this domain's protection with the economic activity supported by the Galician roads. It is therefore this law, with the amendments we propose, an eminently technical standard that optimizes and facilitates the management of our roads, thus developing the mandate contained in Article 148(1), (5) of our Constitution and also in line with Article 27.8 of the Galician Autonomy Statute. Since then, if it has finally been adopted in this plenary meeting, we shall have a legal text to improve the application of its contents, as this group wishes and wishes and once it comes into force the following day of its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already had occasion to point out on different occasions, all those issues that were arising from the application of the 2013 rule that were likely to be improved are being implemented in this bill. It's not just a duty, as I've already said, but it's also an obligation of groups that make up legislative power to do so. In this way, this parliamentary group is firmly convinced that this legal amendment will facilitate the development of its own technical legislation which will result in the optimization and management of the Greek roads, for example, in the design of accesses, paths or firms adapted to our territorial reality. They know perfectly well all of their lordships, as legislators who are and because of their experience, that the application of state legislation causes major obstacles to the development of economic activity, and in particular in this area of competence on the roads of our territory. In this way, as we have already mentioned, he is being denounced by mayors of all political colors when they process in their respective municipalities requests, for example, for the installation of gas stations or businesses close to the roads of our community. They demand, in the defence of legitimate interests of their municipalities, that they provide a proper regulation that allows them to leave these requests or that they facilitate the authorization to install markers, information boxes or temporary installations such as terraces, which, as you know, acquires special relevance in urban crossings. This rule also seeks, ladies and gentlemen, to better protect the street public domain, including as a violation of the surrounding vegetation, hindering impunity in the case of infringements committed by legal persons, in order to identify their subsidiary officials as well and assume the consequences of their actions. It also simplifies, ladies and gentlemen, the updating of road catalogues and road inventories and fosters the voluntary restoration of the altered physical reality in the sanctioning procedures, making this a more evident advantage for the Greeks and the Greeks. Thus, we intend to approve the increase in the percentage of the reduction in sanctions up to 90% of their amount in cases of voluntary repossession of road legality when no public domain damage is caused or road safety is put at risk. This circumstance will always happen when what is legally responsible meets the resolution of paralysing or definitive suspension of uses and restores the altered physical reality before the resolution of the sanctioning file. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group intends to enhance the dissuasive nature of the road law sanctions regime and that this calls for respect for road legality. Another important aspect that we want to reinforce with the introduction of this bill is that of legal security for citizenship, despite the criticisms made here by the other spokesmen of the opposition. For this, some articles are reworded or completed, so their content is clearer. This affects, for example, the definitions of walking or crossing for the purposes of final approval of road projects and fore-projects, the consideration of urban use in expropriatory files, the permissible uses or administrative decentralization in road management, all this – I insist – as we have already announced and that it is no longer worth remembering here in this plenary debate today. The greater abundance, it is now necessary to underline, ladies and gentlemen, that, in parallel to this amendment of the relevant text of the Galician Road Law, its regulatory development is being processed through the draft decree so that the future general road regulation of Galicia will be approved. Law and regulation will form a solid regulatory block that will undoubtedly bring value added to the management of the roads of autonomous and local ownership and greater legal certainty for the users of our routes. The previous regulation will often develop all the requirements of the Road Law and will already be adapted to the changes that will be made with this bill, since this is already in charge of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. In particular, and for its information, the regulation will need and expand the concepts used in the law, introduce the definition of the new necessary auxiliary concepts and develop with precision all the procedures of the various documents provided for road management, such as, inter alia, the class changes and ownership thereof, the processing of plans, studies and projects, the planning reports, the delimitation of urban tracts, the extraordinary reduction of the construction limit line or authorisations, sanctions and the protection of road legality. I will now stress, because of its importance, the detailed regulation that will contain the new regulation of the conditions of various road authorisations in relation to constructions, accesses, closures, pipelines, air-tightness etc. This will allow us, in our judgment, to object to its grant by reducing the wide margin of discretion to which the supplementary application, so far, of the much less precise general regulation of state roads adopted by Decree 1812/94, which was even before the repealed Law 4/94, of roads in Galicia. I shall now briefly refer to the position of our parliamentary group in the light of the amendments which the Socialist Group holds, which we have at least had occasion to try to deal with some of its proposals, and I will leave for the second turn of the intervention to explain the rejection of the other parliamentary groups. During the work of the motion, proposals for an alternative wording were offered to the Socialist Group, accepting that referred to in paragraph 43 and rejecting that referred to in paragraph 1, during the debate of the committee, which drew up the dictation, and then directly assuming in its own motion Amendment No 47 of deletion. With regard to Amendment No 1, in which the amendment to Article 5(2) of the Act was proposed, the People's Parliamentary Group understood that the proposal did not incorporate the necessary reference to which certain functional elements may also have footwear, which is also important for determining the position of the boundary line in their environment. This is the case, for example, of service routes, service areas or rest areas, conservation centres, etc. That's why this parliamentary group has offered a drafting of the definition of more direct footwear, without needing to incorporate a list of the different elements that can count on it. In this way we proposed to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Fernández, to accept the amendment presented by negotiating it with an alternative wording, since that of the Socialists was more direct than that of the bill, and this is also correct. However, despite the willingness to accept his thesis, it was not taken into account by the socialist rapporteur. I will leave for the second round of speeches to justify our position on the amendments of the other parliamentary groups and their rejection. Nothing else for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u75	Thank you. The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u76	Well, as I said, I will vote against this bill, because I believe that the only thing that seeks is to give the concessionaires of public works, to generate legal insecurity for landowners, to renounce their commitment to road safety, does not cohesive the territory and, as far as the People's Party says, does not optimize the Greek roads. Why doesn't Galicia drop the number of serious fatal accidents on our roads, but, on the contrary, they increase? How are they able to bring here first a draft of Galician road law and in a year, a little later, bring in the modification of that bill, and never again consider introducing measures that improve the road safety of our country, which cohesive our country? Are you aware that in much of the countryside of our country there are no sidewalks, no sidewalks, nothing, people have to walk the road at night and that the recommendation that the Government make to you is that they use vests or bright or phosphorous signs for vehicles to look at them? Is that all the security assurance that the German Government gives to the Greeks and to the Greeks so they can travel around our country? There's no mention of removing those deadly discharges for people who cycle on motorcycles. It is a law, therefore, that condemns the Greeks and the Greeks to play their lives every time they stand on the street. And now the People's Party is telling us about a regulation that is being worked upon by the amendments that this bill, which has not yet been approved, sets out. I mean, the People's Party again confuses the executive and the legislative, and here with the compadre because it turns out that the People's Party already has information on the regulation in which it is working, you know what the changes will be collected in that regulation, and informs us of the opposition. That's the democracy that the People's Party understands. So I think it's a scandal and a shame this bill and the attitude of the People's Party, and I'm going to vote in favour of the amendments to the opposition. I will only ask for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 3, 7, 8 and 21 of the Socialist Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, you have the floor for Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, we just want to say that we are going to support all the amendments from the rest of the groups, in addition to nuances we could make to some who understand that in a way they are gathering debates that have already occurred when the debate on this road law was given. Of course, we also regret that the People's Party comes to this full as it came to the commission, just as it worked in the presentation, where what has been demonstrated is that this is a closed law, where there was no real capacity, or whether it was or not wanted, to be able to modify anything. And indeed we are watching what the general tone has been, except for some exception, in this Parliament. And it is that Parliament is subordinated to a government strategy, the strategy of the PP, and in practice because we see how the debates and the proposals that are made soon are actually useful for very little. In the road law we've already checked it out in its global processing. In this case, since we were faced with a partial change but that modified many articles of that law, what was being made manifest was the failure of the law itself by the hands of the PP. As much as we now want to disguise ourselves as a technical debate, this is certainly not a technical debate. I don't know if you have any aspiration to be a technocrat or to live in a technocracy. Of course, I believe in democracy. I don't think there's an elite of technicians who always have the best vision and the best decision and who's the only one who has legitimacy soon so they can exercise. There are political positions in democracy, there are political debates, and this is a political law for what he says and why he doesn't say. Because you only change some aspects where there was a problem of legal insecurity, which we say remains unresolved through this law and there will be a lot of problems in the future. And so this is a law that we understand that, if we had a serious government and a responsible government, what it would be like to start this process again. You didn't justify why you didn't counsel this law with all the public exhibition proceedings you had to do, because it's very notorious of your words that obviously all this wasn't born in the People's Group, all this change, but it was born in the council. And we'd like to hear the advisor talk about it today. Just as we'd like to hear some reflection, some idea, some word, in relation to a fundamental topic, such as everything that has to do with road safety, when we have a problem dragged over decades, a policy that has had some positive result but that in Galicia has always been very small, and some data this year 2014 that is alerting us of how a replay is happening again. And that doesn't seem to worry about you, because you come here uniquely and exclusively repeating that mantra that we're facing a technical law and that it's going to be a wonderful law that alone solves the problems that as a country we have. So we, as we don't believe in this type of theses and we believe it's a mistake what you're doing right now, because we're also going to keep the same vote that we had against this legal amendment, at the same time that we're hoping to have enough capacity to modify a model that doesn't really think about how to articulate our territory, how to make safe paths, how to improve our mobility, but instead re-enter a privatization model and a model that clearly opens the doors to be able to impose fees on the use of public roads, and we believe that this is a policy that goes against the people and we're not going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u79	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u80	Mr. Goldar said this is an eminently technical standard. It's nothing, here we're not at the school of road engineers, we're in the Parliament of a nation, and here we haven't come to propose whether the sidewalks have to be two or two meters or a half meters. At least I say that we deserve, as a country, to reflect on how we vertebrate as a country, how we organize ourselves, how we spend our public budgets and what we don't. And we should think about whether it's good that over EUR 1,500 million was spent in the period 2008-2012, without exception, both on state budgets and the Galician Union, on infrastructures, and that in the following years these budgets were never dropped by EUR 1 billion, while being cut into essential services for the population. And when the road law doesn't even take into account the basic point, which is to decide when you face the investment of an infrastructure and when we have to bear that the health advisor says that the Greek health system is not economically sustainable and instead it is sustainable to make a free highway parallel to the AP-9 that you gave to your friends. That's an outrageous shame. Just as we have to endure the question of the sustainability of the Greek university education system. For that, for the public services that are for most people, you actually pull out the calculator and you actually set criteria for judging public officials and social services with purely economic criteria. For that they do use the cost of opportunity, to remove schools in rural areas, to remove post offices in rural areas and to remove doctors from rural areas. Instead, to build infrastructures that go nowhere, infrastructures that do not connect ports, infrastructures that do not take into account intermodality, infrastructures that do not take into account the cost of opportunity, you do not remove the calculators there. This is an eminently technical standard, of course, that only in this law are you looking for technical solutions to be able to continue doing infrastructures that give business to certain companies with the least possible pitfalls. There they use every possible technique, just for that. But don't forget that, behind all this, and behind the billions of euros that at least every year are dedicated to infrastructure, there's corruption. And there's corruption that also pays and finances the People's Party. And that's what's behind all the infrastructure policy. So I said this, and since we've come to talk about technique, we're told that we're going to vote in favour of the amendments of the opposition groups, with the exception of Amendments 19, 23 and 24 of the Socialist Party of Galicia, and that we're going to oppose this frenzied amendment, which, despite being an eminently technical norm, does not even resolve very well. Because I've already told you, Mr. Goldar, and you never answer me, that seeing what will happen to this article 28 when you try to make agreements with people to expropriate as rural soil alone that is urbanized. Tell me if that's legal security. Finally, the People's Party does not even get to the list that puts the European Commission, the Troika – not even the Troika –; it does not even get to the list that Mrs Ana Pastor puts on the State Road Law Project. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u81	Thank you very much. Socialist Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u82	Again, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, on 14 April 2015 all opposition groups voted against taking into account the Bill tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on Galician roads. Only the People's Group voted in favour of the consideration. In spite of this, the Socialist Group has tabled 47 partial amendments; the People's Group has the sensitivity to accept one, number 47, 2.1%; we accept the proposed transaction to our Amendment No 43, submitted by the People's Group, and we do not accept the proposed transaction to Amendment No 1. And we didn't do it primarily because it was an obvious difference in conception: where we proposed that the pavement is the paved part of the explanation composed of one or more lanes and intended for the circulation of motor vehicles, the proposed transaction included also the functional elements in that definition. A question which is in clear contradiction with the current draft road law, road law, at national level, which is being discussed in Parliament. The other opposition groups presented 30 amendments, with a percentage of 0% action, i.e. zero of thirty. The Popular Parliamentary Group has tabled 3 amendments and its proposed amendment. We are not going to support either of the three amendments of the People's Group because the three persist in the lack of clarity and therefore arbitrary application, with the legal security consequence for the administration and for the administrations, and these, in addition, are the ones that eventually always the most defenceless. On the 14 amendments tabled by Alternative Glaga de Left, we asked for the vote in two groups: a first group composed of Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14, that we will support, and another group formed by Amendments 7, 8 and 13, that we will refuse. We're going to support the five amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block because we agreed at the bottom; we both rejected the bill and also rejected the bill. Perhaps, Mrs Pontón, the only difference, or the most substantial difference, is that this Member had some hope, and you, who is a veteran in these discussions, have already lost credit for a timid change in the attitude of the People's Group. Finally, we call for the vote on the eleven amendments to the Joint Group in two blocks: on the one hand, the numbers 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 11, which we will support, and in another group to 3.7 and 8, in which we will abstain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Road Law of 2013 was the result of the attitudes of the People's Party, excluding extra-parliamentary and exclusive contributions from parliamentary contributions. These attitudes provide a law for the image of the People's Party, in addition to other administrations – and I pray you to review article 41.1 of the law as regards construction lines with respect to conventional roads – and also civil society and alienity with Parliament itself. A law insensitive to road safety, insensitive to heritage, insensitive to the environment and insensitive to the territory itself; a law that allows new rates, which increases the content of sanctions and prepares the expropriations to measure. The failure of the law is visible to the People's Group, which has tabled this bill. However, they repeat the mistake by not electing the ordinary procedure of processing; increasingly isolated, more incommunicado with society, with local authorities, with Parliament. It's enough to take a look at the guest gallery to see that of 314 municipalities affected as road owners and four deputies there's absolutely no one up there. Counsellor, you were not a government when the bill was introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u83	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u84	...of roads in Galicia, but participated in its drafting, as expressed by the spokesperson of the People's Group, Mr. Gomez Alonso, as Director of Infrastructure. He was also not a Popular Group when he introduced this bill to amend the Road Law. The People's Group is amending the former Counsellor as a promoter of the law and you as a material author of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u86	I'm done, Madam President. I am convinced that the law resulting from this bill will be, if I allow the simile, the failed twin sister of her Law 8/2013, of June 28th, of roads of Galicia. Today it starts the time behind for a change in PP's hand or for a new law of roads to the hands of the other groups. The Socialist Group would only be available...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u88	...to support the derogation of this Road Law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u89	Popular Group, Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u90	Thank you again, Madam President. Counsellor, the proposed law has been introduced in the appropriate procedural procedure, as it is known and has already been cited here by the President of the Commission, eleven amendments from the Joint Group, nine of which were additions and two deletions; fourteen amendments from the Alternative Left Glaga Group, one from addition, eleven from suppression and two from substitution; five amendments from the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, the five from suppression; forty-seven amendments from the Socialist Group, twenty-two from modification, five from addition and twenty from deletion, from which we have reached agreement with two of them, as mentioned in the previous intervention; and finally, the three amendments from our group, two from substitution and one from addition. With regard to the other parliamentary groups, I will now briefly outline the main reasons why our group rejects most of them. Almost all of its proposals can generally be classified in the following subgroups: a first, which includes amendments to the abolition of articles of the Road Law, in which groups intend to delete the provisions or paragraphs thereof, of the Galician Road Law, which are affected by the bill. The effect would be that the proper regulation of the law which is necessary would disappear, subjecting backlogs to current regulations and limiting the administration's action on certain issues such as expropriatory procedures, the dictatement of own technical instructions on roads to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the activities of municipal interest in road public domain, the presumption of veracity of public officials involved in road exploitation and a long et cetera. A second subgroup is the amendments to delete paragraphs of the bill. This is particularly true in the case of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which, with the introduction of the amendments to the articulate it makes, is indeed a covert amendment to the whole, since it proposes to delete successively all the text of the proposed law, of the last provisions and of the explanatory statement. It seems logical, therefore, Mrs. Pontón, and according to our discretion, not to respond to such a request. Other groups propose to delete certain sections of the legislative initiative which, of course, are not empty of content. If such amendments were accepted, the effectiveness of the sanctions proceedings against legal persons would be lost; the possibility of saving money for the administration in special contracts or the possibility of increasing legal certainty of the judicial authorizations, among other matters. A third group of amendments seek to amend provisions of the Galician Road Law not expressly affected by this bill. In these cases, in the foul judgment, there would be no analysis of the amendments tabled, which should be dealt with as independent bills. This is particularly true of amendments by the Joint Group and many by the Socialist Group. And finally, the rest would be rejected by the parliamentary groups, and that, in our judgment, they are amendments that do not improve the original text of the bill – said, of course, with due respect –. This is our position, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the political approach of the various parliamentary groups against this bill. They may accept or reject it, as it is evident, but this parliamentary group is convinced to comply with its legal obligation to deal with this bill, which aims, above all, to improve the vigour of our Community's Road Law, to the sole benefit of the citizens of Galicia, to whom, like the vast majority of you, we try to represent as much dignity as possible. To that end, by serving the Greeks who lent us their trust, we will continue to devote ourselves with all strength that we are capable of. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-03-DSPG117.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Goldar. We'll stop the meeting until tomorrow at nine o'clock. Good night, thank you very much.
