ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u1	Let's restart the session. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Debate and vote on the Opinion drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the European Communities, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal for a law of a popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u2	They are maintained for the full amendment of the Joint Group, the Galego Nationalist Block, the Left Galician Alternative and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The legislative text under discussion, in its Titles I and II, Articles 1 to 13 included, regulates the popular legislative initiative, and in its derogatory provision derogates from Law 1/1988 of 19 January, of a popular legislative initiative before the Parliament of Galicia. As the so-called Law 1/1988 is a basic development law of the State of autonomy, its approval requires an absolute majority in a final vote of all that will take place after the ordinary votes of the amendments and before the remaining articulated text of the dictatorship, at the end of this point. We therefore begin with the presentation of the Commission's dictation by the chairman of the Commission, Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The bill you referred to by Mrs President was entered in Parliament's register on February 16, 2015. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 17 February, admitted this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament on 18 February 2015. At the plenary meeting on 24 March, the bill was taken into consideration. Subsequently, the Bureau, heard the Speaker's Board, agreed to be processed by Commission 1st and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulated, which ended on May 11, 2015. The amendments to the articulation presented, qualified by the Bureau of the Commission at the meeting on 22 May and published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, were 120 amendments to the articulated, 19 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 13 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 64 of the Joint Parliamentary Group and 24 of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left. Commission 1st appointed the following speakers: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga as the owner and donna Paula Prado del Río as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Fr. José Luís Méndez Romeu as the holder and Ms. Carmen Gallego Calvar as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left, Fr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz as the holder and Ms. Yolanda Díaz Pérez as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Xesú Jorquera Caselas as holder and Ms. Maria Terixea Paz Franco as alternate; and by the Mixed Group, she donated María Consuelo Martínez García as the holder and donated Carmen Igles Sueiro as alternate. The Phoenician Constitutive Session took place on 4 July 2015. And after successive meetings and after the examination and discussion of the amendments submitted, as well as of the text itself, the Pôncia issued a report, which was the subject of debate and approval at the Commission meeting on 26 May. The articulated text of the dictation is structured into six titles, a transitional provision, a derogatory provision and a last disposition. And so far the legislative journey of this bill, to which it is incumbent today to put an end to submitting its ruling to plenary consideration. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u4	Thank you very much. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Carmen Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u5	Good morning, ladies. Thank you very much, President. The right to political participation has its constitutional basis in Article 23.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which establishes the right of citizens to participate in public affairs directly or through their representatives. The definition of open parliament, worked on the NovaGob social network, which describes it as the one who communicates all parliamentary activity and information about the institution and its members in a transparent manner and in open and understandable formats by citizenship is a reference to the social participation working group in the State Parliament in the elaboration of the political participation document; new approaches. The text drawn up and the professional and theoretical accreditations that have drawn it up, sound and prestige workers in the field of justice and institutional law, are similar references to this honourable Member. In a context of economic, political and social crisis like the present one, Parliament is at the point of view of all criticism. Expressions of discontent are directed towards the political system as a whole. "They don't represent us," the people say. The CIS barometer shows a progressive loss of trust in representative institutions, perhaps by understanding the citizenship that political representation is alienated from its real representations. On a scale from 0 to 10, confidence in the political class was 2.53 in 2013, and it followed and followed down. It is essential that democratic regeneration and the openness that facilitates formal ways and channels of citizen participation to which the State and the institutions are able to respond and which serve to advance the reform and improvement of our precarious democratic system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to move from protests to proposals. Proposals put forward by the Joint Group in its amendments, which decides to maintain despite its rejection and which are presented and defended with the intention of building and contributing to greater compliance with the fundamental right of citizen participation in public affairs and the increase in the social participation of citizenship in Parliament, as well as transparency in the exercise of politics, which would be strengthened in its legitimacy and in the recovery of the confidence of citizens of having been approved by the Presidency. But it wasn't like that. I'm very afraid that the adoption of this law is just another wash towards which the subsidized media will form tomorrow in the format of an important headline: the Galician Parliament approves a law that will facilitate popular legislative initiatives and citizen participation. And it will give rise, on certain television channels, to debates between sedentary and boring continuums about what is nothing but carousel smoke. How, if not, do they refuse the amendment to lower the threshold of signatures necessary to set up the Greek people as subject to popular legislative initiatives? That's every time the population of Galicia goes up to 2,731,406, according to the Galego Institute of Statistics. And given its dispersal characteristics and the small size of large cities, it is not understood that they do not accept to lower the number of signatures so that the current excessive number does not make a stop. Amendment No 2 also rejected, part of the re-examination of excluded materials. Without a doubt, in order to achieve greater citizen participation as diverse as possible, we believe that the maximum number of subjects on which popular legislative initiatives can be presented should be included, respecting as a single limit the established constitutional framework, which does not include the basic development initiatives of the Autonomy Statute, since the Spanish Constitution has as its sole limit Article 87.3, which establishes as matters excluded from popular legislative initiatives the very own of the organic, tax or international laws, as well as those relating to the prerogative of grace. And we also find the number of members of the commission too excessive, if it's not to try to make the procedure more difficult. We amend this number, which in the law is 10, to eliminate a superfluous requirement, to a maximum of 3. We also insist on agitating and adapting the times for both the admission of the procedure and the withdrawal, when the amendments of the parliamentary groups distort and modify the spirit of the popular legislative initiative, as has already happened in this Chamber. On the other hand, the period of one month, which sets out the text we amend to examine the documentation submitted by the Bureau of Parliament, far exceeds that set out in relevant texts, both at the autonomous level, as well as the Catalan Law 1/2006 of 16 February, or the Aragonese Law 7/1984 of 27 December, and also at the state level, the Organic Law 3/1984 of 26 March. And it is paradoxical that in particular point (c) of Amendment No 5 the deletion of this paragraph is not accepted, given that we aspire to have the regulated procedure consist of a citizen instrument and not a worker, which would be consistent with this proposal and would give promoters the possibility of accumulating the processing of the initiatives presented on the same subjects as others in progress, and not rejecting them in plan. And it's suspicious that the amendment is rejected to make the count of the number of signatures by the Electoral Committee public, which would provide greater transparency and credibility to the whole process. Amendments 15, 16 and 17 are in the direction of real effectiveness of the popular legislative initiative, so we consider it appropriate to remove the procedure of taking into account and incorporate the participation of the commission promoter in all proceedings, and to introduce to improve the institution and protect legal certainty the protocol so that in the event of the dissolution of the House it will continue to process the procedure in the new legislation. With regard to Amendment 21, amendment to Article 14.3, and since 2010, Galicia has had detailed regulation of electronic administration, where the identification modes by telematic means that are applicable to the Galician Union and its dependent entities are perfectly defined. While it is true that Parliament lacks an electronic headquarters of these characteristics, nothing would prevent the fact that, by virtue of this legislative text, it is believed, from using the existing model for the Union as a model. That's why substituting an electronic signature collection system at a later stage would go against the process. It also rejects amendments aimed at improving and agitating popular legislative initiatives, and it is very surprising that Amendment 26, which is included in Article 15(2)(c) of the 24th, is rejected. What makes me think of this contradiction is that you intend to give an image of negotiation when you have no real intention of doing so. This is also evident in Article 16(2), which states that the Bureau of the House will take a decision on the admissibility of questions of popular initiative and reject those which it considers inappropriate, without recourse. In a real system of popular participation in the control of the Government, we consider the need to incorporate the possibility to appeal against the inadmissibility of questions posed by citizenship. But you're not, because you refuse the amendment. I hope they'll clear me up. The text, which I refer to at the beginning of my speech and which I refer to as a reference for my speech – political participation; new approaches – in its paragraph 2, international trends in participation in an open parliament, reports that, in order to help parliamentarians make progress in participation, more than 135 civil society organizations monotorizing parliamentary work around the world endorsed the Declaration on Parliamentary Transparency, which was taken up by bodies such as the Commonwealth Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly for Security and Cooperation in Europe, at its 22th annual meeting in Istanbul in June 2013, by national parliaments such as the Senate of Mexico and by a growing number of legislative assemblies such as the Parliament of Andalusia. This statement, in one of its principles, states that Parliament has an obligation to communicate and actively bind citizens and civil society in fundamental processes and in making decisions in order to actively represent citizens and to enforce citizens' right of petition to their governors. We do not believe the Members of the Joint Group that this legislative text is more than pure literature, more than a legislate than a genuine legislator. Cercena, constrict and limit citizen initiatives and little – or better said nothing – contributes to the improvement of the citizen's passion, which we are supposed to represent, so as a subject of law to have access to parliamentary procedure and management. It won't count on our vote; not on our name. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the word Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. We are now in the final phase, therefore, of a bill in which the People's Party is supposed to be trying to promote greater citizen participation and greater capacity of people living in Galicia – yes, as long as they are older – in order to bring proposals to this Parliament. And we, from the Galego Nationalist Block, have to say that we really defend a participatory democracy, a democracy in which one overcomes the role that the Spanish Constitution itself establishes, that model of representative democracy where we are seeing that citizens are being reduced to voters who simply have the function of legitimization for four years of government to do on many political occasions that even go against what is put in the programs that are presented to the elections. But today we are not facing an initiative that really aims to promote a participatory democracy but, in fact, we are seeing how it is intended to redecorate even further this Parliament's relationship with its citizens, and even within the framework and the whole of the debate in which it is given, we understand that it can even be a type and an initiative model that can generate greater social frustration. We also have to say that we believe this is a curtain of smoke to cover up the serious problems and the democratic involution that we are living, because it is a democratic involution that is encouraging the People's Party at the state level with cuts in freedom of expression and with bites on citizens. And in this Parliament we are also living a morbid law that we are going to debate on next points through this reform of the regulation, which in practice the only thing you want to limit is the political pluralism that exists in society and limit the capacity that we have in this Parliament and we respond to the demands that exist in society. But above all, we also believe that this is another chapter of the political hypocrisy that the People's Party has and, of course, of that perverse game in which the PP says one thing and does the opposite. Because it is said here that it is intended to promote citizen participation and the centrality of the Greek Parliament, but in this legislation we have to see how the Greek Parliament is increasingly limited to the rights we have in the opposition. During the last part-session, Mrs Carmen Adán was expelled for asking for the application of the Rules of Procedure and nothing has happened at all. Of course, we have to go to the Constitutional, which is a body that works absolutely pachydermally, to defend a fundamental right as the regulations are complied with. Let's see how this government is away. It's funny that there's no government member in a debate on these characteristics. We don't know very well if that seems normal, but it's the general tone of a government that completely ignores Parliament. We also see how committees are formed in this Parliament with rules that are being violated, but in fact nothing happens. We have a Committee on Boxes kidnapped, we have a Committee on the Study of Corruption also kidnapped by the People's Party, we have the opportunity to debate, for example, the establishment of the Committee on Research in Angles, or even the People's Party has banned the Parliamentary Group of the BNG that we can debate legislative initiatives that we have registered and that meet all the requirements. A limited democracy, a cultured democracy that we really believe loses all sense. Today, or yesterday, let us see how appointments can even be made against the laws passed by this Parliament, as in the case of the Board of Directors of the CRTVG, but nothing happens, because, as there is no punitive part of the law, it understands the majority group of this House, represented in the Bureau of Parliament, which can be bypassed without anything happening at all. But we also believe today that this has a much more burning part, or, if you want, of course, because the fundamental reason for this reform presented by the People's Parliamentary Group is that citizens who come into a promotional commission and collect a large number of signatures soon can transfer us to groups to present non-law proposals or to ask questions. I don't know what PP practice is. We in this legislation, for example, presented a bill against the use of cyanide, to ban the use of cyanide, in mining, which was literally transferred by various social organizations, and the only thing they had to do was to meet with us and register that initiative, without having to be constituted in a promotional commission, have to obtain signatures and validate them by an Electoral Union, because really what you are in practice doing is bureaucraticizing the normal relationship between this Parliament with the groups and those social agents who participate in politics. But the most serious thing – and we would say that the most machiavelist – of this initiative is that it is not guaranteed that those proposals that follow that endorsement and that work will be discussed in this House, or that the promoters of that initiative can speak directly in this Parliament and defend it. Because what the People's Party does is to say that for that, in order for these initiatives to be debated, there must be some group that assumes them, and for them to get to that full they have to go at the expense of the number of initiatives that parliamentary groups have. And all this in the day and in the session where the initiatives we will have by the groups to discuss are reduced. So, this really in itself is a spook, a real spook, because in practice no direct participation of citizens is being guaranteed but they are actually setting up a series of higher requirements when establishing the normal relationship. All this is a fiction, a chimera that we understand that in practice it does not walk towards a participatory democracy, but it does indeed follow a model that we believe is a model that makes water everywhere, that does not sink into a real democracy, where citizens have a greater role than to be voters. Because also in this legislation the BNG did propose a whole series of reforms to move forward in that direction, even in a framework as the constitutional framework, which we understand is very limited in this kind of aspect because it enshrines a representative democracy and not really a participatory democracy, in addition to the criticism that we can make to that model of state that denies that there are peoples, nations, like Galicia, and that, indeed, believes in a unitary model where sovereignty resides only in the center and only the Spanish people are recognized and not the nations that we exist, as is the case of the Greek nation. But we bet there was a law of popular consultations, because there was a greater capacity for citizens' participation, in the proposal that we defend the regulation, a direct and real participation of citizenship in many areas, and this is nothing but fireworks, lies or burns, as you want to call this initiative. But we also find that, even within that framework, we do not agree with, an interest of the People's Party in deepening some reforms, even within this framework. BNG defends amendments to the popular legislative initiative; a law that was reformed on the initiative of our group but then the People's Party deformed and turned around in a limiting way. We continue to advocate that 16-year-olds can participate actively in making proposals and in signing popular legislative initiatives. We have very clear that it is not a legal problem, that it is a problem of political will and that there are sufficient mechanisms to make this possible, and we believe that the 16-year-olds, who can work, who can even be emancipated, could also have political rights, at least participation, when making proposals to this Parliament so that this Parliament will decide whether or not to accept them, and we think it is important. We also have another series of amendments that are related to a situation that we find to be neither logical nor fair. We understand that if there is a commission that promotes a popular legislative initiative, whether it is accepted or not, it should not be the reason for the expenditure incurred to be compensated by this Parliament, and the mere fact that it is debated should be a sufficient condition for us to allocate resources to that direct participation of the citizenry, because, if not, in practice, only resources are being allocated to those initiatives that coincide with the view that it is majority and that it has the group that at any given time has the majority in this House, and we believe in the equality of the whole world in the time of participation, in order to be able to promote such initiatives. We also believe it would be important to lower those thresholds of the People's Party in relation to the number of signatures required, both in terms of the ILP and in terms of non-law propositions or questions themselves. In that sense, we propose, in Amendment No 10, to reduce the number of signatures from 2,500 to 2,000 in non-law proposals and also to reduce it in the case of questions. We believe that it is essential that, if this mechanism is to be put together, there are assurances that these proposals coming from citizenship are directly debated and that they do not include or remain an initiative for parliamentary groups, which is in practice what the People's Parliamentary Group wants to do, and we believe that it must be the promoters and promoters of these initiatives who directly defend their proposals, because that should not be the basis of a real participatory democracy. We also believe, in that sense, that there should be reductions in what is meant by questions for the oral answer in committee, establishing a minimum of ten promoters and 100 signatures, and we also believe that, in the case of questions for written answer, we must consider the obligation of answers without the need for Members to assume them as their own; that is, any citizen can ask him a question for his written answer without us having to make intermediaries throughout this process. In short, we today, even though we have a proposal in which we believe that this initiative that the People's Party is presenting in practice will not lead to a greater approximation of this Parliament's citizenship, we believe that this package of reforms of democratic involution is a new fiction to give a headline but that in practice it will not involve a deepening in a real participatory democracy, we defend some amendments that at least limit this bureaucracy and all those requirements for in practice because something as normal as moving a question to a parliament or a proposal is not a career of obstacles, papers and bureaucracy, which is what Parliament seems to want to convert the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Alternative Left Galician Parliamentary Group. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. The reality is that it does not need to be a sharp observer in order to realise the democratic arthrosis that this Parliament suffers, a parliament in which, sitting after sitting, the president refuses to answer the questions posed by the opposition groups, becoming the most responsible of the Government of Galicia in opposition to the opposition; a parliament that through the majority group vetos the formation of research committees as important as the one mentioned here is a moment ago, the commission of research on what happened in England, or the paralysis of the commission of investigation of savings boxes. But not only research committees; study committees are paralysed, which for nothing should be dangerous for the status quo of this government, such as the committee of study on the situation of the Greek, which concerns both citizenship, or the commission of study on the situation of education in rural areas, which, as we all know, is agonic. An armored parliament which punishes the groups and even the delict Members, where the assistance of citizenship is limited to the rostrum. They look at the rostrum, today they talk about participation, an empty rostrum when they talk about something essential to the functioning of democracy. That is why the law that is going to approve the People's Party today is no more than a vague attempt to conceal the failure of democratic commitment, detected and found in the Greek Government by citizenship, a failure of democratic commitment that is accompanied by a deep crisis of representation of public institutions, but also a deep crisis of identity of the parties of the regime, which now assume a language and social demands that have been neglected until recently, because that is the reality, through an exercise of political imposure or transformationism, in the purest style of the Italian Regiment, which only reflects its desperate attempt to maintain power at all costs. Because they will agree with their lordships that, regardless of the perspective we use, our democracy does not enjoy exactly good health, nor even good social consideration. The intention of reducing democracy is merely an elite selection mechanism, that's in practice. It's being challenged by a citizen who feels more and more disappointed every day, as evidenced by the high rates of abstention and disaffectation that usually occur in election calls, one call after another. But, moreover, this disaffectation is accompanied by little proportional electoral systems, arbitrary electoral barriers, and by the absence of effective mechanisms capable of combating fraud and corruption that afflict these institutions. These and other techniques are not causative evils, but they operate in practice as a filter in determining which social and political groups may or may not be in institutions and can access governments. On the other hand, the role played by the media and the media is causing a devastating effect on freedom of criticism and political pluralism, allowing a small economic and financial minority to control and annihilate the broad-layered civil, political and social rights of society, while at the same time giving absolute support to the basic institutional sources of our political regime. That is the grave situation of our democracy. The kind of democracy that is being promoted and which promotes political and financial oligarchies is usually limited to a democracy of representatives or parties, projecting important limitations on other areas of participation, such as work centres, such as neighbourhoods, such as schools, where democracy is really also home, and in this way the only thing that has been granted to citizenship is a kind of democratic illusion or at least a low-intensity democracy as we currently have. It is no wonder, therefore, that the closed and unconditional defense that the factual powers make of the present democratic system is routinely handed over to the task of concealing the deformation of the most basic democratic principles. Thus, reforms and norms are often presented which, under democratic appearances, are nothing more than a mere exercise of preventive social reformism or restraint or of what Gramsci would call "passive revolution". This is the case with the rule that now deals with us, a mere exercise of preventive social reformism. Therefore, in the face of this scenario of democratic anemia, the activation of mechanisms of citizen participation, of mechanisms of control of the most effective and incisive power, of more representative electoral laws, of broad freedom of expression and association, of defense of the common good is urgent. It is necessary to change the paradigm according to which democracy is a gift granted, static and constituted, in order to become understood as an open, dynamic and driven movement by the permanent constituent breath of citizenship. Democracy can only be rehabilitated by the impulse of a profound change aimed at transforming representative democracy into participatory democracy, gained day by day, with agreements yes, but also with disagreements, with consensus as well, but also with dissensors, always directed to the achievement of more just, equal and far from the despotism of the private in which we are installed. The political powers must commit themselves to the establishment of material channels necessary to make effective the citizen's participation in political life. It can't be a mere statement of intent. They must provide the information, knowledge and motivation needed to enable people to spread their participatory capacities, deliver all their possibilities to express themselves, create, organize and intervene on everything that is essential and relevant to their lives. The ultimate purpose of the citizen participation processes is not only to allow participation, but to achieve social conditions so that all citizens have the same opportunities to express themselves, to think about and to participate in equality conditions, above all that affects them. In short, the whole opposite of what this so-called participation law contains; a law of participation which is realized in an attempt to inject a participatory illusion into a citizenship that is treated as an immature political subject with this rule; a law that further consolidates, more fits – as we say – a representative democracy, without producing any progress in participatory democracy. In fact, the law envisages, on the one hand, existing measures, as is the case with changes in the popular legislative initiative, already driven in this case by the Galego Nationalist Block, and, on the other hand, giving them the normative appearance to formulas already practised in this Parliament, as is the fact that the citizenship present initiatives through the parliamentary groups of the opposition, something that is already done repeatedly; there is no plenary session where the opposition groups, any of them, bring some initiative presented or defended by the citizenry. We understand that the participatory impulse is either decided or concrete or it is a simple farce, a new democratic fraud, another democratic fraud. So in the case of Alternative Left-Galga we present 19 amendments, which contain not only concrete and real measures, but also new channels, new measures to allow true participation. Thus, Amendments 4, 5 and 6 are aimed at allowing citizens not only to present non-law proposals, as they already do, but also to defend them for themselves, ensuring that at every plenary session and commission at least the defence of a non-law proposal is permitted by citizens in the first person. Amendments such as 6 to 8 and 9 which, in the same direction, aim to allow citizens to make, on their own, a question to the Government at every plenary or commission. Amendments such as 10, 11, 12 and 13, which address the mechanisms to allow a commission to promote, with a certain number of signatures – because if it is a subject of debate – to promote the establishment of a participatory public debate on a particular issue of social relevance. What are you afraid of, what fear can the Government of Greece open up a participatory public social debate on issues that are of particular concern to citizenship? Amendments like the 14th and the 15th that regulate the citizen's consultations, so that citizenship can express its opinion and decide on issues of special transcendence. Why is democracy understood as an exercise in depositing the vote in the ballot box and delivering a blank check to the Government for four years? We understand that this is a poor and impoverished vision of what has to be conquered and consolidated democracy every day. And we defend through Amendments Nos 18 and 19 the establishment of participatory budgets, so that collectives, associations and agents concerned or even collective persons or associations affected by these budgets can effectively participate in the process and in the committees of debate of the budgets of Galicia, because we understand that budgets are a central element in defining the fundamental policies and services that directly affect citizenship. Participatory budgets cannot be a window on a web page where you deposit suggestions. We understand that this web space defined by the Greek Government as "Lexisla with us" is a real failure. Check your lordships for the nearness of each of the rules that we have approved in this extraordinary plenary and you'll see how in most cases there are zero near, zero suggestions. proactive measures must be taken to promote participation. And, at the end of the day, we tabled an amendment, number one, so that the rule includes all persons living in Galicia over 16 years of age. We understand that if a person over the age of 16 has the possibility and the corresponding labour obligations that lay down labour law, he has of course the obligations and criminal responsibilities, because he must also have the possibility to participate, more so when this law simply uses citizenship to promote measures, because it is the Government, it is always the Parliament who is the media, it is the Parliament who has always used Parliament as the mediator of that participation. Finally, we are proposing measures aimed at promoting real participation and not, of course, allowing this farce to be consumed, as it is surely consumed by the adoption of this law which will certainly not allow a real participation of the citizenry. It doesn't contain with us for this, and that's why we, of course, are going to vote against the dictates of this law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The popular legislative initiative is an effective step in virtually all democratic systems, in Spain it is necessary to recognize that with little effect: in three decades of democracy in Spain the Courts have only adopted a popular legislative initiative of the most thirty that have been presented. In Galicia the situation is something better: 37 initiatives were presented, in the history of Autonomy, and 6 were approved, that is, 18%. It's almost obvious to say that, in general, popular legislative initiatives are supported by opposition and usually despised by the Government. As for the effectiveness of the approved rules, it's easy to remember. In Galicia one, the first, was approved to create the Health Area of the Salnés; another, for the improvement and protection of the Greek rivers; a third, on the network of support for pregnant women; another, on the promotion of the naval sector; the next, on the Lusophony; and finally one on clinical services in the Lugo hospital – this one, of course, in the parliamentary debate process was even changed to the name, leaving it unrecognizable to the promoters –. If there is no memory of what has happened to popular legislative initiatives, it is difficult to analyze the rule that is proposed to us today, and much more difficult to understand that it is necessary to change the current law, which was passed in this Parliament ten months ago, last November. Therefore, we are faced with an absolute lack of motivation on the part of the proposed rule. Do you mean to tell the majority of the House that you intend to increase the number of initiatives submitted regardless of whether they are mostly rejected? Should we tell the citizens that this law improves so that 82% of the initiatives they can present are discarded? Because this data must also be made available to the public, allegedly beneficiary of these initiatives. It is true that Galicia and the Canary Islands lead the ranking of initiatives presented and approved, but the results I have just exposed are enough children to form a paradigm of good participatory practices. The justification offered by the People's Group to bring back to this House a text similar to that of October, with few changes, is to include in the same text different rules that refer to voters; it is at least picturesque, it is a picturesque argument, especially when in this same plenary session a reform of the Rules of Procedure is going to be discussed where some of these novelties that the People's Group proposes to us in the text, but the People's Group does not want those matters that have to do with participation in the proceedings of the House, as would be normal, and prefer to keep them in this text that we have now discussed. We could say, using a very expressive neologism, that we are faced with a standard of posture. At a time when social networks can generate the illusion of a multi-party debate without real interactivity, the Government believes that this rule can produce the impression that citizens are involved in the parliamentary process without effective participation. At the very least, the citizens could get to the register, something they were already doing. To explain, or maybe to mask, all this, the PP needs a bill. More than a norm, we should be talking here about a story, about the modern account of the People's Party, which is a mixture of euphemisms and images, because it is an account where Feijó wants to appear as a paladin of democratic impulse, but only in the speech, where it is preached against corruption while the agreements in the House are made impossible to deal with or where the electoral premium that currently represents the D’Hont Law is intended to benefit the groups with more votes increases even more to avoid coalitions; that is, they want to introduce the majority system through the back door. Its account is simple and at the same time apocalyptic: either PP or chaos. For many people it's already synonymous. The arguments used reveal the inconsistencies of the text. The new precepts are not incorporated into the regulation – we are clear – because they do not actually have any content. It is proposed that a citizen proposal, with the support of 2,500 signatures, may be registered in Parliament and that the questions posed by citizens can also be recorded, but they will only be effective if a group makes them its own; but that in practice has already happened without the need for signatures or such high numbers of applicants. Moreover, it is worth asking why 2,500 citizens are going to have to waste time collecting signatures if the groups, at least opposition groups, we receive virtually any collective, any person who asks for it, and usually their demands are met. What does this text then provide as a novelty? Bringing 2,500 signatures to be abandoned in the index of parliamentary initiatives, because it is clear that only a very small part, as this is proposed, can be incorporated into ordinary processing. If the goal was to visualize the citizen's demand, it should be allowed to defend initiatives by promoters in all proceedings, as this group demands, but this is still opposed to most popular. Citizens who come to the register, but citizens who do not participate in the processing of their own initiative. Alternatively, the Committee on Petitions of the House — virtually inoperative today — could have been empowered to meet and give direct audiences, without prejudice to the Vigilant rules of minority and majority, because what is the problem for citizens to ask questions to the face of parliamentary headquarters? It also proposes that the suggestions to the bills which citizens refer to Parliament should be considered in the legislative statements, in the over-understanding that they will be discarded, because how will they be incorporated as is established the procedure for handling amendments? This project has so little content that it's hard to speak against. Nothing we can say in favour, and what might be relevant is omitted, not in the text; it is therefore a perfectly useless law, but it is a demonstration law of the legislative program of the Greek Government; a cutting and grasping program with so little legal rigour that the Government systematically amends itself in all kinds of rules. Slowly the laws of Greece, instead of offering a safe framework for economic activity, offer transitional measures of doubtful effectiveness, usually lacking a minimally solid economic memory. They're ephemeral communication-oriented rules rather than problem solving. But some of these rules, however, have an impact on the economic, business or service fabric, and we are constantly receiving news of the perplexity, confusion and even sometimes the indignation of people, companies and entities who suffer from the negative consequences of this legislative frivolity. Is there any intelligent reflection in the government? To begin with, the absence of the House, as usual, unfortunately. Are they just going through this government? Because if there is a lack of rigour in legislative production, if in budgetary execution they do not seem interested, if everyday management is abandoned, what remains of the Government?, only information or propaganda policy and the distribution of aid? This group maintains an amendment which seems essential to us, which is to ensure the presence of the proponents of the popular legislative initiative in all its proceedings, once taken into consideration. We believe that this does not alter the ordinary functioning of the House or the prerogatives of the groups or the play of majority and minorities, but it does seem to us that it would give more participation to prevent what has happened in the handling of some of the initiatives I mentioned: that during this process, as explained clearly, promoters see how their text is modified in a manner contrary to their wishes. Our group understands that this project does not improve at all the participation of citizens and therefore announce a negative vote. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are debating today a legislative text that fulfils a clear commitment by the People's Party, which is to give society greater participation in autonomous institutions. The People's Parliamentary Group has encouraged the proposal for a law of popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in order to incorporate new elements in order to facilitate the participation of citizenship in the parliamentary field. In this way, citizens, who could only participate in Parliament through the right of requests or the popular legislative initiative, can now intervene in the agenda of the House, by controlling the Government and by presenting questions and even initiatives of impulse. Galicia thus becomes the first autonomous community to pass a law with a wide range of legislative initiatives in which citizenship can participate in general. Ladies and gentlemen, every day there is more demand on the part of citizens for concrete decisions, and with this rule we show that we have the capacity to respond to this demand. We look for more ways to improve the relationship of institutions with citizenship, with more information, with more transparency and promoting citizen participation; resources all of them that improve efficiency and efficiency in public management. Citizens can, with their initiatives, push the political agenda, push those issues that they consider important at every moment, from diagnosis, through impulse initiatives and ending with control initiatives, asking questions to the Government. While in other territories of the State they are debating whether a member of the commission of promoters can go to plenary or not to defend the citizen participation initiative, in Galicia we have been doing this question with absolute normality for many years now, Mrs Iglesias, which was in doubt if other places were done. I want to tell you that in the Congress of Deputies members of the commission promoter cannot defend the popular legislative initiative in plenary. I insist, this has been being done with absolute normality for years and, as Mr. Méndez Romeo said, Galicia is the autonomous community in which more popular legislative initiatives are presented and debated. This shows a very high democratic quality index in our community because participation is a clear indicator of system health, especially when levels of participation are high, as is the case with Galicia. Therefore, we can say that democracy in Galicia enjoys a magnificent state of health, despite what some say – which I will soon argue – and we will see democracy, depending on whether it is in the opposition or in the Government, it is exercised in different ways. We believe that this increase in citizen participation which we are going to approve today will occur without deviation from the democratic representative system at all; that is, Members and Members will continue to defend the general interests of the Greeks and the Greeks regardless of whether we open up the possibility that very specific and very particular interests are being defended by citizens who agree on a consensus in a number of previously established signatures. In this sense, we also facilitate the work of citizenship by making Parliament's resources available to citizens, regulating the duty of Parliament's Juridical Services to advise the members of the committees that promote these initiatives and by facilitating them to meet the formal requirements necessary for them to be admitted to the process. As we did with the popular legislative initiative, we introduced the possibility of using the electronic signature mechanism. I told Mrs. Churches that it was not normal to introduce a mechanism that is not enabled. Well, Mrs Iglesias, in October 14 we approved an amendment to the People's Legislative Initiative Act in which we introduced the possibility of the electronic signature mechanism and the Electoral Board approved an order in February this year in which the whole mechanism was already regulated. You, in your amendments, basically introduce electronic mechanisms that are already regulated by the Electoral Unit. Now the only thing we ask you to do in this new amendment is to adapt these mechanisms for the introduction of non-law, non-legislative proposals, and questions, but the mechanism is already working. We believe it is not appropriate to change a question which, I insist, has been regulated since February this year and which works with absolute normality, and I think it works well. It is a possibility that, I insist, we introduced to the last amendment, and the Electoral Committee I think it was quick, in four months I had passed that mandate that we gave it from Parliament and that it had to be in six months; this question which I think will be much faster now, since it is already in progress one, and will simply be small adaptations to what is already in force. And in this change of late 14th year, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to introducing the electronic signature, we reduced the number of signatures to 10,000 for popular legislative initiatives. We're talking about popular legislative initiatives, because, of course, here some people come to give us classes of citizen participation and, if we go to the rules they approved when they ruled, it's amazing because if we take, for example, the rules of citizen participation of the county of Ferrol, we see as the 10% signatures of the inhabitants of Ferrol – that are 70,000, that is, 7,000 signatures – to ask for a hearing with the mayor or with some conceler. Well, here I have colleagues who have been mayors in their people and I suppose they will be absolutely surprised; that is to say, they tell us, that we are these earlier parties, that we now adapt to participation... Of course, if participation assumes that citizens have to collect 7,000 signatures – a socialist government, Mr. Méndez – 7,000 signatures, to be able to talk to the mayor, man!, the truth is that they call a little attention, but good... there they were given entrance to 16-year-old boys. Now, for proposals and to legislate and to introduce projects, if they demanded they were entitled to active suffrage. I mean, we're already talking about older than 16, with the Socialist Party and the United Left ruling in the Ferrol Town Hall. Well, consider on this line the Mixed Group and the Nationalist Block Galego because the participation of minors, specifically from 16 years of age. We disagree because we understand that it makes no sense to dissociate the minimum age to vote from the minimum age to support a legislative initiative. Of course, Mrs. Pontón, that the 16-year-olds can work and be emancipated, also the 14-year-olds can be emancipated, not only the 16-year-olds. But what makes no sense is to establish minimum conflicting ages for two rights that go intrinsically united. That is, to elect the representatives of the people we ask them to be 18 years old; now well, to replace the work that the representatives of the people can do with 16. Of course, that's absolutely surprising. If we allow them direct participation and direct democracy, they may be 16 years old; now, for indirect democracy, no, they have to be 18. Well, as I told you in another debate, Mrs. Pontón, you have representatives of the Congress of Deputies and you can make an amendment there, because from this House we have no competence to change the age of the right of active suffrage. Another of the issues that we could not introduce into the law and which would assume an important novelty is the attribution of the legislative initiative to the municipalities. In this sense, it is not provided for in the Statute of Self-Government and therefore we must leave out that possibility which we would like to introduce. This law is a pioneer in the Spanish state, we are the first autonomous community that we have a law that facilitates both the direct participation of citizenship in parliamentary life. Mrs Pontón, to be overwhelmed by the opposition, only in this legislation have we passed four laws on the initiative of opposition groups, ILPs, LGTB, animal protection and terminals. And, of course, we need to be rigorous in the debate, because, of course, you say here we are looking at the introduction of initiatives. For nothing, he didn't lose a single one. Only in one case, in a Council of Spokesmen, for a matter of drawing up the agenda, a very extensive agenda, did they propose to introduce it in the next plenary session, and you said no. And if not, tell the truth. You call bureaucracy what forms and procedures are. For we are not going to give up either form or procedure, because we believe it is important to live with order and normality. We think it's important. Others say that the rules are useless and that the rules are going to skip them. We believe the rules are to be fulfilled. And look, the only bite in this Parliament, Mrs. Pontón, was under the mandate of a left-wing government, which they hardly like to hear, which is the Bipartite. But, look, when you were ruling, you didn't debate yourself or you brought yourself to this plenary or a single popular legislative initiative, and you see there were a few in a position to be debated. And even they saw the introduction of some of them at the Speaker's Board. Do you remember Vigo's metropolitan area? Of course, the truth is, it's amazing. Mr. Méndez said the usual thing is that the opposition says yes and the government says no. Well, less when you were ruling, because, of course, you here have completely overseen all the popular legislative initiatives. But with us, since 2009, each and every one of the popular legislative initiatives that were in a position to bring themselves to this plenary session, and you know it. And now we pass by law a deadline to bring them, between the first and the second plenary since they were in a position to be debated. Now we regulate what the People's Party has been doing since 2009, which you haven't done when you were ruling and when you had most in this House. I know you don't like greenery, Mrs. Pontón, but you do. If not, tell me just one popular legislative initiative that you brought to this House. They've all been stripped of everything. [[Murmurs.]] I'd be grateful if you'd let me talk, because I didn't interrupt her in her speech shift. The totalitarianism you practice leads you to constantly interrupt people who talk if you don't like it... look, this is how it goes. Look, the regulation's going like this. First speak one and others hear; and then, those who hear speak and those who speak we hear. That's the regulation, which they don't like. [[Applause]] And look, the questions taken by Members who are neither in the full nor in the commission, because they will follow the process of written questions; therefore, they will have answered. You want to replace the representative democracy system with a direct democracy regime. We agree to facilitate and promote citizen participation, but respecting the system of representative democracy in order to secure general interests but favouring that certain groups have a voice. You say that now any collective can come, you receive it, just like us, like all groups. We collect their sensitivity, their anxiety, and we plan on an initiative. What's new about the law? For the novelty of the law is that the text that will be discussed will be exactly what this collective wants, not what the parliamentary group wants to give it. The writing is going to be exactly the one that you want that group or that collective. Mr. Sánchez, the President of the Board answers every fifteen days to the questions of opposition groups, the different thing is that you don't like what the president of the board answers. Of course, but for that they can ask another question within fifteen days. And, look, Your Honor, here the only group that punishes Members of this House is yours. And the evidence is that we have a Joint Group that we didn't have before, and that's not because the President of the House is putting a bite or punishment on them, as you say, on behalf of the ridiculous Members. Members of this House are punished by each group and theirs has an important experience in that regard. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it's also about regulating something that was already there, which was the "legislation with us." The amendments to the Gaga de Left Alternative, if we accepted them, some of the amendments, would be deleting the "legislation with us." With the legislation with us, with the current regulation, any citizen can introduce amendments, for example, to the law of budgets that we will debate in the last quarter of the year, any citizen. Mr. Méndez, as you also know, with the project, with the regulation that we are going to debate after this law, any citizen or collective who has an interest in a legislative initiative or a legislative project that is being debated in the House has the right to hear. Don't say that citizens can't come to Parliament. Of course they can come, and every day they are giving them and promoting mechanisms to make it easier for citizens to come to defend their initiatives and their interests in this House. Nor do we, Mr Méndez, agree to create regulatory confusion. We do not believe it is appropriate to introduce issues of participation in the regulation. Why? Because we want to make things easier for citizens. And we consider it more appropriate to include in a single law all the mechanisms of participation available to citizens, and not to disperse them into different rules, as you want, and to introduce issues of the regulation into the popular legislative initiative and issues of citizen participation in the regulation. So in that sense we disagree. We think that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u15	...today we will adopt a rule that facilitates the introduction of non-law proposals and questions by citizens to the Government. Citizens also have to know that this is going to be approved with the vote against you, those who defend participation, with the vote against left-wing parties, and that it will go ahead only with the vote of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u17	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, see if you're lucky and the last part of your speech is tomorrow's newspaper headline. That was his intention. I respect it, because you do party politics, and therefore the interests you defend are not the general interests of citizenship, they are the particular interests of the People's Party. We will support with our vote all the amendments of the BNG, because many coincide with those of the Joint Group, if not in the form, but in the spirit of them. They all complete and improve the text of the presentation. So, as I said, they'll count on our vote. Also those of the Alternative Left Galeg for the same reasons as those of the BNG. It is not the same with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, because some of them contradict those presented by the Joint Group, such as Amendment No. 4, which is very different in terms of the number of signatures necessary for a popular legislative initiative, and which they will not count, as they will understand, with our vote. On the contrary, even if we do not match Amendment No 5, if we vote in favour of it, because it is about deadlines and lowers them even more than presented by our group; so it will count on our vote. We abstain from Amendments Nos 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14 of the deletion, as they are contradictory to the amendments of the Joint Group, so we request the separate vote of Amendment No 4 and those of the last paragraph of Amendment No 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u18	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u19	Thank you very much. I wanted to start by telling Mrs Prado that it seems very important to us that citizens know what you're going to vote for here, of course. And the first thing to say is that the citizens and citizens of this country called Galicia will not be able to decide directly or defend directly initiatives in this Parliament. So we are not faced with a proposal that really advocates the direct participation of citizens in this Parliament. What we are now, as we said in the previous speech, is in the face of an initiative which is to redecorate and shorten the participation of citizens in this Parliament, and to put limits on what is already a common practice. I gave you an example: we're defending several initiatives, one in the form of a law – you're going in the form of a law, I'm thinking about it. Because not only the legislative initiative, a bill on the prohibition of the use of cyanide written directly by the ecologicalist associations, but also other initiatives, such as the prohibition of the use of lead in ammunition, which also literally drafted other types of entities and associations. So these kinds of formulations, already normally and without all these obstacles, are now being made, with which there is no greater kind of contribution. Because what you don't say is that there is no rule in these proposals that requires any debate, but that depends on the will of the groups that can be initiatives. And you don't say that those same initiatives, for example, in the case of non-legislative proposals, can be amended by the People's Group and radically change the meaning of those initiatives, just like many of the laws that you have taken into consideration in this plenary at the initiative of the opposition that they were then turned around, which radically changed their meaning. That seems to us to be fraudulent from a point of view that is the objective that was pursued with these changes. You also said it here very clearly: the PP is against the direct participation of citizens. Yes, yes, you only accept representation, because that's what comes out of this rule. Why are you afraid and not accept the amendments in which we say that the debate on these initiatives is mandatory, and that they are not going to compute them to take the initiative of the groups but to add up? Because you're not adding greater capacity for action, which is subtracting from groups. Because at a time when, in order to be able to debate this initiative, you have to go to the detriment of the group's initiative capacity, you also know that they're cheating. Similarly, what I would say to you, who demands rigour, is that you come here with rigour, too, Mrs. Paula Prado. Because I don't know if you know it, but the first popular legislative initiative, the first law that was passed during the democratic government in this country between 2005 and 2009 – that after losing the PP there was an absolute majority democratically there was a government that was part of the BNG Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Group – was a popular legislative initiative in defense of the rivers. Has it been approved, debated, or not in that legislation? You made a statement here that no popular legislative initiative had been adopted, that none had been debated; therefore, Mrs Prado, I don't know if you're going to rectify because you have a wrong data or you're going to fall back on the lie. It's also curious that I mentioned Vigo's metropolitan area. As far as I know, if it isn't wrong for Agora, which I just consulted, the signatures of that ILP were validated in December 2008. The elections were convened in January of the following year, and it's funny that you come here to talk to us about the Vigo metropolitan area when they put all this in a drawer. I think it's better that all you guys did was cheap demagogy on this subject, as you're doing right now. I also recommend that you ask your Parliamentary Spokesman better in relation to what happened at the Speaker's Board, because the People's Parliamentary Group has twice vetoed that we may debate the creation of a committee of inquiry on the very serious and dramatic accident of Angrois. And the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, on at least two occasions, has vetoed the possibility that a law should be debated to request the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia. So if you censor that kind of practice, I imagine, the next time the BNG Parliamentary Group or another group requests that the case investigation commission or the Angelis accident investigation commission be included on the agenda so that it can be debated, you will vote in favour and not against, as you have done so far. So what we understand here is that you come here without arguments, lying about the reality of the facts, because you have an initiative that has so little silence and that it is so undefensible that, as always, you have to dwindle, jam the ground and try to divert attention to the important thing. Why, Mrs Prado, do you not accept the amendments to be the promoters of those initiatives that defend them from living voice in this Parliament? Why do you not accept that these initiatives do not or do not remain the initiative of the groups? What is your fear of the direct participation of citizens? Because if we really are making people, through this rule, have to collect signatures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u20	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u21	...making an initiative, registering it here, the logical thing is that this whole process will come to an end here naturally and not that we're doing a democratic fiction like what you're doing, that what you're doing is bureaucraticizing the relationship between citizens and parliamentary groups, because they're not really contributing anything relevant to participation. But the most serious thing is that all this is done to distort another very important debate today, which is the cut-off of initiatives, of how you want to numb the opposition, of how you are cutting citizens' rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u22	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u23	...and how we really are living a new and a great involution, in which you seem to assume a new despotism, but I think it's an unimposed despotism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u24	On the amendments, on the amendments, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u25	Thank you very much. Yes, as we have done in the Commission, we will support all the amendments of the AGE Group, all the amendments of the Joint Group. And in the Socialist Group we will only support Amendment No 7 and in the rest we will abstain, because they are in contradiction with many of the amendments that we stand for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u27	Strangely enough, I cannot help but marvel at Mrs Prado's ability to stir up a climate of focused and rigorous debate, always with lucid contributions and geared towards political progress. And a preliminary clarification that I would like to make: it's hard to improve citizen participation in institutions when these citizens' institutions are increasingly moving away from them where they reflect the political decision-making areas that are relevant to these institutions. It is not possible to grant omnicious powers to a troika that decides on the life and future of people and countries and then to claim citizen participation, for not recalling the recent events in Greece and the tremendous scandal that has sparked in the conservative ranks that a people might think about a transcendental issue for their lives. That's right, then you come to this Parliament to defend your participation. What kind of participation? We cannot drown the functioning and financing of the municipalities as institutions closest to the lives of citizens, neighbors and neighbors, empower the provincial deputies as basicly cacycist institutions and then say that it is intended to improve the participation of citizens in the institutions. An express constitutional reform, such as that of the reform of article 135, cannot be allowed by conditioning the viability of the social state, which was, on the other hand, enshrined in the constitutional frontispicium, without even convening a referendum to carry out anything more and nothing less than the modification of the sacred Constitution. It cannot finally fill your mouth with the word "participation" but by means of the facts, every day more, take measures of an absolutely antidemocratic character. And that's what happens, and that's why this debate is nothing more than a play of postures, a posture, said otherwise. And we could put a lot more examples than in practice they understand the governments on the right by participation, which is always an exercise in the protection of citizenship and permanent deception. Because we could also talk about how we can talk about participation when many of the initiatives adopted in this Parliament, even with the support of the majority group itself, are not being carried out. We can talk, as mentioned here, about what has been done with a popular legislative initiative referring to the health services of the Lucus Augusti Hospital, which has been completely distorted, which has been completely debased and which, above all, is in breach. That's what the People's Party understands by participation. But what is the Government's real commitment to the initiatives adopted, to the non-law proposals adopted in this room? I'm talking about the implementation of the initiatives. How can we talk about participation when budgets are painted on many occasions that are not yet implemented, when initiatives are voted on with certain interventions that are finally not carried out? And so one day after another. And that's why what happens, that citizenship is moving away from institutions. I insist, please, that Mrs Prado take a look at the section of "lexisla con nous": zero comments, zero contributions, when we're talking about fundamental laws for the future of Galicia. That's the result. Participation is much more than a statement of intent. We, of course, believe that this intention cannot be ignorance, when Mrs Prado strives to confuse participatory democracy with direct democracy. I suppose it's not ignorance but an attempt to manipulate and deceive citizenship. We didn't talk about direct democracy, you did. We speak of participatory democracy, obviously, of course, if we are not afraid of the participation of citizenship, because we understand that it is the depositary holder of this democratic system. As far as amendments to the opposition groups are concerned, we are going to maintain the sense of our vote in committee. There was unfortunately no point of judgment in this debate that would allow that sense to be changed. We are going to support them in a generic way in the case of the Joint Group, also in the case of the Nationalist Block Group of Wales. And in the case of those of the Socialist Group, let us abstain from their amendments except in paragraph 7, for the reasons we express in the committee itself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u29	Mr President, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of all the amendments of the other opposition groups for the same reasons I made yesterday in the debate of the first text. We believe that, in addition to nuances, they pursue a substantial improvement in a rule that I have already qualified enough. Mr. Prado, I recognize that you have been doing an important job today, because where there is no matter, it is very difficult to arouse the interest of the House. You appealed to Ferrol, appealed to the government many years ago, appealed to multiple experiences, to try to at least provoke some passion, which obviously does not provoke the text you present. Unfortunately, that interest, that effort you made, he didn't have enough conviction to change the sense of our vote. Because, Mrs Prado, do you really think in your group that 2,500 people have to come together to formulate a modest non-law proposal that will be taken into consideration or not, and that, if taken into consideration, in 82% of the cases, according to historical data, will be discarded? I think it's very strong. Do you know how many signatures the Socialist Group asks citizens when they propose anything? No one, and I imagine the other opposition groups are doing their own thing. But what's the point of asking for a minimum number of people for initiatives they won't participate in? I think you guys there had a lapsus, who probably took the idea somewhere and got wrong with the figures. It's not possible to create 2,500 signatures for a bill. And you say that we will vote against that and that the citizens must know. Yes, they must know, they must know that we're not going to ask them for 2,500 or 250 or 25 or one. But, Mrs. Prado, it's in common sense. And you say that citizens can ask questions in the log that will be lucky for what? Or limbo? Do we resuppress the limbo, that medieval theology construction? We're in the 21st century, Mrs. Prado. Look, it's true that we witnessed the current democracies, of course, in a crisis of representative democracy. It is true that the legislative function continues to reside in parliaments. It is true that the function of government control continues to be done in parliament and, above all, usually the choice of government. But it is no less true that in parliament there is no longer the monopoly of political debate. The political debate now takes place in a multitude of channels, it is made in channels that we all follow or in specialized channels or in professional areas, etc. And so parliament has to evolve. It is very difficult – there are many theories – to know where to go, but if there is a constant: parliaments are evolving towards greater openness to society. And that opening has to be based on the very principles of the time we're at. And at the time we are, gentlemen, you demand immediateness, you demand a level of face to face, of direct confrontation with the citizen, of listening to his demand, of taking part in it, and, as far as possible, giving an answer. I've mentioned some examples of how you can do this before. It can be done by revitalizing the Committee on Petitions, by opening the door for citizens to participate in all the proceedings of a proposal they present. What makes no sense is complicated and bureaucratic through the record. The log performs several different functions. Like a citizen with 2,500 backup signatures will see that all this is lost in a bureaucratic processing? How will you be averse to what is happening with your initiative or depend that it is taken into consideration by one of the five parliamentary groups? The normal thing is to make a much simpler journey, which is to visit each of the five groups or directly reach an agreement with one of them. So that the 2,500 signatures? And so I could talk about other aspects of this text. So from the very first moment we said that this text had no content, and from the first moment we said that it either repeated what was already in the rule of the year 14 or it was either issues that were being discussed in parallel, and with something more rigor, in the corresponding statement of the Rules of Procedure, that we would then talk about. And that's why I have to reiterate once again that, with Mrs Prado's full warning, this group will consciously vote not on such an empty norm of content. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the word donna Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, I, starting at the end, Mr. Méndez, actually, 2,500 companies don't even make up 1% of Galician population. The truth is, if you want to give it the chance to introduce legislation into Parliament, to legislate, less than 1% of the population, the truth is, I don't know, take the tie off and pass it on to another group, because to me the truth is this new Socialist Party surprises me, right? Mrs. Pontón, don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't say we were against citizen participation, no, no, no. I said, I spoke of representative democracy, direct democracy, which is what you want, and we still support representative democracy. And the hottest thing is Mr. Sánchez, isn't it? I mean, if I really thought it was innovation, innovation... If you don't let him speak in your group, ask permission, but I'm not guilty that you won't be allowed to speak, Mr. Fajardo... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u33	Look, the truth is that if I looked like an innovation, as far as citizen participation is concerned, ask 7,000 firms to speak to a mayor, because of course, if the AGE model is now Greece, which sets in motion a referendum to vote something that was already expired, citizens vote that "no" and despite voting that "no", because they do what Troika asks, the truth is that it is very innovative, Mr. Sánchez; all for the people but without the people, that is their model. [[Murmurs.]] We allow me to disagree with that model, and we don't agree to make a referendum so as not to adopt what citizens want, even though it's expired. But man, it's a little unfortunate that you bring to this gallery the Greek model after what happened, isn't it? But well, there you are. And you say that the "Lexisla with us," as you have no comments, then, well, we suppress it. Man, no. We think it's an interesting mechanism, it's a mechanism of participation and it's there. Your amendments go in line to suppress it. For we are not going to accept those amendments that seek to suppress a mechanism of participation that we consider interesting, regardless of whether, at the moment, because it has been working very little time, because citizenship has not used it. Do you also want to participate in the debate, Mrs. Paz? I'm not responsible for your groups not letting them talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, well, look, Mrs. Pontón, you're clear that they introduced the rivers, because it had already come from the past legislation, but they left at least three without debate. Look, the support network for pregnant women, it met requirements on January 17, 2008, it took 17 months to introduce it. I let her speak, Mrs. Pontón; calm, calm, that there is for all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, at high office, at the plus of high office; I was in a position to be debated... No, it's not a threat, that lets me talk, it's a threat that lets me talk, Mrs. Pontón, but I understand that in their party what they practice is totalitarianism, but we usually, when they speak one, the rest listen. [[Murmurs.]] See, the requirements met for the legislative initiative of plus high office was July 10, 2008. What was going on here? Were there any elections, Mrs. Pontón? And look, the one in the Vigo metropolitan area, because look, I'm going to pass it; indeed, elections were called in January; if you had, as we now have, a law that obliges you to take into consideration in the first or second plenary, as the People's Party has done since 2009, it had to have introduced you in the plenary of December. Didn't they enter it? Well, they didn't introduce it, but they didn't even introduce others who were in a position to be debated. No, you have no justification, Mrs. Pontón. Well, we have to say, indeed, what we are going to vote for here today. So today we are going to vote on a rule that introduces new mechanisms for participation. We have already made progress in the final reform of the 14th in the reduction of signatures to adopt popular legislative initiatives, introduce the electronic signature and the deadline of what I've already spoken about. We now incorporate a new mechanism of participation, promoted by the Bureau and the Presidency of the House, to facilitate citizen participation and bring closer to legislators, which is the Lexisla with us, and two new mechanisms: non-law proposals and questions, thus making it easier for Greeks and Greeks to feel involved in parliamentary activity by introducing the debate on these matters. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating or approving a law that I would call it R & D+P: institutions, more democracy and more participation. Galicia is the autonomous community of Spain with more mechanisms for citizen participation in the autonomous Parliament. And if more participation involves more democracy and democracy is the unity that exists between the people and the state, we can say that Galicia is the most united community in its people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u34	Thank you very much. Debates and votes on the opinion drawn up by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Regulation of the Galician Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u35	They remain for the full amendment of the Joint Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Article 1 of the Proposal for a Reform Act of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, subject to debate, partially amends the current Regulation, amendments which, according to the last provision of the present Parliament's Rules of Procedure, require a final vote by an absolute majority. Article 2 of the proposed law on discussion amends Article 48 of Law 1/1983, of February 2, and regulates the Union and its presidency. As this law is a basic development law of the Autonomy Statute, its approval requires an absolute majority in a final vote of all. The votes will take place after the ordinary votes of the amendments and before the remaining joint text of the dictation at the end of this item. The Vice-President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Mr Miguel Santalices Vieira, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u36	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. The bill of Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 9 February 2015, with settlement number 33374. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 9 February 2015, admitted to this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia. At the plenary meeting on 9 June 2015, the bill was taken into consideration. Subsequently, the Bureau, at its meeting on 16 June 2015, heard the Speaker's Meeting, agreed to its proceedings by the Committee of the Rules of Procedure and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the joint, which ended on 29 June 2015. The amendments tabled by the Bureau of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure were 83 out of 37 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, 15 of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 6 of the Galician Parliamentary Group and 25 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, at its meeting on 30 June 2015, appointed the following rapporteurs: Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Ms Marta Rodríguez Arias as holder and Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga as alternate; Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. José Luis Méndez Romeu as owner and Don. Carmen Gallego Calvar as alternate; Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left, Fr.Antón Sánchez García as holder and Fr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Rejous as alternate; Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Ms. María Terixea Paz Franco as holder and Fr. Francisco Xesú Jorquera Caselas as alternate; and Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms. María Consuelo Martínez García as holder and Mrs. Carme Igles Sueiro as alternate. The Constitutive Session of the European Parliament took place on 30 June 2015, with the assistance of the Chairmanship of the Committee of the Rules of Procedure, and the following meetings were held thereafter: on 1, 2, 6 and 9 July 2015. These amendments and the text of the bill have been examined and the work entrusted with the drafting of its report has been completed, which has been discussed and approved by the Commission on 17 July. The joint text of the proposal for a Parliament Regulation reform law is drawn up in two articles: first article, amending the Parliament Regulation, second article, as a result of the previous article, reforming Article 48 of the Act of the Union and its President. Article 1 contains 19 points, amending the Articles of the Regulation relating to the right of information of the Members to economic perception, the declaration of goods and rights and the declaration of activities and the accounting of parliamentary groups, the budget of Parliament, the committees of inquiry, the creation of the transparency portal, ordinary sessions, legislative presentations, budgetary representations before the Commission 3a. We also welcome the debate on the general policy of the Autonomous Community, its processing, the regulatory deadlines for the inclusion of interpellations, questions in full and commission and lastly changes in the substance of the interpellations and the questions of the President of the Union are regulated. The second article amends Article 48 of the Act of the Union and its President on the annual general policy debate, so that there is an identical regulation in both texts. Here, with this summary that has just been presented, it begins its parliamentary process. It is therefore up to this House today to conclude the substance by giving its opinion on the ruling of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I therefore call for the debate to take place. Nothing else, Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u37	Thank you very much, Vice President. We then begin with the debate, with the turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are faced with an unnecessary bill, since it does not solve any of the problems of this House's functioning, centered, in my view, on the lack of democracy, lack of transparency, isolation of reality and excessive obstacles to access to citizenship. However, this unnecessary bill has been used by the People's Party and the Socialist Party to collect the changes that interest them as majority groups, making sure that any action needs approval from either of the two parliamentary groups. All amendments to the Joint Group, except those concerning the creation of the non-attached deputy figure, were rejected in which we agreed with the PP not to support it. We do not understand that the existence of first and second Members, with group rights and no group rights, is proposed, although they want to be grouped. We do not understand it merely in any interest to put the interests of the governing body above the ethics of Members and Members. This is the only way in which Members and Members who are not affixed are reduced to those who voluntarily leave their group or are expelled from it. It will not apply by involvement in corruption crimes or when a coalition is broken, only for Members and Members of Parliament who are dissociated with the support apparatus. Nor did it guarantee more rights to citizenship. Thus, all amendments promoting the active participation of the citizenry, such as Amendment 9, which adds a new point 5 to Article 48, were rejected, which intended to facilitate that citizens' representative entities in the Committee on Petitions might defend non-law proposals and ask questions to the Board. Or Amendment 10, which amends Article 52(1), so that the plenary session of the Galician Parliament, on a proposal for a popular initiative, can agree to the establishment of a commission of inquiry on any matter of public interest; it can only automatically establish a commission of inquiry by legislation, regardless of events. Nor was it agreed to reduce the number of votes necessary to agree on the establishment of an investigative committee, proposed in Amendment No 11, which amends Article 52(1), from third to fifth of the total of the House. So they make sure that matters such as the English accident cannot be the subject of parliamentary investigation, thus circumventing the political responsibilities that might exist. Amendment 15 to article 114 bis was also rejected, so that the citizenship of Greece, through the associations representative of their interests and duly registered, could introduce amendments to the articulated to the bills and bills, without exception, so that the text of the bill that says, "except those who come on subjects excluded from the popular legislative initiative" is removed. I believe that any matter that affects the life of the Galicians and the Greeks is of their own interest and must therefore be open to the active participation of citizenship, as well as in this active participation of citizenship should be able to participate in people over 16 years old, because, as was said in the previous debate, they are obliged to comply, they are old enough to understand the law and therefore have a responsibility to comply with it, but they are not considered mature, however, to vote for them or to participate in their development. Amendment 18 was also rejected, adding a new Article 114a, where it is requested that in the defence proceedings in committee or in full, in its case, of the amendments, the person designated by the commission shall be heard by the sponsor. It cannot be prevented, it is a lack of flagrant democracy to prevent the citizenry from being addressed directly to this Parliament through a spokesperson when it is required to group and to collect signatures in order to present proposals. What's less! it's already a question of citizenship to listen directly to them so they can explain their reasons. We also maintain Amendment 21, which adds a new point 4 to Article 144, which seeks to add the following text: "The appearances requested by two parliamentary groups together will be included in the agenda of the first plenary session to be held after the application log". We believe that it is essential in democracy that when more than one group requires a particular theme to be attended automatically at the first plenary session, but it seems that the People's Party is not going to bring democracy closer to the participation of all parliamentary groups. However, it uses the People's Party to introduce an amendment to Article 149 so that interventions in the interpellations are reduced to an interpelent group and to the Government; that is, they legalize what they have been doing so far illegally. The President's allergy to his presence led the People's Party to refuse ordinary plenary meetings to include questions from all parliamentary groups, limiting them to three in full, regardless of how many groups conform to the House. In this way, the People's Party manages to amend the regulation which is being applied irregularly and which aims to minimize the control function of the opposition. And this is called transparency. There can be no transparency when precisely this control function is limited, when questions that can be asked to the Government are limited. That's not transparency. In short, this proposal not only cannot solve any of the problems of the House but it does increase discrimination by establishing first and second Members, first and second parliamentary groups. But it not only limits the rights of Members and Members, minority groups, but also of the Greeks and the Greeks who gave them their vote. Thus, there will be citizens of first and second. First-class citizens who voted either the People's Party or the Socialist Party and are second-class citizens of the rest of the citizens who did not vote for those parties, voted for others, or even those who abstained. Because you don't rule for the Greeks and the Greeks, you rule for the voters of the People's Party. In a genuine image-washing campaign, the People's Party and the Socialist Party are proposing an amendment to the House's Rules of Procedure that far from bringing the institution closer to citizenship keeps away from this and limits its direct participation in matters directly relevant to it. We regret that democracy does not reach the ranks of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which, as we can see today, are more concerned about binding institutions towards their next electoral defeat than about solving the problems of the social majority. We regret that the future is not part of the electoral and political programmes of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. To look into today's demands for direct democracy, this contrasting with a representative democracy, is all an alarm of hypocrisy. It has nothing to do with representation in the House in the Greeks and the Greeks, with the possibility that they may address their representatives directly in this House. You're denying citizenship rights. So, it doesn't surprise us, because of course their arts over the years have shown that they always use most to impose their criteria and that they have no idea what dialogue is and what negotiation is. This was seen in the debate of this bill: three meetings, where practically there was no debate, only, as always, as is the case in almost all the bills or bills, a genuine vassal of the People's Party, which neither listens to reasons nor gives reasons to deny the approval of the amendments of the opposition. We regret that the Socialist Party permanently abandons the path of participatory democracy and joins the People's Party in a desperate strategy to maintain the bipartisan system. Many of the MPs of the People's Party may be pleased. To me, of course, the lack of democracy, the steps behind the citizen's participation, the denial of rights to citizenship, the violation of his right, as was done with the proposed law of the HULA, seems to me of course a real scandal, a lack of flagrant democracy, and which, of course, should be somehow punished this fraud of democracy and this fraud of the Greek citizenship. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We started this period of extraordinary sessions in the month of January, and ended it also in extraordinary period, in August, and talking curiously about the same matters. It began on January 27 when Mr. Núñez Feijóo saw here ampulently in a plenary which he called for democratic regeneration and anti-corruption in this country, in which he announced fifty measures in fifty days to re-establish democracy in our country and to fight corruption. Well, not fifty days, but more than six months ago, what we see is that those announcements made by Mr. Núñez Feijóo are the best way to become the fifty shadows of the fraud of democracy in our country. This proposal for a law which we are going to discuss next, like other items on the agenda of the plenary we are developing, is a real blow to democracy, because we have already found in the debate of this whole non-legislative proposal that by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we did not question the need to amend a regulation of this Parliament which is virtually in force in its current drafting, except for some nuance, since the year 93 and that from the point of view of the Nationalist Block Galego should be modified in four fundamental respects. One aspect that has to do with boosting the existence of greater democracy in the functioning of Parliament, for which we have always argued that it was important from this group, that it was necessary to provide the regulation of instruments that put more and better the political pluralism in society, that they run away from that option, which has so well defended Mrs Prado in her previous intervention, to enhance only the political positions of the majority parties. That we needed an amendment to the regulation so that it had a more agile functioning and a greater immediate response to the problems of citizenship, that there was greater transparency in the functioning of Parliament and that elements of the real participation of citizenship in Parliament were also promoted so that, in addition to being able to exercise their control and participation through parliamentary groups and Members, through representative democracy, they could also do so directly through participation in this Parliament. Although we agree with the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, we voted that 'no' should be taken into account by this bill because it was already possible for the debate to take into account that the People's Party would take this opportunity offered by the Socialist Parliamentary Group through the formulation of this initiative to eliminate democratic rights which it had already eliminated in practice, which had already been effectively eliminated in the democratic functioning of this Parliament. That the People's Party wouldn't shake its hand to take another step in the annulment of our country. Of course, with this initiative it is clear that the Government of Greece does not believe in this country, does not believe in Galicia, and therefore it will be supported by those institutions, such as the German Parliament, which represent the sovereignty of the Greek people. I have many doubts, and in my group we have many doubts, that the People's Party was willing to make an improvement in the functioning and competences and democratic capacity, for example, of the State Parliament, for example of the Congress of Deputies, that this for the People's Party is indeed a real parliament and not like this, that does not correspond to a people who want to recognize their sovereignty. The People's Party, through this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, will of course achieve a goal. You have already passed a law at the state level to numb the whole people and now you will also pass a law through this law to numb this Parliament too, constituting an increasingly weakened society and democracy. Of course we had no doubt, and today it will be concluded that the People's Party would take this opportunity to increasingly convert this Parliament, the Greek Parliament, into a mere terminal, increasingly changing the power to be, the Government of Galicia. And of course, the Galician Nationalist Block will not contribute to its complicity. There were some elements in the bill that we agreed with, such as measures to strengthen transparency, such as measures to clarify more thoroughly the duties of Members and Members, to simplify the time for them to be able to include on the agenda the initiatives of Members and Members and parliamentary groups, proposals to extend the duration of sessions, which we therefore consider important elements to be introduced in this amendment. However, there are other aspects that for us were not minor that were included in the initial text that were absolutely cherished by the People's Party. One is all that has to do with the participation of citizenship, which, as has just been discussed in the previous initiative, the People's Party, as in almost everything, only plays the fireworks. It is curious that Mrs. Prado here defends the need to collect 2,500 signatures so that a non-law proposition can be processed when we all know that then the Government, even if that non-law proposition was adopted, is not in any obligation to comply with it. And, as we know, the last doctrine of the Bureau of this Parliament is that those legal provisions in which it does not explicitly impose a penalty for its failure to comply with them do not entail any kind of penalty. So, indeed, as Mrs Pontón said, this is a real citizen's hair jacket, which takes the work of collecting 2,500 signatures so that at best, if any group decides to assume it, and in most cases, if the People's Party decides to vote in favour, it will end up in the drawer of the Director General for Relations with Parliament of Galicia. Well, I suppose the People's Party still has the opportunity to reconsider and vote in favour of Amendment No 2 from the BNG Parliamentary Group, which proposes the introduction of a new Article 48a and which is truly involved in citizenship in the life of Parliament, which is given the opportunity to come here to defend its proposals, to effectively control the Government, through the creation of a citizen participation commission. Another element which we also considered to be of some relevance and which had already been addressed on previous occasions in this Parliament was the regulation of the non-attached Members and Members. I am not surprised, of course, that the People's Group does not want to regulate that situation which, as you all know, is a very important element in penalizing transfuguism and in penalizing those Members and Members who, by changing their vote or by changing their membership, may favour motions of censure. And I say it doesn't surprise me – given what's happening in Boimorto – that some people finally didn't want to cause this amendment in the Rules to really punish transfuguism when it happens in practice. For the Galician Nationalist Block, of course, the most relevant change in this regulation is the right cut of parliamentary groups. We had already said in our consideration that the main concern about the orientation of this amendment was that it was in many proposals to introduce criteria of even greater proportionality in the capacity of the parliamentary groups, and we have always argued that the only way to guarantee democracy in a parliament was to guarantee the equal rights of parliamentary groups, that all parliamentary groups must have the same own initiative capacity and above all the same control capacity over the Government, that proportionality, indeed, already established it by means of its vote, granting everyone their representation, that the only way to really guarantee political pluralism and the representativeness of the political pluralism of society in a parliament was to guarantee the equal rights of all parliamentary groups and that they all have the same control capacity, regardless of their size. Ladies and gentlemen, respect for pluralism is not just a stop to political minorities, but the same ability to exercise politics and to exercise the representation that has been granted to them and to citizens. That is why, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we consider the cut introduced in Parliament's Rules of Procedure to be absolutely intolerable. As you all know, in this part-session for the first time since the existence of the German Parliament, there were parliamentary groups that we had no right to discuss the Government of Galicia at many plenary meetings, when in previous legislates there was an agreement, an agreement, at the Council of Spokespersons, and legislative agreements, which ensure that all parliamentary groups could present interpellations, even up to two, and not only in the legislates where there were only three parliamentary groups here, but if we go back to the top, in legislations where there were so many parliamentary groups as currently exist. But it has also been consumed in this session for the first time in the history of this Parliament since the possibility of asking questions to the President of the Galician Union that there were parliamentary groups that were deprived of that right to ask the President of the Galician Union, despite the fact that it was explicitly collected in the interpretative rule of the Rules of Procedure that all parliamentary groups would have the right to ask the President of the Union at each ordinary plenary session to be held. This bill gives the People's Party the opportunity to change a law that they know was being violated and therefore they know that from now on, from the entry into force of this law, they can without any consequence, without any fear that the Constitutional Court would annul that provision, apply that cut of rights to citizenship, apply that bite to parliamentary groups, apply that bite so that it cannot be submitted to the President of the Galician Council to the questions of all parliamentary groups to bring here also the voice of citizenship. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the refusal to include in this regulation the guarantee that all parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u41	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u42	...have a question at each ordinary plenary meeting. It is absolutely entrepreneurship that there was a refusal to ensure that each parliamentary group had at least one interpellation at each plenary session, and also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this amendment of the Rules of Procedure leaves on paper the agreement that had been reached so far to ensure that at least every plenary session each group had the right to ask the Government two questions. That's right. In return, the People's Party is giving us the opposition groups the possibility of setting up an investigation commission. And I say the paripé because in practice in this legislation, and with the wording it is given, it would still be impossible to create the Committee on Research on the Accident of Angles, because it continues to demand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u44	...that there are 25 Members who sign, if they are from the same group, and 30 Members, if they are from two different groups, which once again consolidates the positions of the majority parties and leaves us in inequality of conditions and, therefore, in inequality to exercise that representative democracy, which both defended Mrs Prado at the previous point, and in inequality of conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u45	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u46	That's why it doesn't contain the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to address democracy once again from this Parliament. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u48	Yesterday we lived in this House the first act of consummation, I think it's embarrassing, and even pornographic, of what my partner called "summer idyll." But I think it's not only toxic, embarrassing and pornographic but it's clear that it's unsatisfactory. And there is nothing worse than having a relationship and that this is unsatisfactory, because even yesterday, in the results of the vote, it was clear that at least a large part of the Members of either group did not vote for that agreement, which is an absolute shame. And it's a shame because in this process that's trying to consolidate, it's an element that must already be outside the history of this country, which is the process by which the institutions are linked to citizenship and which is about strengthening a bipartisanism that is wounded but that you want to revive as well. And that's so much so that during yesterday's day they came to agreements in such important ballots as to leave out of any possibility of control over CRTVG or also of any possibility of control over the Board of Auditors. But it's not random. The People's Party – and now with the help of the Socialist Party – is immersed in a deconstitutional process, where they're trying to degrade this country by cutting back on their democracy and self-government, and a country that has a camera that's breathingly assisted like this and that you're tightening up today's only way of oxygen that they had, which was to regain citizenship for this House, which means that you don't believe in the country. You cannot understand that you had done a great act of demagogy and false publicity, suggesting that this reform of the regulation meant greater control and greater control of the Government, when reality is quite different. The reality is that you used this reform that made it easier for the Socialist Party. Because it's true, it's the one who put on the screen that you wanted to change the rights of the parliamentarians of this country; it was thanks to the Socialist Party's initiative; and what they got is that we had our captive capacities to control the Government. A democratic chamber cannot permit documentation to be given to opposition groups – we still wait for the documentation of the boxes –; a democratic chamber cannot allow this country not to constitute an investigation commission for the English accident – bipartisanism is denied, certainly because they have something to hide; a democratic chamber cannot allow it to seem excessive to the Government group that the president confronts every fifteen days to not answer the questions they ask from the opposition. So today you are able to transfer to the law a reform that already prevents even those democratic children who had this Parliament. And an example of that bipartisan pact was Phoenicianism itself. Our group refused to participate in amendments in that Phoenicia because we knew it was a farce, a bipartisan agreement to remove rights, and it was real that it was a farce. Those who participated in that Phoenicia, according to the People's Party as observers—we were not observers, we were not even blue helmets, there was no battle that...; we were neither able nor capable of being blue cases; there was agreement, there was no battle—we observed that in that Phoenicia the agreement was shown to be real and that there was an intention of bipartisanism to consolidate the cuts of rights, because the amendments that were presented by other groups, such as the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block Galego, were not debated. It didn't take a second to debate any of the amendments of the other two opposition groups, either the BNG or the Joint Group. It was clear, therefore, that the reality was that you wanted to use this Parliament to cut down rights and move a regulation which will, from now on, consolidate the possibility that it will be given to this Parliament that whoever directly decides to be the Bureau of Parliament. They value the Bureau of Parliament each of the important decisions, for example, it will be the Bureau of Parliament who decides whether or not to ask the President and it will be the Bureau of Parliament who decides whether or not to ask the members of the Government, because the amendment agreed at the last hour with the agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party removes an agreement that was already really regressive, which was to put a top of three questions from the opposition and from the whole of the group to the president, and transfers it to the sole possibility that it is directly the House, through the Bureau, who decides whether or not to ask the President and the whole of the Government. Moreover, it will be the Bureau itself who decides proportionality; therefore, we are faced with a very important retreat. I wonder what problem the president of this country has in coming before this House to answer each of the questions of the opposition groups; what problem he has, because, when he comes, he doesn't answer. What problem does a president have that he was able to walk with drug traffickers through the Arousa River and that he hasn't yet responded to whether that relationship had anything to do with his government actions at that time as the high position of the Galician Union? Therefore, we are faced with an unacceptable setback, because, in addition, it is a question of presenting as an advance; for example, it is presented as an advance to the amendment of Article 9. In a democratic country, when opposition groups ask the Government for information, what we need is the documentation to be delivered to them, or at least access to such documentation wherever it is. We still don't know where those documents were that disappeared by a supposed drowning of documents. How is it possible that the progress of bipartisanism on Article 9 is that, as they do not reply, they can turn that request for information into a commission question? That's right, a question in committee that distracts you from the fact that you have the rest of the questions in committee, so we're taking rights away from all groups of the opposition. How can it be considered that it is a step forward that can be set up a research commission a year automatically – yes, automatically when 25 members of a group, or 32; i.e. more than they were necessary now? And how can it be considered when, in addition, the drafting of this article of the Committee of Inquiry determines that it is possibly only the commission of inquiry that can be done? What you're doing is you're eliminating the little ability to control this government. And we wondered – and this is the time to ask, because the victims recently claimed again: can the People's Party go out here today to this atrium...? I mean, why is the English Research Committee twice denied and vetoed? Why does the People's Party not want this country's citizenship to know what happened at that time and why the People's Party not only not only investigated the political leaders of that accident but also gave them a prize – some of them converted us into ministers and others into top officials of the administration? So this reform has something to point out because they are very important setbacks: the inability that we are going to have from now on to the groups to present interpellations in each of the plenary, the inability and the reduction of time in the debate of budgets. How is it possible to eliminate the separate debate in the plenary room itself on budgets? How is it possible that this can only be moved to this separate debate in committees by obviating the necessary debate of each section in this plenary session and where it is supposed to be where the sovereignty of the whole country resides? You seem to be uncomfortable with democracy, you seem to be uncomfortable with control. And they're uncomfortable because they understand a government fact that's not what citizenship is asking for. Citizenship demands more transparency and more control. And when we tell them that this is not the time for a reversal of Members' rights, they say that this allows for more transparency. And the argument raised, for example, by Mr. Méndez Romeo for the transparency of this agreement is that from now on the accounts of parliamentary groups, i.e. the official accounts of the revenue we receive from Parliament itself, will be published on a website. Does anyone think that's transparency? We don't have any problems, let's go wherever we need it, put our bills where we need it. But I ask you: will those accounts contemplate the surpluses in "b" of the People's Party?, do they contemplate the works of their headquarters in "b"?, do they contemplate the transfer of hundreds of tens of millions of euros to Switzerland or the Gibraltar of the People's Party itself?, or do they contemplate the illegal financing of the People's Party? There is no problem with being transparent on the part of the People's Party because the accounts in "b", the irregular financing and the arrivals of those companies that later benefit from public contracts never appear in that public accounting. So it's a shame to suggest that this is an advance in terms of transparency. But there are not just the cuts, even on such important issues as the debate on the state of the nation – in this case, the country – you also cut off. And they also cut off the possibility of fewer debates on this content in the whole of the legislation, moving to the text a question that could previously be in the tacit agreement between the groups but which was not written, and which today means that if, for example, in January, there is a new president of the Union, during that whole year there will be no debate on the state of the nation. So we're faced with the formation of what was an idyllius and which is now consumed I don't know if in marriage but at least in stable engagement. You, who were kissing in the corridors of Parliament, who were hiding behind the butchers and the sofas, gave themselves today the big hug and today and yesterday showed that you don't believe in the country, that you don't believe in the need to open the doors of this Parliament to the whole of citizenship. Otherwise, they should explain how they may have been rejected by this law and before the possibility that citizenship would ask directly. And they get an argument from the Socialist Party said in this gallery itself just 20 minutes ago. What's the problem with citizenship asking the government directly? That's what the Socialist Party was asking the People's Party just 20 minutes ago, and I ask the same question: what's the problem with each of this House's groups asking the Government? How is it possible for an argument that serves citizenship to be taken away now for the set of opposition groups? Someone should explain these kinds of inconsistencies if not that everyone is able to vote anything in order to consolidate a status that they know they will lose; that is, we are facing a reform of the regulation which consolidates and improves the rights of majority groups but goes against those who are minorities or the whole of Members individually. I tell them, by responsibility, even looking for yourselves. When the tide rises and much of this country's right of institutional representation disappears, it may be that you are a minority group, and as a minority group, it's time for you to defend your rights as a minority group. I'm sure a new president who actually represents citizenship, let him be open, who understands that he's set here to defend the interests of the social majority and not of the multinationals, that is, not a footman of the capital, will respond not only to the opposition but to the whole citizenship. But it's possible that in another case it's another one, and, therefore, it's not to be welcomed that you cut your rights for just a year or a few months. I therefore hope that, in an act of responsibility, you will reject this proposal that removes rights to minority groups today and possibly to the People's Party within a year and a half. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u49	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, whenever a reform of the Rules of Procedure has taken place in this House, has sought to achieve the greatest possible consensus; in fact, we have always participated in each of the consensus that has been reached and we have always been opposed to making unilateral reforms. This was the spirit of this proposal for reform of the regulation which my colleague and spokesperson, Mr Méndez Romeo, had recently presented a few days ago, an open proposal for improvement by the whole of the groups, although we obviously always defended that it was much more appropriate, to make a reform of the regulation, which we considered necessary and indispensable, to constitute a joint presentation of the groups, as we did in the seventh legislation, when we did not wish to adopt that reform because the People's Party did not agree and therefore wanted to have most of the consensus. That was always the spirit of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It is true that after the Socialist Parliamentary Group had presented this proposal for a regulation to Parliament, the People's Party also submitted a proposal. A proposal, in our judgment, very restrictive, very small, very poor, that only what he did was regulate the questions to the president, incorporated what the state legislation already established in the field of transparency. And, in fact, if that bill were to be dealt with instead of dealing with what we are doing here today, the reform of the Rules of Procedure that would come out of this House would undoubtedly be very small and very poor. We address this reform in a constructive spirit, being also aware, from the very first moment, that there was not the maximum consensus that we would like to make it, but also the need to modernize a rule that is excessively corrosive; so much that it survives through interpretative agreements and so much so that even today it has not included in its content or the debates of the state of autonomy or the questions to the President of the Union, despite the fact that both functions have been done for quite a long time in this Parliament, at least since there are three legislations. It is true that this reform that reaches its final debate today is not the reform that we socialists present at the beginning of it. Normally, when a norm is submitted to consensus and to the agreement of the groups, there are always issues that remain along the way, and which we would like them to be incorporated. We neither banish them nor forget them, we will simply wait for a better opportunity to continue to present them and to be able to move forward and modernise the Rules of Procedure of the House. We're starting from the need to regulate the unsigned. It is true that in this case both the People's Party and the Mixed Group have agreed much more in the presentation than today seems to coincide here. And it is also true that in that speech the BNG and the Socialist Group agreed on the regulation of non-attached persons, because we understood that it was a way of regulating and avoiding political transfuguism and it seemed to us, moreover, that we better guarantee the individual rights of Members and Members. But, as I say, the refusal of the majority group – because the Joint Group has only two votes in this case – made it impossible for non-attached persons to be regulated in this new regulation. We also propose that the Committee on Petitions of the Galician Parliament should play a more active role, and that it should be the channel for the participation of citizens; that is, that the Committee on Petitions should function as, for example, the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, which receives the citizens in the hearing, which makes complaints about citizenship and which responds on behalf of the Government, in this case of the Community institutions. This proposal by the Socialist Group has not been accepted by the majority group and therefore remains for some other reform, which in its day, of course from the Socialist Group, will continue to try. And there is a third issue that has not been accepted by the majority group, and that citizenship can make amendments to the bills, to the bills passed by this Parliament. Yes, there is an improvement in what we have today, and that citizenship will be able to participate in hearing proceedings in the bills that are being passed in this Parliament, which is something that so far cannot be done. That is, when there is a draft law on pharmacy, for example, because the sector that meets that bill may come to this Parliament to participate in that hearing process of that bill and be able to provide. We wanted something that was going much further, and it was that they could even introduce amendments to those bills. He was alone in the hearing process. We think it's all right, it's a breakthrough, but it's certainly not the progress we want. Well, these are the only three issues in the bill that the Socialist Group presented that were not accepted: regulation of non-attached persons, greater openness and greater participation of citizenship in the Committee on Petitions, and that citizenship could present initiatives before the bills or bills coming to this Parliament. That is, of the 24 articles to amend the Socialist Parliamentary Group, only in three there was no agreement, and in many of them, as I say, there was agreement in different phases. For example, the non-attached group and the People's Group agreed to veto it. I will not here qualify the veto of the Joint Group as unaffected as an anti-democratic thing, each one defends from his position his ideas. And for me, the positions of a group with two Members are as respectable as those of a group with seven Members, of a group with eighteen Members or of a group with forty-one Members. I'll obviously disagree with them, but I'm not going to miss them because they disagree with them. The improvements which undoubtedly achieve the reform of the House's Rules of Procedure with this proposal, which was initially the Socialist Group and I believe that fortunately today is a major majority of the House, are obvious. And whoever wants to deny them probably wants to disguise this debate with others. But he won't be able; of course not in my case. This reform of the regulation exercises greater control over the action of the Government. In Article 9, those of whom Members and Members often complain that the Government leaves no reply, that they are ignored by the Government, who does not send us the documentation, will have greater control. How? For, of course, every Article 9 which does not reply to the Government within the prescribed time limit, which is to date thirty days, or which does not properly justify the impossibility of doing so, must, on a committee basis, give account of the honourable Member or Member who requested such documentation, after another thirty days. That is to say, the Government has to come to Parliament to answer why it does not deliver the documentation that we require Members and Members to do our work. Until now what did we have? That they didn't answer and that nothing happened. Now, at least, we have the opportunity to exercise control over the Government to explain to us why they don't want to come or don't want to bring the documentation. A committee of inquiry may be set up in each legislature when 30 Members or Members request it, regardless of which parliamentary group it is, or 25 Members if they belong to a single group. And this is news. We, the Socialist Group, would like it not to be one, but to be more, but this was the agreement we reached. And it's a novelty about any regulation and any autonomous parliament and even the Congress of Deputies or the Senate, because for the first time in a parliament that is not most, that is, the opposition, they're going to be able to automatically present and activate an investigation commission. Of course you'll be able to introduce a lot more, but there'll be a majority whenever you try to prevent it from being investigated. But one by legislation, at least, will be able to present itself to the opposition groups. And it's not just that if you're going to be able to introduce yourself, that investigation commission will be carried out. I insist, it is a novelty in parliamentaryism in Spain, it is the first autonomous parliament to have this possibility. Insufficient because he's just one per legislation? It seems to us that it is, but of course it is a step forward. Budget debate: also greater control over government. Why? Because we have often been protesting opposition groups that in the debate of budgets in this House, in attendance and in commission, only the members of the Government, i.e. those sitting on the board. And we were talking about the need for important spending centres, which had an budget in many cases even superior to some councillorships, such as Sergas or how the Galaga Infrastructure Agency or how Sogama might be, etc., did not appear and therefore did not have to explain the budget they presented, which, on the other hand, as their lords know, are expenditure centers in which, in the accounts they make in Parliament, opacity is the most important thing. So it's important that these spending centres have to come to that commission and take care of it. That will be achieved with this reform of the Rules of Procedure. Some might say that this is involutionism; we think it's, of course, an advance. There will also be greater control over Parliament's budget. In Parliament's budget, together with the rest of the budgets, so far, the control we had was the initial, none more. From now on, the Presidency of Parliament will have to submit, at the end of each economic exercise, a report on the execution of what has been planned for Parliament's expenditure. We believe that this also contributes to greater control over Parliament's presidency and transparency. Of course, there will be much more transparency in what is known about the work of Members and Members of this Parliament; a daily work by Members and Members of this Parliament, because the perceptions of Members and Members subject to the general rules will be known, tax information will be available to citizens, the transparency portal will give you knowledge of parliamentary work, the sense of vote and assistance and absences, and the specific accounting of the parliamentary groups of those expenses that we spend on the subsidies we receive will also be on that published website and at the availability of citizenship. And you will also work more time in this Parliament. Although it is true that, without being regulated in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we have been doing so in recent years, which is also true that we had to be constantly demanding that they be declared wise, months, etc. Well, from now on, Parliament will declare it wise from January 15th – before it was from February 1st – and until July 15th – before it was until June 30th. So we're going to be able to hold more committees and more commissions and, therefore, our ability to control the actions of the Government will be increased. He said before the door to citizenry was opened timidly, no, of course, to the degree that the socialists were asking for, but if social groups for the first time would be able to have a hearing process in the bills. We wanted to go much further. The excuse the People's Parliamentary Group made was that a citizen participation bill was being dealt with. We said in the presentation and reiterated today our spokesperson in the final debate of that law that that law was pure propaganda, pure cosmetics and that it did not resolve the access of citizenship to Parliament. We therefore continue to think that the regulation needs to introduce citizenship to Parliament and we will continue to insist on this proposal. And then, finally, more agility is gained in the processing of parliamentary initiatives. Another constant complaint from Members and Members of this House was the delay in introducing a matter for the debate and what was planned for the debate. It's about getting fresh, that the issues that concern citizens on the street get to Parliament faster. And so we cut down the times, and in the interpellations we spent 15 days to 7 days to be able to deal with each other and in the oral questions in commission and in the full 7 days to 4 days. The final budgetary debate which is always taking place in this plenary is also reduced and the section is no longer discussed, since this is already done in committee and the budget debate is therefore agile. And I am leaving for the end the last agreement that has actually taken place in the committee which has discussed this initiative which today comes to the full...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u51	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u52	...the questions to the president. The Socialist Group made a draft of the questions to the President who left the door open to agreements; that is, a wording which, in the end, is consecrated, which is that the questions to the President can be put at each session, but that the number of questions to be asked to the President is decided between the groups. Well, finally, fortunately, the People's Group opened up for reasons, because it is true that limiting the questions to the President was a matter of concern to the rights of parliamentary groups, given, moreover, that the regulation is not something that changes in all legislations and that there could be a legislation in which there were many more parliamentary groups and therefore that control mechanism was very limited. How is that mechanism of questions left to the president? For in which groups can ask questions to the President, of course. How many questions do you ask the president? That'll be a board of spokespersons, and be sure that from the Socialist Group we'll always try to have as much participation as possible. Just a second, Madam President, for a few questions. I insist that from the Socialist Group we can understand the position of minority groups, the Joint Group or groups which today have many fewer Members and Members of the Socialist Group, and we can understand what their arguments are; what, of course, we will not tolerate from the Socialist Parliamentary Group is that because we have 18 Members and Members we have to ask them for permission or pardon from the other opposition groups to make legislative proposals and to try to move forward in this Parliament. Because, look, it is not the same as having 18 Members or having 2 or having 7; it is not the same. We may have equal rights, but we bet – we always said it clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u53	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u54	...in the presentation of this debate and in the debates that have taken place in this Parliament with regard to the reform of the regulation – due to proportionality. We bet today, that we have 18, we bet when we were 25, and if tomorrow, unfortunately, we have less, because we will continue to bet, because we are consistent with what we think.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u55	Finish, please, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u56	One more question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u57	But finish it now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u58	The modernization of this reform of the regulation and the greater participation and control it introduces, to our judgment, of course, is not a fraud to democracy. A fraud of democracy is to come here to make debates by telling lies. So far I thought lies were the heritage of the People's Parliamentary Group, which, when I had no arguments, used lies. I discovered today that some opposition groups, to cover up other things, also use lies as a political argument. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much. Popular Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what a strange way to understand democracy which some parliamentary groups have in this House! When there is an agreement between the parliamentary groups it is a fraud to democracy, however, when there is an agreement between the minority groups, in certain municipalities, in certain parliaments, to govern, to share charges and responsibilities, and even in those agreements it is possible to participate in a caste party, a party to the regime, then those agreements if they are democracy and those agreements are not fraud to democracy. What a strange way to understand democracy for some Members and for some parliamentary groups! [[Applause]] When the People's Parliamentary Group supported the consideration of the Socialist Group's bill, we did so with the clear will to dialogue, to dialogue with all parliamentary groups; logically, with the group that presented the bill, but also with the rest of the parliamentary groups in the House. The result of this dialogue in the presentation... because I don't know which presentations you attended, but, of course, in the presentation we attended, there was dialogue and that dialogue came up with an agreement which translates into which of the 22 articles of the Rules of Procedure that the Socialist Group's proposal wanted to be modified if we reached an agreement in 19 articles. We are talking about 86% of the socialist proposal being accepted or negotiated. And I want to highlight the participation of the parliamentary groups in the paper because it has been active, although now they want to prove otherwise, and even its participation in agreements that we consider to be fundamental; a presentation in which almost all parliamentary groups have actually participated, because there is a parliamentary group here that denounces that the People's Party wants to numb the opposition when it turns out that they are the ones who have self-absorbed and only decided to participate as observers in this presentation. Therefore, despite those who care about it, the statement we are debating today in this Parliament is a fruit of the joint work of the Members of Parliament and of the parliamentary groups who wanted to participate in this debate. What's wrong? Well, they changed the script after the presentation was finished. You finish the presentation. During the presentation you reach agreements, but finish the presentation and you change the script. They call for a round of thought to denounce discrimination against minority groups, to denounce cuts in Members' rights and to denounce a supposed blockage of bipartisanism. Today, we are going to show that there is no such cut in the rights of Members or the defence of minority groups and, of course, no cuts in the rights of parliamentary groups. First, before the reform of this regulation, parliamentary groups that requested information from the Union and the Union did not give them that information had no alternative mechanisms to claim it. With this reform, parliamentary groups asking for information from the Galician Council and the Union have not forwarded this information have guaranteed the right that the Galician board officer will appear in a commission and orally respond to the information they have requested. Is this right cut? No, ladies and gentlemen, this is a new right, a guarantee of the rights of Members and Members of this House who were not envisaged in the present regulation. We follow up, committees of inquiry. Before, who could set up an investigation commission? Two parliamentary groups or the fifth of the Members and Members of this House, but always, always, with the vote of the absolute majority of the plenary. Who can now create an automatic investigation commission? Now, look, you can create one third of the Members of the same parliamentary group or two fifths of the Members and Members of the House, without taking account of the support of the majority of Parliament. It is therefore clear that this is a right that we have not had Members and Members in the Galician Parliament until now. Moreover, this is a right which no Member or Member of this country has in any democratic parliament. So, where is the cut to democracy?, where is the cut to Members' rights? It is true that a parliamentary group with two Members or a parliamentary group with seven Members cannot set up an investigation commission automatically, but it is also true that they cannot do so either in the present regulation. What is true is that this reform opens the door for 40% of Members to agree – I understand that it is difficult for them to agree between you – and that an automatic investigation commission is created. Look, neither do you agree to extend the session period. Before the Plenary met from September to December and from February to June; now it will meet from January 15 to July 15 and from September to December, one more month. There is only one autonomous parliament in the country that does the same thing as the Galician Parliament, which is the Catalonian Parliament; the rest of the parliaments do not extend their session. And the time is reduced for the initiatives to be included on a full-time or commission agenda. Interpellations go from 15 to 7 days and questions from 7 to 4 days. More agility of parliamentary groups to be able to include their initiatives in a plenary or commission. Where is the right cut of Members?, where is the abuse of minority groups in this House?, where is your defence? Debates of the Committee on Budgets. Before, what was the formula? They removed from the Commission's budget debate 3 the presence of officials from the public sector in Greece, and only those from the councils were present. Now they're going to come not only to the heads of the councils, but also to the officials of the Greek public sector that manages the main spending programs. Perhaps you are in favour of continuing with the Bipartite model and not coming to the heads of the instrumental bodies of the Autonomous Community. In relation to the declaration of property. Earlier, the publication of the declaration of Members' property on the website was voluntary. As a volunteer, there was a well-known Member of this House who refused to present and publish that statement. Other Members of your own parliamentary group presented it late and for deadlines. Now, that statement and that publication will be mandatory. Therefore, there are Members who can no longer escape the publication of their perceptions, the publication of their declaration of property. And this is transparency, gentlemen. I don't know if he's aggressive with a member of Parliament who publishes his heritage and publishes his assistance. I understand that it may be, because at some point they promised they would be millionaire Members, and now the citizens will know the truth of what they collect and really their heritage. We think that's transparency, and you think it's aggression to the minority groups of this House. And it creates a portal of transparency, a portal of transparency where our perceptions, tax information, attendance at the plenary and commissions are to be published, and there is certainly no one who wants their assistance to be published or not assisted at certain plenary sessions. We will also publish our sense of vote, the accounting of parliamentary groups, the report on the execution of Parliament's budget. And we ask ourselves, is it aggressive with minority groups to make public our attendances to plenary and commission, is it aggressive with minority groups to publish our perceptions and tax information? Of course, we don't think so. As far as citizen participation is concerned, what opportunities did citizenship have to participate in this Parliament? I only had the possibility of promoting a popular legislative initiative. Now, with this reform, the various groups can participate in the processing of bills, through a hearing process, directly in Parliament. And besides, you just heard that for the first time, an autonomous community approves a law in which the participation of citizenship is intensified, as is the law of citizen participation. Citizens will therefore be able to participate in the drafting of laws, to present non-law proposals and to present questions to the Government of the Union. Of course, do you think this is to silence the people's voice, do you think this is to isolate the Parliament from Greek citizenship? We, of course, do not think so. The debate on the state of autonomy was not included in the Rules of Procedure, when it was and when it was considered one of the main parliamentary debates, and it came to be held regularly. It is now established in this reform on an annual basis. Are you against it? Are you against it? Before the round of control of the Chair of the Union had not been reflected in the Rules of Procedure, it was not collected in the Rules of Procedure the round of control of the President of the Union, it was only provided for in the supplementary rules of the year 98. What happens now? For now, the questions and the control shift are incorporated into the Rules of Procedure. So this is a guarantee for the parliamentary groups and for their role as control of the Presidency of the European Union at the most responsible for the action of the Government of Greece. It is true that you criticized the People's Group's proposal to limit the questions to the President of the Union to three, but you also know that in this Committee of the Rules of Procedure, from which you have abstained and not taken part in the vote, there is another quite different agreement, which does not limit the questions to the President of the Council of Galicia to three. What we didn't want to accept, because we don't see how sensible it is, are proposals like those made by the Galician Nationalist Block Group, which wanted the questions, not only to the President of the Board but to the rest of the Government, if you could simply announce the intention to ask a question. Well, we don't think it's serious that a parliamentary group comes here and announces: I intend to ask the president of the board a question. The object of it? I'll make it during the plenary session. Of course, we think the Welsh House is something much more serious than that. And with regard to Members who are not members, there are differences of opinion. The Galego Nationalist Block agrees to include the figure of the non-attached Member, and the Socialists' Parliamentary Group is also in favour of including this figure. The AGE Parliamentary Group is not aware of this, because since it came as a spectator and observer... surely, Mrs Martínez, you can ask your former colleagues whether it is appropriate for you to be part of a parliamentary group or whether you would prefer to be only non-attached Members in this Parliament, with what this means. Yes, it turns out that everyone wants you to be non-attached Members, but then you sit with the rest of the parliamentary groups to denounce other issues relating to the reform of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, in the presentation and its amendments, you did not agree practically on anything, not even on the matter of the Government's appearances. Look, the PSOE wanted to include on the agenda of the plenary the appearances requested by the various parliamentary groups, the Joint Group wanted to include the appearances requested by all opposition groups and the Nationalist Block Galego wanted to include the appearances requested by a parliamentary group and supported by another parliamentary group. So you weren't able to agree on the government's proposal. That's right. All you agreed to was to jointly criticize a press conference on the deal. And I repeat again: it is no longer a democratic agreement between two majority groups of this House than an agreement between minority groups, tides and other group that also belongs to the caste in order to be able to govern in certain municipalities and certain deputies. And, of course, we did think that this reform was necessary. Apparently, for the Joint Group, no. But it turns out that this reform comes as a result of the incursion of a Joint Group into this Parliament which led to the adoption of an agreement reached at the beginning of the legislation, with three interpellations to the opposition, six non-legislative proposals, three questions to the president and six questions to the members of the Government. We try to balance the changes on every track with the Galego Nationalist Block, and Mr. Jorquera knows it, offering you to present questions to the President of the Board at every and every plenary session, offering to extend the sessions so that there would be a more ordinary plenary. But the Galician Nationalist Block did not accept any of the proposals that were made to it. Why? We don't know, you'll have to explain. Why? Because now they claim what you didn't accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u62	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is a reform that improves rights and extends the rights of Members and Members, and that, of course, it improves and facilitates the functioning of this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u63	Thank you very much. The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u64	Thank you, President. I'm afraid to hear that this reform is a consequence of the Joint Group, actually, it looks funny to me, when I don't say sad, because we're really going to have to change it back to the next legislation. Because I think the House will be much more plural. So if new groups appear, it's a problem for the majority groups, because we're going wrong. And it's really lost the opportunity to make this Parliament plural, to be participatory and to recognize minorities and their representation of citizenship, since they also have it. It proposes a change in the regulation which does not favour the participation of the citizen or democracy of the House, and converts the rights of parliamentary groups and Members to caste rights, limiting the rights of minority groups in both control and impulse initiatives. And of course, we have no problem at all in agreeing with the People's Party in not approving the figure of the non-attached. And we don't have any problems matching AGE and BNG in many other issues, though it doesn't match at that point. Because what if it cannot be, what the People's Party wants, is that by agreeing on a single point of the whole regulation, of the whole amendment, if you have to vote in favour of all the atrocities that try to bring this amendment to the regulation. But also, above all, the saddest thing is that even though things progress in some things, the truth is that rights are limited in many others, they go back to many others, and changes that are beneficial do not compensate for the losses of rights and democracy that bring about other changes. The President's figure is bound up, limiting questions to the full, that remain to the Bureau's discretion; that is, more insecurity, impossible. I suppose they want the Bureau to be formed again by the same two majority parties, and therefore the two majority parties themselves intend to continue to say how many rights and how and in what day they can be exercised by the rest of the groups and Members. It seems, therefore, that the People's Party and the Socialist Party consider them to be more representatives of citizenship than others. They must have a plus for some reason you don't know. The same as in the committees of inquiry if they continue to make it impossible to investigate what citizenship wants, not only the minority parliamentary groups, but also the citizenship itself, which has no form, it is not given any formula, so that it can somehow urge Parliament to open a commission of inquiry. And I think, for example, that in the case of Angrois in citizenship, there would be enough petitions to open up a parliamentary investigation which would be denied. Neither does it improve the functioning of the House, but what improves is the comfort essentially of the party that governs, in this case of the citizen party. The citizen participation is reduced to the rights you already have today, since today the parliamentary groups have taken those initiatives of citizenship and brought them to plenary. You just pick up what's already going on, putting more bureaucratic locks, signatures, registration steps... I suppose the citizenry will continue to work as it works today, because it's much easier for you to have to go through all the procedures that you intend to submit to. But we're also talking about transparency. If transparency is that data on payrolls, income statements, Members' real estate, be public, I've published my payroll for a while ago, I've already given it to the press and I have no problem. That's not transparency. People's "b" envelopes weren't in accounting, were they? Transparency is that there are no "b" envelopes. And so there's transparency about all there has to be is greater control over opposition and citizenship over the government group. That's real transparency, taking control. We will therefore, of course, vote against this amendment. We shall vote in favour of the amendments of the BNG, and we request the separate vote of Amendments 5, 19, 22 and 23 of the People's Party and Amendment 4 of the People's Party. We shall vote against the amendments of the Socialist Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that in my first intervention on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, I have tried to be quite polite with the parliamentary groups that we have agreed on this one that we have defined from my group as fraud to democracy. And I will try in this second intervention to maintain the same degree of parliamentary courtesy and good education, but yet I would like to tell Mrs Rodríguez Arias that, of course, fraud in democracy is not to compromise, fraud in democracy is the content and objectives of the things being dealt with. I'm sorry to tell you, but you always confuse your bacon with speed. And look, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, there is nothing aggressive about any transparency measures that you intend to implement in relation to either the property or the heritage or the declarations of its members, or the collectives of its political formation. I don't know if you can say the same thing. Because, as far as I know, this parliamentary group, without any agreement from the Bureau of Parliament, was the first in which all its members and all its members made public our declarations of goods. So, look, you're here to magnify agreements that didn't prevent us from making the regulation that we had an obligation to make that economic striptease, did you prevent us from doing it? You stop them, you stop anyone from saying what they earn, what they have, what they put in the income statement? No, right? Well, then, don't come here to magnify or sacralize issues that are, at the bottom, rather trivial. With regard to the Socialist Group, I have to regret, Mrs Gallego, having to tell you how easy it is to see the straw in the alien eye and difficult to see the beam itself. You have qualified as cosmetics and propaganda the law of citizen participation, which has been discussed earlier, while magnifying some progress that is still pure cosmetics and pure propaganda that are enshrined in this bill that we are debating. Because look, we're all going to have them all and all that we're here with some experience and some years to try to trick us like we're suckers and kids. See, with regard to Article 9, it is true that the Government's failure to comply with its obligations under Article 9 to date did not entail any kind of consequence. Doctrine of the Bureau: Since the law does not impose any sanctions, there is no consequence. Listen, but is it because with the change that is being made without any kind of consequence, because it was prohibited so far that at the same time as we were registering an article 9 we recorded a written question or for oral reply in committee on the same matter? No, right, ladies and gentlemen? So that mess they put in the regulation of being able to convert it at the cost of the group's coupon, by the way, in question for an oral answer, was not something we could not do until now. And if the Government doesn't answer in writing or hand over the documentation for most cases, it has something to hide and therefore we won't be told how much we will turn it into an oral question. We could say the same about the setting up of committees of inquiry. Look, ladies and gentlemen, very well, that, by the way, all the Rules of Procedure, all the cuts in the Rules of Procedure come into force on the day following the publication of this Regulation; that is to say, on 1 September all the cuts come into force; oh, but how curious!, it turns out that the committees of inquiry do not enter into force until the next legislation, right, gentlemen of the People's Party? It wasn't that the Socialist Party had regained some consciousness and if it had been promoted or voted in favour of the investigation commission of the incident in England, right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that wasn't the problem. And look, with regard to the questions to the president, to me that I'm trying to sell someone on a motorcycle that the final pastry they made in the Committee of the Rules of Procedure to change the top of the three questions for the full and that the amount, the number of questions and the proportionality of that question number to the president would be decided by the Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Board is a step forward, is that it really gives me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u67	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u68	Unqualified, but he laughs at me for not crying; he laughs for not crying. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and also of the Socialist Party, don't come here trying to confuse us, because you can use all the propaganda you want, but, as much as you want, the accident never turns into substance, and you want to make some changes here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u70	...just cosmetics and make us believe they're substantial changes and fundamental changes, and we're not so confused at the moment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galga de Left has the word Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u72	Good day again. The truth is that trying to justify the unjustifiable leads to the arguments that have been made here by the People's Party and the Socialist Party that are absolutely unacceptable. I, who am Marxist, apply the main contradiction and secondary contradiction. It cannot be seen as a major step forward which, in fact, in the main, means cutting down on fundamental and basic rights of Members and Members, but then has some side effect that, in makeup, can allow for a better layer of makeup. But to do that sometimes you have to read things. And when it comes to selling here that that final agreement on questions to the president is a step forward, you might want to read it so you know that it's not a step backwards, even worse than when you put a limit of three. At ordinary plenary meetings, the spokespersons of parliamentary groups may ask questions. "Maybe" means you can talk them or not, that I know, for now. The Chair of the Board, the Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Committee, will set the number and proportional distribution for each session; i.e. that the Bureau may set the number of 0 of none of the 1 of 2. The number of questions that can be asked not only to the President but to the Government as a whole is left to the discretion of the Bureau. And that means that a Bureau, which, as we all know, now represents the plurality of the House, is all the House groups represented in the Bureau, will ultimately decide not only how many questions the president has asked but the whole government. We're in a very obvious retreat. Sometimes you have to read the set of text to find out the reality. But do it further, I'll go even further. On the subject of committees of inquiry, as the new Article of the Rules of Procedure has been drafted, it means that there will be at most only that single commission of automatic investigation if requested by 25 or 30 Members, because the text literally says: "A single commission of investigation by legislation may be created automatically". It doesn't say anything more than it's not automatic, a single investigation commission can be created. So we're talking about that in this case you are going to avoid the fact that there is no further investigation commission in what remains of legislation, and possibly from that moment on only one, as long as you have the pleasure of the majority groups of the House. So you can't come forward with something that makes secondary data but that in fundamental matters such as research committees or the question of questions to the president is a very clear setback. And also, if you present to us as an advance the new regulation of Article 9 is a shame, because Article 9 only says that, from now on, if you don't get a documentation, you can go to an oral question. But now we have done it all, we have asked it; at the same time as we present article 9, we present the oral question, because unfortunately in this country the Government never answers, and less in writing. Yes, sometimes you ask in writing one thing and they answer you another thing that has nothing to do with, or like this spokesman, that takes time behind documentation about the ports of Galicia and the first documentation they delivered to you is the same one that was already on the website, that we knew and did not give answers to what we were asking. But, of course, what is more serious to us on the part of the People's Party is to say that those who say that this pact goes against democracy do not like pacts. We like pacts, some of us are used to dealing, dialogue. But one thing is to compromise and another is to compromise against the social majority; that is to say, to make agreements that mean going back into rights, to make agreements that mean that the citizenship out there is worse represented in this Parliament, because it has less ability to access information and has less control over the government. And when this Parliament loses control over the Government, it's losing its fundamental element, because unfortunately it's no longer a chamber of debate, it's no longer a legislative element, it merely legislates the Government, it doesn't even legislates the whole group. And what reality is it? That in this Parliament it is impossible to achieve the specific data that is needed at every moment to tell the Government that it is not doing well. It's impossible to access a particular bill, it's impossible to access specific documents from the boxes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u73	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u74	...and sometimes, when they do, they say they're secret and they can't move to citizenship. So there is a parapet between government and citizenship and there is more and more a parapet between government and Parliament itself. So we're going to support the amendments to the Nationalist Block and we're going to vote against the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u75	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. As for the amendments – which I forget about then – we are going to ask for a separate vote by some, because there are amendments that are contradictory to our text or our amendments. So you amend the Joint Group that we're going to ask for separately, because we're going to vote for 'no', others that we're going to vote for 'yes'. And with regard to BNG, there will also be amendments that we are going to call for a separate vote to vote on 'no' and others to vote on 'yes', 'I insist', to maintain consistency with the text that we present originally and also with the amendments that we tabled later. As for the rest of the issues that have been raised here in this second round, I am the one who cannot understand, nor in my group are we able to understand, it is as though we ourselves, from the Socialist Group, have reached agreements with BNG, with AGE, with the Joint Group or with the People's Group as a whole, that is a good agreement; however, when the Socialist Group and the People's Group come to an agreement, it is not a good agreement, it is an attack on democracy, and even though, for example, the Joint Group often supports the People's Group's initiatives and we vote against them, we do not tell them of the Group that they are making no cambalaches or any attack on democracy, and yet, when the Socialist Group is what brings up the agreement with the Group of the People's Party – because we must remember that this initiative has been presented by the Socialist Group – then this deals with democracy. It is really not credible that argument, isn't it? because, in addition, it is well known of all and everyone we are here, and of citizenship, which is the policy of important pacts that supports the action of the Socialist Group and the Socialist Party in Galicia, in the whole of the local entities, to which mayors did the Socialist Group on May 24, that governments favored and even that generosity contributed the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the other opposition groups in the constitution of this IX legislation, for example, at the committee tables, guaranteeing and facilitating the plurality and representation of all the groups at those tables when, by mistake, we did not correspond to it, but we were generous because we understood that democratic pluralism so demanded it; that is also how it pleases us. But look, I was saying at the end of my previous intervention that I was used to listening to lies when there were no arguments on the part of the Popular Group, and today I was surprised when I heard some opposition group arguing on the basis of lies. And, of course, Mr. Fajardo, I have to tell you, because I meant you, you know? Look, the investigation committees. No more committees of inquiry will be set up than the only one agreed by the Socialist Group and the People's Group. Look, false, because this article regulates automatic research committees, but there are other articles of the regulation that already regulate – and that have not been modified – the investigation committees. So if we're able to agree to create some other investigation commission, we can do it. That's right, you have to count on most of them. Because you talked a lot about social majority here, but look, most social votes are in the polls, and of course, today you have those who have it... I didn't want it to be that way, I didn't want it to be that way, you know? [[Applause]] I'd like to be the depositary of the majority social, my parliamentary group, but it's not. [[Murmurs.]] Can research committees be set up in the Galician Parliament without this reform of the Rules of Procedure? Yes, most votes have to be counted. From now on, what's new? What's new from now on? That can be auto-constituted even if most do not agree. And that's what we get with the negotiation. That we wanted it to be more than one in this legislation? Of course. We got one, okay, we'll keep trying for more. You ask the president, Mr. Fajardo. Look, in the current regulation the questions to the president are not included, nor the debate on the state of autonomy, and now they are included for the first time, okay? Should there be an agreement from the Spokesman's Board? [[Murmurs.]] Yes. Is it better to leave it closed in three, as the PP asked in the Rules of Procedure, to prevent there from being several groups in the opposition who can't ask the president questions? I think not, I think it's better to leave it open that we can reach agreements between all of us, so that there are as many questions as possible to the president. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Paz spoke of the fact that many of the things introduced in this regulation are purely cosmetic, because they could already be done because the regulation did not prevent them. Home! Did we prevent the regulation from hanging on Parliament's website what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u77	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u78	...do we win the Members and the Members? No, no, no, no. But would you guarantee the regulation that we all did? Not at all. With this reform, what we guarantee is that we can all do it. Look, as a summary: this reform of the regulation – let it be said to those who care about it – improves the House's regulation, guarantees greater control over government action, stimulates debates, exercises greater control over government and guarantees pluralism; there is not a single article in this reform of the regulation that says that opposition groups have less rights, on the contrary, they guarantee the opposition groups greater control over government action, whoever is in government; I hope that next we are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u79	Popular Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u80	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to make it clear to the Members of the Joint Group that, of course, for us to have a Joint Group in this Parliament it is not a problem, but they have to have a Joint Group in this Parliament, with Members of Parliament as you have just confirmed in your speech, if it is a problem for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and for the AGE Parliamentary Group. By the way, the amendments of the Popular Parliamentary Group are included in the dictatorship, so we thank you for your intention to accept them but that you know that they are incorporated into the dictatorship. [[Murmurs.]] But you also know that if you approve the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block, you are approving the incorporation of the figure of Members and Members who are not members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u82	And look, ladies and gentlemen, for us there is no possible reading of this reform that you believe in what you argue for voting against it. Now what you have to do now is to get out on the street, tell the people that you do not want to justify the expenses of your group, that you do not want to make public public your statements, that you do not want to make public public your own statements, that you do not want to publicize your heritage and your allocations, that you do not want to extend the parliamentary session parliamentary term – if you can end, Mrs Diaz... – that you do not want to justify the expenses of your group, that you do not want to make public public your declarations, that you do not want to make public public your own statements, that you do not want to make public your own heritage and your allocations, that you do not want to publicize your statements, that you do not want to make public public public your own heritage and your own resources, that you do not want to want to extend the parliamentary initiatives, that you do not want to make public the declarations of parliamentary initiatives, that you want to have more rights for Members to receive information from the Meeting, that you are seeking greater control of the Government of the Board Government of the Board Government, and vote and vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote and vote do not enlarge and vote do not enlarges do not enlarges do not enlarges do not broaden the periods, that you increase the sessions, that you will increase sessions, that vote sessions, that vote or vote increase the sessions, that vote will increase the election sessions, that vote election sessions, that vote election elections, that vote election election election election election election election election election election election election elections, that votes, that vote and that vote and that vote election election election elections, but the election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election, but the election, but the election, but the audiences, but the audiences are not appear appear appear appear appear, but the audiences, but the audiences, but the election election election election election election election election election election election election election election audiences, but the audiences, but the audiences are not the audiences appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear appear the audience audience audience audience audience audience audience audience audiences, but the election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election You want to open Parliament up to citizenship and vote not for the collectives to participate in the drafting of the different laws in this Parliament. That is the case, they denounce the defence of minority groups, but at the same time they support the creation of the figure of non-attached Members. Look, this reform creates new rights for Members and for parliamentary groups; this reform gives greater flexibility to the reduction of time to include initiatives on the various agendas; this reform has greater activity and creates more activity in this Parliament through enlargement of the session period; this reform guarantees more rights for Members and for groups and this reform, of course, applies more citizen participation, more transparency. You are left with no arguments to repeat again and again that this reform serves only to attack minority groups and to deprive Members and Members of their rights, because it has been perfectly proven that their arguments are not true and that what they are using here is a completely different matter from what they used in the presentation. You will know, of course, you will have to explain to the citizen your position in this direction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Debate and vote on the opinion drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u84	They are maintained for the full amendment of the Joint Group, the Galego Nationalist Block, the Left Galician Alternative and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The legislative text under discussion, in its derogatory provision and in the last provision, respectively, repeals Title VI and amends Article 1 of Law 8/85 of 13 August of elections to the Parliament of Galicia. Since this Act 8/85 is a basic development law of the Autonomy Statute, its approval requires an absolute majority in a final vote of all that will take place after the ordinary votes of the amendments and before the remaining articulated text of the dictatorship. The President of the Commission, Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the project in question has entered Parliament's register on February 25, 2015. The Bureau of Parliament has admitted this initiative, has published it in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and has agreed to open the deadline for amendments. Even so, listening to the panel spokespersons, he arranged for the First, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The amendments to the whole were qualified by the Bureau of the Commission 1 on 26 March 2015 and published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The Joint Parliamentary Groups, the Alternative Left Glaga and the Galego Nationalist Block presented each amendment to the whole, which were rejected at the plenary session of May 26, 2015. The amendments to the articulation, presented and qualified by the Bureau of the Commission 1st at the meeting of 22 May 2015 and published in the Official Bulletin of Parliament, were 139 amendments to the articulation: 21 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 24 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, 2 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 68 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 24 of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga of Left. Commission 1st appointed the following rapporteurs: from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr Pedro Puy Fraga as holder, Ms Paula Prado del Río as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Fr José Luís Méndez Romeu as holder, Ms Carmen Gallego Calvar as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galego of Left, Ms Yolanda Díaz Pérez as holder, Fr José Javier Ron Fernández as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Fr Francisco Xesú Jorquerra Caselas as holder, Ms María Tereza Paz Franco as alternate; from the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Carmen Igles Sueiro as holder, Ms María Consuelo Martínez García as alternate. The Constitutive Session of the Parliament took place on 4 June 2015, and, after successive meetings in which it considered the amendments and the text of the bill, the report was finalized, which was discussed and approved at the Committee meeting on 1 June 26. The articulated text of the dictame consists of three titles, two additional layouts, a derogation provision and three last layouts. So far, the summary of the legislative journey of this new legal text, which ends with today's submission to the plenary consideration of the Commission's ruling I chair. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u86	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. We therefore begin with the turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Carmen Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u87	Thank you, President. Political parties received in 2013 EUR 216.7 million of public funding, of which 42.8 are contributions from militancy and membership, and 5.9 from donations received. This data appears in the report of the Court of Auditors made public. This report also reveals that the debt of parties to credit institutions amounts to EUR 205.7 million, and likewise denounces, after they have monitored 32 political formations, the failure to comply with the prohibition of receiving anonymous donations. And it highlights, among other non-compliances, the absence of specific bank accounts to enter the quotas and contributions of affiliates and sympathizers, or donations income in accounts intended exclusively for this use. It also detects and denounces the Court of Auditors that some political formations continue to maintain participation in commercial companies, despite the prohibition of any commercial activity by these entities. It also monitors this forty-one report and a foundations linked to political parties, and detects that nine of them have negative net assets. Olayo González, Chief Prosecutor of the Court of Auditors, appreciates indications of crime in the financing of almost all parties – illegal debt forgiveness, accounts in which cats are not counted, real income, strange loans, unknown foundations and illegal prayers. And, as responsible for these infringements, Olayo González directs the left-wings and – allow me – Stalinists at the tops of the parties. This, I would say, is one of the causes of the disaffectation of citizenship to political parties. The latest scandals –Bárcenas, Mouse... – the looting of public funds in the Valencian country, the black cards and the crimes of the Royal House bubbles are cases of political corruption that sow class discredit and undermine the democratic system. Today, for debate and vote, the draft law on the financing of political formations and the foundations and related entities and dependent on them is presented. A bill that, again, is nothing more than a wet paper – as I shall explain below – and that citizenship, which you have so named lately, and the members of the Joint Group understand how a new grip of hair on the part of those with legislative power. The Joint Group introduced twenty-four amendments, five of which were accepted by the P.O. and one deal with AGE. If they talk so much about transparency it is not to be accepted that the first amendment to the title of the law is rejected, that it does not clearly collect its intended purpose; the law seeks to repeal Title VI of the Elections Act to the Parliament of Galicia, only affects the funding of the parties in the elections to Parliament, and does not have a general nature as the title suggests. The wording proposed by the Mixed Group better collects the content of this law without ambiguities, is clear and does not lead to interpretation errors. On the other hand, it is shameful and unjustifiable, with the current economic situation, to extend the limit of electoral spending – approved in the August 28, 2012 order – of 0.42 euros, and that this bill increases to 47.61 % by almost 50%, while citizenship suffers cuts in services and rights. Unjustifiable and shameful! I repeat, I don't know how they dare, really. The amendments tabled by this group to Article 19 also seek to correct this gap between the economic reality and the financing of the parties. The increase in the accounts referred to in the Order of 28 August 2012 was intended to set the updated amounts of electoral expenditure subsidies to the Galician Parliament in 2012, which established an amount of EUR 15,530.93 per seat obtained in Parliament and that this new law increased to 20,889.10, which means an increase of 34,50, a scandal and an insult to a citizenship that sees as their purchasing power and fundamental rights diminish. It also increases from EUR 0.58 to EUR 0.77 each of the votes won by each candidate if at least one member had obtained a seat as a Member. This increase is 32.76%, while the working class of the public function sees that their payrolls do not grow, they are cut off. Now it comes to what this honourable Member considers to be very serious: in the same article 19 the costs of direct and personal sending to electorate persons of electoral envelopes and ballots or of propaganda and electoral publicity, being the content of the subsidy of EUR 0.22 per electorate included in the constituency or constituency. Amount doesn't matter, it doesn't matter! What we ask for in Amendments 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, and 24 is not to subsidize, is to ban these shipments, which are the ones that increase the percentage by 37.5%. The expenditure for this concept is a large part of all allocations for the financing of electoral processes as reflected in the audit reports of the Board of Auditors. On the other hand, it's a concept of hard justification for the potential to cause a crack in the grant control system. This idea combined with the need to preserve the environment – Galicia burns, MPs – for the expense of resources and the superfluous nature of many of the shipments that are carried out, leads us to propose suppression as a concept to quantify independently other subsidized expenses. In 2012 the rate that was applied on the accounts set in 2009 experienced a decrease of -20% that corresponded to the change in the consolidated non-financial expenditure of the autonomous community's budgets and which at the time was justified because "extraordinary circumstances motivated by a situation of economic recession imply a significant decrease in the non-financial income of the autonomous community. That is why it is considered necessary to discard any incrementalist update criteria, consistent with the evolution of autonomous finance and austerity policies which have been applying to Galicia since 2009." We are of the opinion that this has not changed today at all. The crisis situation continues, so it scandalises us that not only is this -20% compensated but it is that it increases by 15%. It will count on our vote when wages, including the minimum inter-professional wage, increase the same. The new policy is proving that the retention of election expenses is not comparable with a reduction of votes but rather quite the opposite. I do not refuse to remind you that the Government party and the promoter of this law that we are debating, the People's Party, has justified the reduction of Members of the Galician Parliament alone and exclusively in economic savings. A reduction of almost 20%. With 75 seats, a parliamentary representative represents 37,000 Welsh, with 61 parliamentarians representing 54,000. It diminishes the right of representation of Greek citizenship to make this reality so well—to reduce rights—and, in addition, it translates into the difficulty of accessing minority parties. Please note that this proposal has already been published for almost a year. Now we're introduced and we're dealing with this which basically aims to raise the subsidy for political parties – for those who come to the stage, of course – with an average of more than 30%. There's money left to democracy to give it to partyocracy. What do you want, PP gentlemen? What do you want, PP ladies? To compensate for the increase in subsidies to political parties by reducing Parliament, which, with all its vigours, is – or should it – the sovereign democratic representation of citizenship? Keep reinforcing what is recognized as a state of parties? Is this how you react to the message they just sent to them, favoring once again the two great parties in this kind of imperfect marriage bipartisanism? His arguments are outspoken to perpetuate and not lose his privileged status, lords and lords. But not in our name and not with our vote. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u88	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the consideration of this bill we call this bill a chapter more than the elevator operation undertaken by Mr Feijóo. In that debate we also said that it was a lifting operation that remembered a famous Hitler joke, that in which a person wanted to do an aesthetic surgery to get out 20 years, but because the budget didn't have to settle for three days, so today he has the face of Saturday. Well, I start with this reminder because today we have even more reason to make this statement. Let me remember. First. The President of the Board proposed in his presence in this Parliament a covenant to prohibit company concessions, when it would be necessary to remind Mr Feijó that the B concessions were already prohibited, that the donations of companies engaged in administrations were also prohibited and that, therefore, there was no need for a pact or the reform of the law, the only necessary was to comply with the law. Second. After proposing this pact, the board of directors approved the so-called "Democratic Impulse Plan" which expressly collected in its 8th axis suppresses anonymous prayers or legal persons in the financing of parties. Third. After these commitments, the initial drafting of this bill did not prohibit donations, simply established the non-perception of prayers as a condition for parties to access grants, their ordinary functioning. Fourth – and last –. Finally, after the procedure for tabling and commissioning, the initial contents will be further reduced by using state law as reference. I refer to the recently approved Organic Law on the Control of Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties where limits for the perception of prayers are even more lax than those that had the original drafting of this bill. Therefore, it is clear that this lifting operation clearly recalls Hitler's alluded joke. However, the BNG Parliamentary Group recognises that the initial text has been improved in other respects, but we are very critical of the reductions introduced to accommodate this text to the state law, a submission to the state legislation that has motivated the whole article of this bill to fall into the text. We believe that Galicia, in the exercise of its legislative position, can and should legislate more ambitiously, particularly in all matters relating to limiting the private financing of political parties. As we have also said in that debate of consideration, BNG is in favour of the political party's funding sources being mainly public. The public funding of the parties is the model that ensures the transparency and independence of political formations. The dependence on private finance favors parties that end up acting as transmission belts of the large pressure groups and creates the growing broth so that the rotating doors will camp to their widths. In this sense, it seems positive to us that we see in chapter III of this project the creation of a specific grant to the operating expenses of the parties from the budgets of the Galician Union, in addition to modifying the initial text where this grant was simply contemplated as a possibility. However, strengthening the public funding of the parties requires, from our point of view, other complementary measures which are not envisaged in this project: first, saving measures so that in a crisis context and budgetary restrictions the strengthening of public funding will no longer involve expenditure; second, establishing stricter limits on private financing, strengthening transparency measures and strengthening punishment measures for non-compliance. This is precisely where the project continues to have important lakes and inadequacies that make the BNG Parliamentary Group maintain its initial position contrary to this bill. Lagoons and inadequacies that seek to correct the amendments that we are keeping alive for your debate and vote in this plenary meeting and that I will comment on. As far as saving measures are concerned, we advocate banning the distribution by the parties of ballots and electoral envelopes and sending them and electoral propaganda by mail. It is an important saving measure, the reports of the Board of Auditors themselves reveal that it is the main expenditure chapter of political training in electoral campaigns, but we also consider that it is also a measure of democratic hygiene: the ban on mailing, distribution of envelopes and paperwork and the obligation to use the electoral booth would ensure the secret of vote and prevent tactics of control and pressure from the voter who are still on the agenda in many of our country's councils. Apart from the ban on mailing, we also propose to introduce other measures to rationalise spending on electoral campaigns, which absorb a very important part of the expenditure on political training. Measures such as increasing the information coverage of electoral campaigns in the public media, establishing the obligation to hold debates, also requiring the public media to conduct interviews with candidates from different political formations on a maximum time of hearing. Measures, I insist, which have a double impact on reducing spending and improving the democratic quality of campaigns themselves. With regard to the first aspect, they would help to reduce spending by making it unnecessary for parties to have to overuse advertising and propaganda to spread their messages. In addition, the fact that the public media become the main broadcasters of debates and messages of all political formations would contribute to the greater contrast for voters, to a more direct understanding of the various proposals, and thus also to improve the quality of democracy. As I have already anticipated, other amendments propose to set much stricter limits on private funding. We propose, for example, that the prohibition of receiving grants be extended to natural persons who are directors, directors, executives or shareholders who hold a relevant position in the decision-making bodies of undertakings or entities which have, directly or indirectly, even as subcontractors, contracts with the public sector which are concessionaries of public services, who receive subsidies, assets or loans subsidized by the public sector or their activity, depending on regulatory rules or instructions issued by the public sector. Therefore, we also advocate that political formations which do not comply with this principle are taxfully excluded from access to subsidies to ordinary functioning and also from electoral grants. We also propose the adoption of exemplifying measures to punish defaulters, and in particular the suspension of payment of grants when sentences are given, even if they are not firm, where the criminal responsibility of political training or of persons with responsibilities in the management of their finances is declared, or where in the course of a judicial investigation precautionary measures are agreed against that political training or its officials. On the other hand, we also propose amendments to strengthen the supervisory powers of the Board of Auditors. As we have already said in the debate in the Proposal for a Law on Reform of the Law of the Council of Auditors, we consider a sense and a demonstration of the absurdities of those who lead centralism that the Court of Auditors is competent in all matters relating to the control of the financing of political parties, including the control of political parties exclusively in the area of Greek and including the control of subsidies granted by the Greek Public Administration, something which, in addition, clearly falls into collision with the powers of the Board of Auditors itself, but in addition, this competence remains effective in the work of monitoring the Court of Auditors itself. There's a saying that someone who's too narrowly covered. And in the face of this centralist scheme, the BNG believes that progress must be made in the opposite direction, as we have also stated in the debate of the Law on the Reform of the Law of the Board of Auditors. That is why we propose the addition of a new provision by urging the Government of Greece to seek the signing of instruments of cooperation or collaboration between the State Court of Auditors and the Galician Council of Auditors, in order to ensure that the control of the Greek political parties, as well as of the territorial organizations in Galicia political parties at the state level, is carried out entirely by the Galician Council of Auditors. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - we agree with the need for the financing of the parties to be especially public, but the establishment of a specific grant to the operating costs of the parties, which is the star measure of this bill, must be accompanied by savings measures and, above all, by the establishment of much stricter limits on private financing. Because, on the contrary, strengthening public funding for parties can simply result from the search for a solution to the economy of certain parties that have other main sources of income and that these sources are now limited by multiple scandals related to their financing. For these reasons we are calling for support for the amendments tabled by the BNG Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u90	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u91	Well, good morning to all and all. We have reached the end of a Party Financing Bill, a bill that, from the outset, represents an opportunistic text, an incomplete text, as we will try to reflect along this intervention, because for the financing of parties much more changes are needed, deep changes, structural changes, to ensure ethical funding, not to undermine the equal opportunities of all political organizations. And that, of course, is not what this bill is going to do, which is going to perpetuate itself in violating equal opportunities, because all you want to do is create a bill and leave the gaps that then, as they have done until now in these years of democracy, they will take advantage of to precisely violate – who? – the dominant parties of the system, as it has always been throughout this democracy: we make the laws and leave the slots to take advantage of them; and so it derives from that negative image that is in society today, an image, in addition, that you contribute to boosting and developing. In addition, a bill like this needs a radical change of electoral law, a radical change of electoral law, because electoral law is fundamentally unfair, it is not proportional and it is the one that establishes that subsidies have to be distributed according to the seats obtained; perpetuation of inequality and that nullifies the capacity of thousands of citizens when they put their vote in polls. The performance of a political organization goes far beyond parliamentaryism; or rather, parliamentary activity does not run out of political organization activity. And it seems to you that closed circle, that closed model where you want us to keep living, is all there is. I get representation, I have funding, and so it's impossible for small organizations that don't get representation, or organizations that want to get started, it's impossible to get into the circle that you with that closed model have very well tied up and want to keep tight with this bill. So this bill for us is negative, by placing that funding on the scene. That's why – we said – we need a new electoral law; open up, attack and do that, change, change the electoral law, unfair. In addition, it is necessary to collect an electoral campaign that defines ethical margins of the electoral market and universal and free equalization in access to public and private media, so that the real plurality in Galicia and those who decide to present themselves to elections can do so in a strict equality range. And then we said it in the debate. Title II, which speaks of the financing of foundations and entities linked to political organizations, is not restrictive and actually allows foundations and entities to become the tax haven of political organizations. And through that thread, that hole, the rotating interests of the private sector will continue to influence their money in political organizations. That's why the Alternative Glaga de Left wants a model of ethical financing, public, avoiding the private obedience and interests of certain companies and pressure groups. Ethics, which already means transparency, which means effectiveness, efficiency with the use of funds, advertising and accountability. We know it perfectly well. We presented 24 partial amendments. They were all rejected, except 2 that were accepted, and initially traded, but that we didn't like how it was transactioned, because it took part and left another, especially the part for us fundamental – that we're going to explain – left out. The presentation work, therefore, for us, in a certain way, has produced fruit, but it has been decaffeinated, with a political impediment, in addition, to transform the current situation of political parties and organizations. It is God to whom we call selective incapacity, to force us to be reassigned under the design of the majority group here, but above all in the state, in Madrid, by being forced under organic law 3/2015, of 30 March, to control the economic and financial activity of political parties. An imposition of that effusive recentralizing process that would force us to resign. And we say "no" to that resignation that loves us silent. A tax which is expressed, above all, in the monitoring work to be carried out by the Board of Auditors, which completely loses the necessary functionality, because it becomes a competition – said – of the Court of Auditors, a process of recentralisation, more functions, denying them to the Council, to the Greek organ. And for what purpose is it not to respond to the tasks of ensuring the ethics of political parties' financing? How? No resources, no means, no deficiencies and no evas, that year after year they become public. Moreover, this decision ignores the institutional and multinational reality in which we live, it ignores the national reality of Galicia. So we cannot accept that imposition and that the Board of Auditors loses its functionality. We therefore believe that the only people's party that did was to remain superficial in order to encourage a flat debate, a flat debate to camouflage all the shame that arouses and awakens political corruption in the matter of financing in the People's Party itself and in other parts of the system. The amendments presented by the Gaga Alternative of the Left basically rotated around several approaches. Firstly, eminently public funding to avoid turning doors. With Amendment No 2, to Article 4.2, we wanted to express more strongly the financial bans, especially anonymous donations. There can be no anonymous grant, because there – it has been said – the Court of Auditors' report shows that these practices continue to exist. We do not want anonymous prayers, nor do we want ethics to exist in this matter. Because you can put what you want to put down and lower the limits so that they aren't low enough as we ask, that we ask you to lower the limits, because you're logically trying to turn it around, apply the subterfuge and go through the back door. That's why we also introduced the impossibility of receiving donations from members of private-sector business boards, whatever, whether or not they have anything to do with public administration. Similarly, in other amendments, what we did, above all, was to appeal to an equal model, a model that respected the equality of all political organizations when they presented themselves to an electoral process, and so we have a variety of amendments, for example Amendment No. 7, to Article 17.1, where we are asked who can benefit from the grants; because for AGE they were all political formations that compete in an electoral process, resulting in proportional distribution depending on the number of votes received by each of them, and not those that received and did not receive prayers, and not only those who have representation, because if not, that circle closed. Regular funding and electoral funding go to the same circle, excluding all political organizations that did not get representation. In that sense, many are amended. So we also tabled an amendment, Amendment No. 10, to Article 24, where we asked that the limit should be reduced from which information on services or supplies provided by companies to political organizations in question of electoral expenditure should be transferred to the Board of Auditors. And we're asking for the lower limit, 1,000, 1,000 euros, from there we have to report, not the 10,000 that appear in the text. At all times our amendments called for the principle of equality to be applied, both in the granting of advances. For example, we call for the removal of the guarantee by 10% of the downturn, because they are limits that stop and prevent the exercise of political participation, from there our Amendment No 9 also to ensure equality. With regard to our proposal for equal access, which was linked not to representations, but to the electoral competition and the number of votes, we also presented Amendment No 31, of substitution, because so funding for ordinary operating expenses would actually have a redistributive character. As we said, that idea of redistribution, of equalizing, of having all the same letters, was the principle that guided AGE's work fundamentally in recording its amendments. The other, fundamental, in the amendment to Article 46, where we ask from the Alternative Galga de Left to equate the foundations and entities associated with political organizations in the field of public funding in all respects, because they are, in addition, those that we have been defining in the various amendments we have registered, from the matter of forecasting donations. The risk is obvious and you don't want to see it, or you see it, but you want to allow the foundations to be, as I said before, those tax havens where the rotation doors are activated. Also, there is an amendment that we tabled and which was rejected, because it was appealed that it was very difficult. We proposed the creation of a public register of grants to political formations, foundations and associated entities; a register that would depend on the Board of Auditors and which would be accessible for the knowledge of citizenship. It was said no, but, of course, all the articles that had to do with the Board of Auditors basically fell because of that fear of not wanting to go any further and of not wanting to settle from Galicia to Galicia. That, of course, contributes to this bill being a simple... a mask, another one we've been watching between yesterday and today. Because, of course, the project that governs the Greek Board of Auditors, when all the powers are taken away from this party financing project, of course, is quite sad. So, we reiterate the initial discourse, the initial ideas of Alternative Galga de Left. We cannot maintain a system, a closed model of funding, a closed model that only benefits those who are at the top of the system, the systemic parties, bipartisanism, because it is no longer a party-cracy, that is false, it is a bipartisanism, and they take advantage of their own laws to introduce themselves into the gaps and continue to damage democracy, to continue to prevent plurality from manifesting itself and to continue to benefit, precisely, from that market in which politics is being converted, to which you are converting democracy and institutions, like the Galician Parliament itself. Therefore, from Alternative Glaga de Left, unless a change is made to those amendments that promote equality, which promote equal and democratic access to grants, this bill will receive the refusal and the opposite vote of Alternative Glaga de Left. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last January 27th, the President of the Union appeared in this Parliament - on an unusual occasion - and defended a programme called "democratic impulse". It was the response proposed by the Government in the face of corruption. In this proposal he defended a law for the financing of political parties and gave him two objectives: first, the prohibition of donations to parties by legal entities – we understand basically companies – something that has resolved state law. The second objective was to establish additional transparency measures. There's practically no change about that. If these were the presidential targets, really what we're going to approve today is very far away. In addition, the president started this law, and others we've seen debating in this session, in a so-called "Democratic impulse plan." This of the democratic impulse plan is very interesting, it is displayed on the website of the Galician Union, but it has not been sent to Parliament. The Government had so little confidence in the consistency, effectiveness and importance of these measures, that it had decided that this plan should be withdrawn from Parliament's knowledge and kept only for general information on the website of the Galician Union. In fact, when you visit that website, there are some very surprising issues; for example, there is a tab, a paragraph, which refers to the initial commitment of the Chair of the Board to promote five laws that would be approved in 50 days and which would contain 50 measures. Of course, a phrase of publicity. Fortunately, that tab has already been removed; the title remains, but it is no longer the contents, because obviously there are not five laws nor have been in 50 days or 50 measurements. With that label it was, of course, abundant. We have a website that talks about the democratic impulse plan, it's published for a while, and the marketing operation is complete; real commitment to citizens, zero. It is true that these are operations that have already been done more often by this government and that should not surprise us. Now, speaking of democratic momentum in the House when most of us have blocked the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption and have then discarded the only framework of analysis that existed in Galician politics, it seems to us a little strong. If you think with some wrong title laws and child content you're going to change the perception of citizens, you're just not getting a good idea of what's going on in the street. That's why we think that the processing of these rules that are elaborated by a government that has a majority and which comfortably dominates the House is a missed opportunity to send a strong signal to the Greek society, a sign of effective commitment to achieve a virtuous policy, an ethical policy and a demanding policy. But, of course, it is enough to see, with listening to President Rajoy, to understand the exercise of continuous escapism on this subject. This problem is not solved by debates – which, unfortunately, are usual; I confess to the part of guilt that we may have – based on cross-accused accusations. The annual memory of the Prosecutor's Office is very illustrative because it informs us that irregularities are directly proportional to the quotas of institutional power; that is, they are unfortunately structural and not accidental. This is a lesson that the oldest democracies have known for a long time, and that's why they do not correct these conducts exclusively to the Criminal Code and administrative laws, and design other mechanisms for prevention and control. Citizens demand to move from words to facts and break with that spiral of political disaffectation not only with political parties – although valued, on the other hand, according to the CIS – but even with disaffectation with the institutions of the democratic state. I stress, disaffectation with institutions and not with values, as the surveys themselves tell us, but disaffectation with structures that articulate political cohabitation. And it is no less surprising that after polling, in Spain, the best rated institutions are – by this order – the Civil Guard, the Police and the Armed Forces, and the worst rated – by this order too – political parties and trade unions. We should do something, unless we're tacitly asserting that this situation is not worrying. That is why we believe that it is no time for cosmetic operations or for the courts to leave the investigation and sanction of systematic scandals exclusively while Parliament attends impatience to new cases which show both an extended level of corruption and a very lax system of controls. We believe that it is time to act politically, with inter-party dialogue, certainly, and also with society, but above all with the ambition of correcting these conducts and eradicating them from public life. Because even the country's image – we've had the foreign surveys – is being viewed internationally by a low assessment of Spanish institutions; it's enough to read the Latin American or European press to realize it. In addition, the last international perception index of the International Transparency organization gives us a very distant position from the major countries of the European Union or North America. So when we get to this final debate, we need to ask ourselves whether the laws we approve today will improve the effective legislation. Honestly, we think I'm an improvement, but I'm an insufficient improvement for the critical moment we've found ourselves. So if there are no nidio targets or a general framework or a global strategy, what are we going to vote for today? So we're going to vote something different; it's also important, but it's different. We are going to vote on the reform of the electoral expenditure subsidy procedure which compromises important public resources and where we must recognise and underline that there are no relevant problems in recent years, and there are the memories of the Board of Auditors that believe it. And we're also going to vote on the creation of an ex-new grant line for the financing of political parties' spending and financed by the Union. This is indeed an innovation of this government with few precedents in the state. No doubt, a legislative novelty that comes to respond to the consequences of the recent scandals of irregular funding which, according to the judicial summary, have been a constant in the history of the People's Party. Now closed or you make it difficult for traditional funding channels, first by media impact of legal processes and then by recent changes to state party financing regulations, you could only open new budget channels, which will undoubtedly be more transparent. Of course, aware of the difficulty of explaining these extremes, the president of the board resorted to a subordinate to involve these objectives in a very generic norm. And so, the president of the Advisory Council, behind the council itself that he presides, took on the development of the rule we are debating today. Bad premiere of the first management order that receives the consultation! The text was so disconnected from reality that it ignored the changes that were being introduced by the General Courts in the past spring and also included precepts that were clearly colliding with the Organic Law of general electoral regime. This was first warned in the Council itself by the particular vote of former President Touriño and then, later, the bodies of this group, by the Parliament's Juridical Services, who warned of that risk of collision with state legislation. They were consistent positions with which I exposed this group in the initial debate. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has submitted to this draft, to the text 68 partial amendments, of which 10 were accepted and 14 were negotiated. Our amendments were in line with two objectives: on one side, to respect the current provisions in the electoral law of Galicia on electoral expenses, which the new rule did not improve. As I have said, it was a text that facilitated all electoral processes for three decades in Galicia without complaints from political groups. All those amendments, logically, were rejected by the majority popular. The second objective of the socialist amendments was to improve the text by introducing legal certainty, hence the constant references to state legislation, the Loreg, the Court of Auditors and the Party Finance Act, in order to avoid discrepant interpretations that could have resulted in an undesirable level of conflict. In this group of amendments is where I must recognize that there has been more receptiveness on the part of most people. Thus, the text we are discussing today in the final process is quite different from the initial one, above all, offers greater legal certainty and avoids the risk of litigation, very present in the initial text. However, when the work is done, today this group keeps a reserve of opportunities alive; no doubt, improving the funding of political parties, introducing transparency and doing so in a way that clears the problems that have existed so far is an important task, but we believe that, being important, this task should not be considered at present, at least as long as economic restrictions that have caused the cutting of rights, the cutting of public services and the cutting of benefits continue. We believe that it would be appropriate to postpone the adoption of this rule at a time when the public accounts would indeed be recovered, and this would inevitably mean the restitution of the rights abolished, the recovery of the benefits withdrawn and the normalization of the welfare state, which was so seriously affected by the State's policy. Because almost on the contrary, it will be very difficult for you to explain that this matter is a matter of priority and that it precedes the process of dealing with matters that citizens are very directly concerned about, they worry about day by day and that, in addition, they directly affect their standard of living and their expectations for well-being. That is why this group maintains an abstention in this final vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u94	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. As we all know, political parties – according to article 6 of our Constitution – express political pluralism, compete in the formation and manifestation of popular will and are the fundamental instrument for political participation. It must be remembered precisely today. It is true that this article introduces the 1978 Constitution for the first time political parties in the basic norm, in the constitutional norm, and that this void of not mentioning political parties has much to do with revolutionary philosophy contrary to the intermediate bodies that accompanied the first democratic movements. We must remember Washington's farewell speech as President of the United States, in which he predicted, precisely, he anticipated and warned the population, kept watch over the Americans, for the risk of fragmentation of the population, of society, in the defence of general interest through the parties. However, the post-war constitutional movement introduces the recognition of parties in constitutional texts as being of special and singular constitutional relevance. The first constitution that does so is that of 1948 and, above all, the Basic Law of Bonn, the German law, of the constitution of Germany, of 1949, undoubtedly conditioned by Nazism, by the experience of the single party, because without political parties there is no democracy. And, precisely, that is the article that right after the Franco-French dictatorship in Spain we copied or adapted making democratic political parties of constitutional relevance. Because, in fact, the parties produce a public good: they translate the spheres of citizenship into public policies – hence they encourage participation –; they add the preferences of citizens who share an ideology; they contribute to governance and to the interaction between government and citizenship; and, of course, they maintain – although this was more peculiar to the parties of the first third century of the 20th century – their powers and powers of recruitment and political training. Today we are not with notable parties, elites that self-finance their political forces, or with the masses of the twentieth century's own parties, of the first third or mid-20th century, which are financed mainly by the quotas of their affiliates, or even by the unions themselves of the working class, and we are going towards the voters' parties, around great ideological options, which has its advantages, for example, the case of rationalizing parliamentary debate, or, for example, it has risks, such as the one of detachment and the professionalization of politics. The financing, of course, is essential for the functioning of these important entities in constitutional democracy as ours, and therefore for the whole democratic system. We are not at the time when the notable parties were self-financed, nor at the times when, like the union resistance funds were made, the parties were funded with militancy contributions, but we are in another situation, because throughout history there has always been a problem of catching the will of the parties, of the parties' opinion, by the income seekers. And from there comes the European trend towards public funding with the German Law of 59, the Swedish Act of 65, and from then on in all European parties. In this way, today the parties finance themselves with affiliate quotas, with other voluntary incomes, which are all kinds of donations – including crowdfunding – with public subsidies and, finally, with funds outside the system, which are those that kick corruption and have a lot to do with the interest of some economic agents to capture the will of the party representatives. The system is usually mixed. For example, in the last decade, in Spain, approximately 80% of the total funding of the parties was public funding; 36% came from the state grant for ordinary operation, 2% from the autonomous governments, 7% from the General Courts, 28% from the autonomous legislative assemblies and 25% from the local authorities. That's 100%. Logically, we had a mixed system, and it's true that none is ideal. The public – as I said – promotes a distance from citizenship, and the private facilitates possible capture by interest groups, as well as introduces the risk of corruption. That's why we understand that the president, when starting in 2013, begins to propose public funding and the abolition of private funding and donations in the autonomic field and also in the state, makes a brave bet; a brave bet that translates into a legislative proposal announced at the beginning of this period of sessions that was smoke, but this is the third law that we are debating in that debate of democratic impulse as a result of the political impulse of the President of the Union. Briefly, what was proposed was to close the bill of prayers, which was achieved at the state level by influence or at the request of Galicia, as seen in the amendments that were made in the parliamentary process and in the Senate, and also in the autonomic field, and at the same time to strengthen public funding to compensate for the loss of other income and allow the ordinary functioning of the parties. Because the fact is that neither the 1987 Law, the financing of the parties, nor the reform that was done in 2007 have eliminated or avoided the problem. Reference was made to the report of the Court of Auditors of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011 and indeed – as the spokesman of AGE said in this gallery – it is true that there are anonymous donations; in particular in those years two parties are received: IU Andalusia, amounting to EUR 337,000, and PAR, Regionalist Aragonese Party – you were right when he said that they were following anonymous donations, as demonstrated by the Court of Auditors – and no other. There are also donations made to foundations linked to political parties, for example, municipal and territorial studies, of UI, Marxist investigations, of the PC, and Sunday Malagón, of the PC, which also have, by about a million euros, problems with anonymous prayers, but, of course, that's all it does is to find that the law of 2007 has not corrected the eja of what we were talking about. Because you still think that what has a financing problem here is the People's Party, and they have all the political forces, as the State Court of Auditors has just said. We're trying to make no one have that problem, neither we nor you. But, well, you follow with your sectarianism of good and bad and with your sectarianism that translates into not letting anyone have the use of the word, but that's not our problem, because we're going to keep saying the same thing. [[Applause]] Moreover, the problems of irregular financing for all political parties have raised a warning from the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek of the Council of Europe, Spain. However, today there is a change, a change which the People's Party proposes and which is driving throughout Spain. There is great progress in state legislation concerning the prohibition of irregular financing of parties: the prohibition of donations of legal persons, the prohibition of public donations of anonymous persons – those of natural persons not exceeding EUR 50,000 per year –, the prohibition of total or partial concessions of bank loans, transparency on the Internet of outstanding claims for depreciation, regulation of the party's economic-financial manager, publicity of party statutes, allocation of criminal responsibility to parties and the creation of the criminal type of financing of the parties, complete regulation of the overdue foundations and direct sanction capacity by the Court of Auditors. These are so many changes that the Leader of the Socialist Party has not even noticed this issue, that the other day I proposed as a great measure to avoid corruption that people responsible for corruption crimes linked to party financing had to respond with their heritage of everything they stole, and it turns out that this is already in force because it was one of the 250 amendments to the Criminal Code, which introduced in the code the reform of the People's Party, and which, of course, the bloc opposition did not vote in favour. The change is taking place, as the member of the Joint Group said. The debt of the parties to the bank came down – I put the report of the Court of Auditors – from 270 million euros to 205; private donations, from 11.3 million to 5.9 million euros – from which only 400,000 euros to the People's Party – and there is a clear trend towards curbing the spending of political parties. That's the essence of the reform that we are going to vote today: less expenditure on the total functioning of the parties, therefore less social cost, because the bill is closed to the grants, and instead there is a possibility of public funding that is transparent and therefore, in addition to being transparent, is begged, and I mean that it is begged because the political forces want to cover operating costs with the grant, with the grant line that will be shared with objective criteria by the Board, will have to ask the Board itself for it. With this, what we do is – as I said yesterday – close slots so that there are fewer opportunities for corruption. We're and we're on it. In the amendments of the PP to the Law on State Contracts directly companies and firms that illegally finance parties cannot compete for public works, and that is what we complete with that autonomous law. It is the first autonomous community that adapts its own regime of party financing to the new demands of state law, and the first also that overcomes it, and knows it, among other things, because we are debating amendments to the opposition groups. I want to remember that we accepted 21 – 11 of the PSOE, 3 of the AGE, 2 of the BNG and 5 of the Mixto – and we traded 27 – 13 of the PSOE, 7 of the AGE, 6 of the BNG and 1 of the Mixto; a total of 48 amendments that were accepted or traded. If we discount what they were referring to – as Mr Méndez said – to which we did not want to touch the Electoral Financing Act, we are talking about about about about half of the amendments tabled, and again, as we said yesterday with the Council of Auditors Act, on significant issues, for example, the allocation of funds, discussed whether by votes or by seats, and we dealt with the Block and obviously not the two fully satisfied, but 60% were divided according to the votes reached and 40% according to representation. Because, Mr. Ron, you know that the distribution of funds can only be done among the parties that have representation and can only be done among the parties that have representation precisely because that's what makes the state law. On the other hand, in the first quarter of this year, 400 political parties have been registered in Spain, and there must be approximately more than four thousand political parties in the Interior register. If you want, we give all the same resources, which is most in accord with the popular will, which support the People's Party, even the United Left, as the other 4,400 political parties registered. [[Applause]] We also agreed – in this case not with the Block, but with the AGE – the prohibition of grants of immovable property, which was one of the requests made by the AGE Group, we increased control, sanctions are more automatic, we advance accountability deadlines before the Board of Auditors, the requirements for the perception of operating expenses are even more demanding than previously provided for in the law, the same requirement is established for foundations over which the parties are bound and, of course, there is no record, because you know that you can't also make a record, which is state competence, however, there is absolute transparency; transparency is guaranteed by the obligation to publish aid both by the Administration and by the aid perceptions. I believe, gentlemen, that we have done a job, a job that can still be completed more. You know – because this has been raised in the presentation, and it has been proposed again in the commission – that we have a regime – of an amendment that we have agreed, of a transaction that we have made with an amendment to the Nationalist Block Galego – and that the suspension of the payment of subsidies for ordinary functioning is conditional not only on the party being declared illegal, but on its being up-to-date at the payment of social security and having minimum transparency requirements. These requirements do not apply to subsidies received for election expenditure. You didn't accept the transaction, it's on the table. I believe that even by legal logic the two should be conditioned to the same requirements, and at this moment you can perceive the grant for election expenses, even if one is not up to date on the payment of social security quotas, but not the one of ordinary functioning. I think we could extend this requirement to electoral expenses grants. For that, right now, it's only possible to do so on one of the amendments to the PSOE, number 32, and the whole House contest. I propose a transaction that equates the requirements for receiving electoral grants and ordinary operating grants. Ladies and gentlemen, you've got everything full saying we're selling smoke. Let's see how smoke works, let's see when the Board of Auditors starts working, and let's see how the ban on receiving donations works, because – I insist – we're with these laws giving democracy a boost, and all you have to blame is that it's the People's Group that drives them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u96	Thank you very much. The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u97	Thank you, President. Two points, Mr. Puy. What you call union fund was in its origin the box of resistance, which has nothing to do with funding, because it was the solidarity contributions of the working class to resist strikes. It has nothing to do with financing. On the other hand, I don't think the PP has funding problems, what the PP has is illegal funding problems. The best minister of the economy of democracy is accused of very serious corruption crimes; he was also president of the International Monetary Fund, which is the one ruling us all. You can't use bad words, you have to speak clearly, Mr. Puy, because the law language confuses citizens. Well, and now I'm going to stand up for the amendments of the opposition groups; I don't know whether to include the PSOE, because it has such an idyllic relationship with the government party that, well, at last. With regard to the amendments to this parliamentary group, the Members of the Joint Group are going to abstain because we believe that they do not have any substance, and I believe that it would be better for them to make a whole amendment to their own text of the bill. They will not be rejected by these Members, but we will not vote in favour of them. As for those presented by the BNG and AGE, they will count on our vote, because they all coincide with many of those presented by the Joint Group and, in many cases, improve and complement them. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u98	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Puy, since you have used in part your intervention to collect reports from the Court of Auditors, you will know that the Court of Auditors reports say that the Nationalist Block of Wales is the political force in the whole state where they have the most weight in their funding, the contributions of militants and their public office, and I am proud of that. I am very glad that the People's Group now recognises that public funding is the most important thing in ensuring the transparency and independence of political formations – that was not the traditional right-wing approach – and that it provides a large, often ignored perspective in this debate. And the appeal to be financed outside the system is due to the interest of certain lobbies to capture the will of certain political parties. He's providing a vision that seems interesting to me, that the BNG subscribes, but allow me to complement it. He will agree that this also contributes to the predisposition of certain parties to be captured by these lobbies to act as a transmission belt of their interests. And in that sense, I make an appeal: you review the payroll of members of the board of directors, for example, of the big electricians, or of the big advisors that these big electricians set up, and you will see how many people who have executive responsibilities are now feeding on these administrative councils. But by focusing on the position on the amendments, we are not going to vote in favour of the amendments of the Socialist Group. There are some who seem reasonable to us, but I would have to make a practically individualised vote on each of them. Most of them have a purpose, which is to force the object of the law to grant grants, to the ordinary functioning of the parties, suppressing the rest of the issues by understanding that all these issues must be referred to state law, and the Nationalist Block of Wales is totally and absolutely against that proposal. We believe that Galicia, in exercising its powers, can legislate and can do so in a much more ambitious way than it has done in the State with regard to the financing of parties, and that, in addition, the Board of Auditors must assume the powers in the field of control. The amendments of the Socialist Group are oriented in a diametrically contrary to them; therefore, the BNG will not support the amendments of the Socialist Group. We are going to support the amendments of the Joint Group and the amendments of the AGE Parliamentary Group, although some of us deserve nuances. We believe that the philosophy of the background is coincidentally, although in some cases they have different formulations. And here's an example: Mailing. The Joint Group proposes abolition, as proposed by the BNG Parliamentary Group. The AGE Parliamentary Group proposes that these expenses be borne by the budgets of the Galician Union, and we believe that this is also a reasonable matter. I understand that there are bets on the French model, where the electoral administration assumes the dispatch of the ballots and envelopes of all political formations without exception, which introduces greater equality of opportunity and also savings in spending, as much as the BNG continues to support the removal of the mailing. But anyway, what is the philosophy that inspires these amendments? Strengthening public funding, far more stringent limits on grants, preventing the foundations of the parties from acting as co-workers and under which companies continue to be financed, establishing more equitable criteria in the distribution of grants, strengthening control and transparency measures and accompanying the strengthening of public financing of savings measures. And in that sense, I would like to express a deep discrepancy with a statement made by Mr. Puy saying that there were already savings measures as they were established in this bill limits to prayers. Look, limiting donations is not introducing public savings measures, which is what we're talking about. We are in favour of strengthening public funding, but at the same time reducing spending by deleting items such as mailing; it would mean saving for certain lobbies that financed certain parties. But, I insist, many of those prayers were already illegal, and what happens is that the law was systematically violated by certain parties. As we believe that all these aspects, which guide the amendments of both the BNG and the Joint Group and the AGE, are not sufficiently reflected in the final text, we also announce that we will vote against the dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u100	Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u101	Good day again. Despite all the intentions that he said he had the People's Party through Mr. Puy, the fact is that, precisely because of that submission that emanates from the center of the state, that emanates from Madrid, we understand that what we have before is a text that renounces, precisely, to regulate more strictly fundamental aspects and that it is those that appear, in a certain way, in the amendments that he presented to the AGE, and, as the spokesman for the BNG now said, that he defends the Galego Nationalist Block, even though we have the tone – which he has already expressed very well – on the basis of the mailing, in which we defend an equal model because part of the Public Administration, equally for all the political organizations that decide to compete for an electoral process. They speak, above all, of five fundamental aspects – and also of the Joint Group – which are: stricter limits on private financing; anonymous donations not; equality in distribution, not by scandal, but by votes – why?, because we have an unfair electoral law that supports precisely that closed financing system, especially the public; and, of course, the refusal that foundations be the queue, the back door, of interests, of donations, of pressures, etc., to be the tax havens of political organizations. Like this, we did a certain number of opposition groups through the BNG, the Joint Group and the AGE, but not so the PSdEG, which explicitly renounced, especially because they wanted to suppress, suppress and suppress, because they understood that this law should not be introduced, because of course we do not share that in these deletions the Galician Council of Accounts disappears precisely from the articulate, as it was. And, therefore, we cannot support the amendments; some do, but not the bulk. Of those 64 who said that I had presented many of them were automatic suppression of everything that regulated the reality of our own Galician reality. We understand that Galicia has to regulate its own financial reality, it has to regulate its own system of political parties and, of course, not delegate that jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors, only and exclusively as this bill does, because the only thing it does, logically, is to refer itself to what Madrid says. We therefore support – as we have said – the amendments of the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales, we do not vote against those of the Socialist Party, and, as our amendments, in its vast majority, especially in these key aspects, have not been accepted in the final report, in the final project, because we will vote against the articulated text. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this group will vote in favour of amendments from the other groups, and will vote in favour of them for the same thing we have already said; without getting into nuances they pursue a goal of improvement in the text. Now, I just heard two speakers explain that the amendments of the Socialist Group tend to replace the Greek legislation with the state legislation. I'm sorry to tell you they didn't read them well. The law we are debating has two parts: a first, which amends Galician electoral law, Law 8/85, elections to the Galician Parliament, and a second, which creates a new line of funding for the operation of political parties. In the first part, we censor the drafting proposed by the majority group and we defend regulation as it is in the present election law to the Galician Parliament, an argument which, in addition, seems to us to be subligible and that for thirty years has worked the full satisfaction of all the groups that have competed for the elections, and we have not found sufficient levels of improvement in the text as to justify the amendment of the electoral Welsh Law. Mr. Puy, you said at the end of your speech that this was a democratic impulse and that we would see the results in the future. Of course we will, of course, see the results in the future, and I will ask you again the question I asked you yesterday: do you really believe that with this rule approved, with this rule in force and with the rest of the package that we are going to vote on today will prevent the new cases, the new scandals, the ones that have already occurred, and that will be discovered? Do you really believe that these rules exhaust the ability to fight and prevent corruption? I believe that, Mr Puy, you will be aware as I am that unfortunately the phenomenon is more complex and that what we are doing with these laws today is a mere approximation to some aspects of the problem. I remind you again of President Feijóo's commitment to the start of this group of laws, that commitment of 5 laws, 50 days, 50 measures. Days are irrelevant, but measures are not. I read in detail the 50 measures that you proposed in that propaganda plan, in that plan that did not come to Parliament's debate. It has not come to debate and it is a lost occasion again to at least try to approach positions, so that at least there is a progressively more consensual definition between the dimensions of the problem and the strategies to deal with it, even if the consensus in the voting is logically more difficult. But you run away from that level as you have fled – and we will never tire of repeating it – from the commission created on your day, where they prevented there from being any conclusions or that there could be at least a dictation, a draft of conclusions, which was a sign, that was a message to society. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that, in understanding the improvements introduced in the texts, in this case we believe that there is, in addition, a question of particularly remarkable opportunity, especially important to citizens, and therefore I reiterate that we will maintain our position of abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u105	Deduction of the interventions of previous spokespersons that refuse the transaction that I offered for the purposes of hardening, comparing the subsidies, the perception of election subsidies, with those related to ordinary functioning; in any case, if not, I am willing to see the text at the end of my intervention. It seems, curiously... These are the issues that have to do with... I think that yes, the political class is under-view, among other things, because we all agree to make public funding, but here at the end all are against the law with greater or lesser intensity. It's funny to me about "right and left," Mr. Jorquera. Probably Mr. Beiras, if you read something I've given you years ago, you can inform him that I'm about the search for income and the capture of the will of legislators I've written since the '90s, as part of my university work. I'm what you'd call "right," with admiration, the same way I recognize that you're a left-wing nationalist. Therefore, I believe that in the functioning of pressure groups and in the functioning of the grant to political groups – that if they are not, they may seem or may turn out they are not, but then they want to look like it – because we fully agree. It is true that there is a right that advocates the American model, but the right that you have here, the People's Party of Galicia - which is not strictly right-wing - is committed to public funding, and in that it seems that you would be more comfortable to oppose Aguirre Hope than to us, but that's your problem, not mine. [[Murmurs.]] What we agree with public funding is to respect the basic state laws, and this was praised by the Socialist Group. I share with the Socialist Group that we must respect the basic state law and that control must be unique to the Court of Auditors. By the way, the law we approved yesterday introduces a new article that allows us to sign agreements with the Court of Auditors, which you did not appreciate enough to abstain or vote in favour of the law. I also want to say that it goes against basic legislation to suppress the expenses of electoral shipments, the famous mailings. There is also a myth about this, because Mr. Jorquera – said everything with the greatest affection – said that this is a field for coercion. Mr. Jorquera understands that he is more reluctant to vote for a voter who in his house receives three, four, five or six ballots, chooses the one he wants and introduces it into the ballot box, that the gentleman who is going to vote and is observed by all the interveners of all political forces to see whether his hand rises up, down, or to take it from either side of the table or the other. Mr. Jorquera knows a lot about coercion, because he denounced coercion in the Plane Town Hall. He said there was a coercion that made the Block not be able to run candidates. Her candidate said she didn't show up because she didn't want it, without any coercion. Mr. Jorquera introduced himself, under Mr. Vance's leadership, and of the 890 votes recorded on the plane the Block had 31 votes, which I'm sure they were without compulsion and at best with the paperwork from the house by the mailing that the Block made. [[Applause]] With regard to AGE, we do not share that electoral law is unfair, we do not share that political forces should be entitled to free access to private media, as AGE defends. And speaking of opportunism – which he said was this law, also said in his total amendment –, Mr. Beiras – that he does not stop talking... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u106	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u107	...representing, again, its Democratic tatant – recently introduced in this House, in February 2015, a proposal for democratic regeneration which stated in its point 9: reform of the Law on the Financing of Political Parties in Galicia which includes, inter alia, the total prohibition of grants to parties – amendment we accept –, foundations and partnerships – which is in the law – by companies hired by the Administration – we also add: "of individual persons working in the councils of these companies" – the public free access character of all economic contributions received, which can only proceed from natural persons – this law goes the transparency of all perceptions – or the creation of a single public register of easy access that allows you to know the revenues and expenses of the public parties – which we will also make public with the law, because it is already in the law that all prayers are made public. So you are opportunistic because, wanting to do so, you ask the House, when the House does so, as is the People's Party, because they decide not to vote. Their problem is their inconsistencies, their contradictions. With regard to the Socialist Party, we do not dismiss the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption, you know that. I appreciate that, after the prejudice that we wanted to reform the law in order to have more money than it was for Parliament, you admit that there is one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u108	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u109	...a new line of funding that is shared fairly. Obviously – allow me, president, a minute – because the situation... you don't know if all the corporate social responsibility reforms that come from American law have their origin in the problem, in case Watergate. It's true that, when there's a big scandal, there's a moment of corruption, like what we're living in Spain, and there's reform going on. But they come from there, they come from it. That's what we're doing in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u111	We're taking advantage of the situation to make the reforms. Far from being inappropriate, this reform is extremely timely, as is the President's impulse, the democratic impulse, which leaves less opportunities for corruption, imposes more controls, gives more capacity for participation in Galician citizenship and will soon also improve legislation on transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u113	Unfortunately, it seems that some are not in a position to recognize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u114	Thank you very much. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u115	We shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. We begin with the vote on the Ditam and the amendments to the Ditam drawn up by the 3rd Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the Reform of the Law of the Board of Auditors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u116	Vote for amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, document No. 38908. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint (Document No. 38908) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u117	We voted for amendments by Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, document No. 38909. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Document No. 38909) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u118	We voted for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Galga de Left, document No. 38913. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left (document number 38913) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u119	We voted for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document No 38917. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia (document number 38917) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3a, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u120	Finally, we shall vote on the committee's statement. We vote. Voting of the Ditam of the 3rd Commission, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 15; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Law on Reform of Law 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption, is passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u121	We voted on the dictatorship and amendments to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending the Galician Road Law. We begin with the vote on amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has asked us for two voting groups. The first group would be with Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 11. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 11 G.P. Joint Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on roads in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u122	Vote for Amendments Nos 3, 7 and 8 of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 3, 7 and 8 of the G.P. Joint Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on roads in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 41; abstentions,17. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u123	Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 5 of the Galego Nationalist Block, document No 38292. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 5 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (document 38292) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013, of 28 June, of Galician Roads. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u124	We voted for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative in two blocks. It called on the Socialist Group to vote, first, on amendments 7, 8 and 13. Vote for Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 13 of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left au Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013, of 28 June, of roads of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u125	We then vote on the rest of the amendments to the Alternative Glaga de Left. Vote for the rest of the G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on Galician roads. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u126	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. The Joint Group calls for a separate vote on Amendments 3, 7, 8 and 21. And the AGE Group calls for 19, 23 and 24. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia Nos 3, 7, 8 and 21 presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2a, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on the roads of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia numbers 19, 23 and 24 presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2a, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013, of 28 June, of roads of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 41; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u127	Finally, we voted for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Group. Vote for the rest of the G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013, of 28 June, of roads of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u128	Finally, we voted on the Commission's statement. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on the roads of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved by the Law amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on Galician roads.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u129	We voted on the ruling and amendments to the opinion drawn up by the Commission 1st on the proposal for a bill of popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. We begin with the vote on amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. We voted on the amendments contained in document number 38330. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint (document 38330) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u130	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, document number 38336. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block (document 38336) submitted to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u131	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative from 1 to 19, document 38344. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left (document 38344), paragraphs 1 to 19, submitted to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u132	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. The Joint Group calls for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia numbers 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14 presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the proposal for a law of popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u133	The vote on Amendment No 4 is also requested. Vote for the G.P. amendment. of the Socialists of Galicia number 4 presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 42; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u134	The Left Galician Alternative Group and the Galician Nationalist Block call for the vote on Amendment No 7. Vote for the G.P. amendment. of the Socialists of Galicia number 7 presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 41; abstentions, 2. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u135	We voted for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Group. Vote for the rest of the G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia presented to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u136	As I announced, we then voted on Titles I and II, Articles 1 to 13 inclusive, and a derogatory provision derogating from Act 1/88 of 19 January, of a popular legislative initiative before the Galician Parliament, which requires an absolute majority for its approval. Voting of Titles I and II, Articles 1 to 13 inclusive, and derogating from Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These titles and the derogatory provision are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u137	And we voted for the Commission's ruling, except for the articles voted earlier. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Proposal for a Law of Popular Legislative Initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament, except for the articles previously voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The Act of popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u138	We then vote on the dictamen and amendments to the Ditame drawn up by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Regulation of the Galician Parliament. We voted for the amendments of the Joint Group. The Socialist Group calls for a separate vote on amendments to the Joint Group Nos 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 26, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 35, 36 and 37. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Nos 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 26, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 35, 36 and 37, submitted to the Ditame Committee for a Regulation on the Proposal for a Law on the Reform of the Regulation of the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 2; votes against, 58; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u139	We then vote on the remaining amendments to the Joint Group. Vote for the rest of the G.P. amendments. Joint motion for a resolution by the Commission on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Regulation of the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 41; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u140	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. The Socialist Group called for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 8, 10, 11 and 12. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block Nos 8, 10, 11 and 12 presented to the Ditame by the Commission of the Regulation on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Parliament of Galicia Regulation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u141	We voted for the rest of the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block. Vote for the rest of the G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block submitted to the Ditame drawn up by the Commission of the Regulation on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Regulation of the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u142	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia 1-6, document 38971. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia Nos 1 to 6 (document 38971), submitted to the Ditame drawn up by the Commission of the Regulation on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Parliament of Galicia Regulation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 43; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u143	As has been reported, we have voted on Article 2 and the last second provision, which amends Article 48 of Law 1/83, of January 19th, which regulates the Council of Galicia and its Presidency, which requires an absolute majority for its approval. Voting of Article 2 and the last provision amending Article 48 of Law 1/83 of 19 January, regulation of the Council of Galicia and its Presidency, of the Ditome drawn up by the Commission of the Regulation on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Regulation of the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 15. The result of the vote is negative. This Article and this last provision are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u144	We voted for the Commission's ruling, except for the articles which were voted on earlier. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by the Commission of the Regulation on the Proposal for a Law for the Reform of the Regulation of the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 15. The result of the vote is negative. The ruling is therefore adopted and is therefore approved by the Law for the reform of the Parliament of Galicia Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u145	Finally, we are voting on the dictates and amendments to the dictates drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations. We begin with the vote on amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, document No. 38331. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint (document 38331) maintained by the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 38335) to Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left (Doc. # 38343) to Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u146	We voted for the G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists. I don't know if there's going to be any transactions in relation to what you've raised. [[Refusal.]] Well, then we voted for the amendments of the Socialist Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia (Doc. # 38329) to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 53; abstentions, 2. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u147	I ask for a little silence. There are only two votes left, please. We then voted, as was also noted, the derogation provision and the last first provision, which repeals Title VI and amends Article 1 of Law 8/1985 of 13 August, of elections to the Parliament of Galicia, which require an absolute majority. Voting of the derogatory provision and the last provision, which repeals Title VI and amends Article 1 of Law 8/1985 of 13 August of elections to the Parliament of Galicia, the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 1; abstentions, 30. The voting is positive. These provisions are therefore adopted. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs on the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations, except for the provisions already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 15; abstentions, 17. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG118.u148	The dictatorship is approved and therefore the Law on the financing of political formations and related foundations and associations is approved. [[Applause]] The agenda is run out, the session is up. Thank you very much and good day.
