ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please go and take your seats. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. There was no justification for inattentiveness and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are now on the agenda. Report of the People's Value for 2014
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u2	In application of the rules governing the relations between Parliament and the People's Valedor, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991, the Valador shall present a summary of the report before the Committee on Petitions on 29 May 2015. At the end of this session, the sitting room will be abandoned, and Members and Members will begin their deliberations. As a result of this debate, no motions for resolutions can be tabled, given their information, without prejudice to subsequent regulatory initiatives. I therefore ask the Second Vice President to accompany the People's Valedor to the rostrum of speakers so he can make his speech before the House plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u3	President, President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going as Parliamentary Commissioner to this Hall of Horreo, and I am honoured to be able to present briefly to the House the report of the Valador for 2014. I will do so briefly, for it has already taken place in committee a few days ago, in the Committee on Petitions, where, of course, there has been a rich exchange of ideas. And besides, the report has hung on Valador's website for almost three months. Therefore, I will be – I insist – brief. The participatory democracy that the present reality requires, needs, is necessary, control bodies to exercise a permanent function of oversight of the public authorities. In this sense, an adequate institutional structure is needed in these control bodies, based on balance, transparency, qualification and responsibility. This will strengthen the commitment to citizenship and will provide greater legitimacy to public entities. The figure of the ombudsman – from the valets, in the modern sense – responds to the similar situation, and reveals himself as an organ that improves democratic quality in our societies, deepening equality, reinforcing solidarity, or allowing for increased citizen participation. This is the idea that we try to respond to in the People's Valedor, bringing our efforts closer to the public services of Galicia and good administration to progress more and more in our autonomous community. 2014 was again an intense year in the Valedor, in which this institution carried out a very demanding task, both in the aspect of pedagogy and dissemination of rights and in the resolution of consultations and complaints that came to us. There is no doubt that this body is already a very consolidated institution in our autonomous community, with great visibility and permanent reference to public opinion. That, no doubt, congratulates us. The general competence of the Ombudsman, that is, the guarantee of human rights, is enshrined – as is known – in the control of the principle of good administration. In practice, this usually means that disadvantaged or vulnerable people are the priority object of attention by the Valador. Last year before this House, he was talking about the existence of a series of challenges pending for fundamental rights. I'm not going to repeat those ideas now, but I underline their vigilance. He talked about the interaction between fundamental rights and the digital world, social rights in an environment of crisis, the consequences of multiculturalism, the new environmental demands, the right subject to good administration, etc. With Georg Jellinek, Leipzig's jurist, fundamental rights theory received an admirable systematic, distinguishing between different states of the person. Now, in the 21st century, we must continue to advance this theory of fundamental rights to adapt it to new needs and thus overcome those challenges pending for rights. In this qualified mission it must be emphasized that social rights have to evolve in the phenomenological aspect; that is, in the application dimension, in the dimension of their effectiveness, which necessarily requires progress also in their coerciveness, and collecting the position of Jürgen Habermas, who said that democracy revolves around its transformation and not around the mere accumulation of ideas. The new deliberative frameworks for decision-making show the need to encourage these changes. With regard to the question of figures for 2014 it is necessary to make an initial reference which I have already expressed on other occasions. Rights problems are not quantitative but qualitative; that is, numbers have relative importance. Do this precision, I say something of these numbers, these numbers. The figures for 2014 – I insist – show this intense work of Valador that I had commented on earlier. The people attended by us were more than thirty thousand –30,722 – divided into four groups: people who attend us at present, telephone attention, complaints files and other files – usually consultations –. To these numbers we should add all the rights pedagogy acts we do in the institution. I have to thank publicly for the enormous effort my staff make in this intense work, with a commitment to the Valedor as an institution and a passion for defending people's rights. Also, on this line, I have to recognize the continuing help provided by NGOs and third sector entities, always very sensitive to our requests. On the subject of complaints, summarizing the comparison with other years, it can be said that more people have arrived than in previous years – more than 24,000 claimants – but fewer issues – 2,310 in particular –. This difference in complaints between claimants and matters is explained by the existence of collective complaints. This phenomenon – that of collective complaints, in groups – is persistent in recent times. It's clearly seen that people come to us in a more organized way, using digital technology intensely, which makes that organization easier. This is an example of the new forms of public management, of the public, of a more participatory type. The new society is more demanding and deliberative, and it employs the control organs, like the ombudsman, continuously. I think this is good for democracy. I also want to comment on this issue of the figures that four extraordinary reports were launched in the Valedor in 2014, two that have already been completed today: one of all Spanish defenders on the situation of hospital emergencies in the State, and another, specific to Valador, on transparency and access to information. At the final stage of preparation we have two other reports started last year, one about the accessibility of people with disabilities and one about socio-health care to people with mental illness. In that year 2014 we started a new extraordinary report on the rights of LGBTI people, which we are about to end in a few days. Another issue I would like to mention at the moment is the high collaboration that the public authorities have had with Valador, both in the provision of information and in the fulfilment of the resolutions issued by this Ombudsman. The pitfalls in this cooperation are exceptional, I have criticized them at the moment. The common agenda, on the other hand, is agile and loyal collaboration, which allows a high number of problems for citizenship, and which shows a network and synergistic work among the various institutions that improves the public system. Thank you, therefore, for the collaboration of all these public powers; of all the political signs, really. Our institutional activity focused on the dissemination and pedagogy of rights, which makes it possible to grow a better standard in the culture of human rights in Galicia. In this sense, in 2014 we organized for this purpose day-to-days and training seminars, and developed several campaigns. That is, alongside the processing of complaints, an ombudsman has a qualitatively different role, based on the aforementioned culture of human rights dissemination. For example, a relevant Valador line of work is the one that studies the interaction between teenagers and the Internet in Galicia. A line of work, by the way, which is already known internationally. In this way, we are trying to ensure that young people and young women in Greece make responsible use of technology, other than technology, an instrument of harassment or gender-based violence and that there are no cyberdependence situations. Even so, we act for women's rights. We'll only be an evolved society if we can forever banish discrimination on the basis of gender. This activity is also carried out at international level with the gallo to deal with trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation, a problem that persists, unfortunately, in Galicia. Another advocacy activity focuses on defending the rights of the LGBTI collective. This is a new function entrusted to the Valedor by this Parliament, which is aimed at eliminating any kind of discrimination on the grounds of sexuality or how to feel that sexuality. In the same way, we act to promote the principle of transparency. This principle has now become an essential element of current democracy, both in its objective aspect – i.e. the active publicity that the public authorities have to do – and in its subjective aspect – that is, the right of people to access information. Our commitment to transparency is highlighted in our new institutional website, open to citizenship, dynamic, accessible and usable, which is serving as an example both in the Ibero-American Federation of the Ombudsman and in the International Ombudsman Institute. Connected with these issues is the bet on digital technology, which has a strategic dimension in the Valedor that allows us to be more efficient. Finally, we also strongly push for the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira to the Heritage of Humanity, a distinction that gives UNESCO, as it is known. A group of experts has drawn up, with our coordination, the basic technical report which will be used to submit the nomination, if the competent bodies so consider appropriate, of course. In fact, next week we organize a course in this Peace of Parliament on this issue, the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira to the Heritage of Humanity. I invite everyone and everyone to take part in this course, if they consider it appropriate. I now refer to some examples of investigations carried out on the basis of the complaints submitted in 2014. It'll only be a small alternative to the issues we've been dealing with, in which we try to help at all times to advance the quality of public services in Galicia. The first of these examples refers to the so-called ground clauses in mortgage loans, i.e. agreements limiting the variability of interest. From a legal-social point of view, ground clauses are an example of abuse of dominant position, unfair because it does not allow the logical evolution of markets to benefit consumers properly. In view of this, it is necessary for banking institutions to show social sensitivity and not take advantage of people by means of these clauses. The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court is clear in the face of information and transparency deficits. The biggest collective complaint of the year 2014 referred precisely to bank abuse, signed nothing more and nothing less than 6,700 people. Similarly, Valador's actions must be underlined in defense of the Greek language. No doubt one of the axes that move this institution is the legal and moral obligation to preserve and promote the language we inherit from our ancestors. Public authorities and society must properly protect and disseminate the Welsh language and leave it in an excellent condition for the future. It seems that we must insist on the use of Greek in interpersonal relationships in the private sphere, in the technological field and in the family nuclei. We'll have to get closer to the population, especially to the newest, German technology. So the promotion of initiatives such as ".gal" domain, rather than we were pioneers, contributes to identifying that newer population with our language. The Valador applauds these and other initiatives that contribute to creating a Welsh digital identity in the virtual world. It is also useful to design audiovisual products, as well as radio content, attractive to citizenship. Valador also works in favour of language at the international level, through the so-called IALC, which is the International Association of Linguistic Commissioners. We request in 2014 our admission to the so-called international association to give a boost to our language. Now we formally integrate that association. Others of our actions affect the relevant subject of rejections. The Valador has been working for years with specific performances to ensure a decent home for all people. In this way, in the face of the challenge of evictions, we articulate multiple and diverse activities with those affected, with the support platforms, with the social services of the Union, with the social services of the municipalities, with the judicial bodies and with the banking institutions. And all this succeeds, because we've always been able to stop the defiance that came to us in the form of a complaint. Even so, we must emphasize our work in favour of the integration of people with disabilities. This is a challenge of democratic quality and moral imperative for all. In this way, we seek to promote the rights of persons with disabilities by promoting their autonomy, mobility and accessibility, access to leisure and culture, sport and quality of life. There were also various issues dealt with that affect minors as a collective: cyberbullyng, poverty, obesity, alcohol and other drugs. These issues affecting minors must be investigated on a permanent basis, that is, they should be lines of continuous work and not just isolated complaints. In this sense, the fight against the risk of social exclusion of the Galician families, especially those who have the least in charge, goes through the highest efforts of administration and society. The variables that can cause these situations are clearly identified. Now what we have to develop is broad spectrum indicators that make it possible to measure child inequality in a multidimensional way. Without quality data, it is not possible to discuss the specific legal and policy measures to be taken or to create follow-up and annual evaluation processes to measure action plans on poverty and inequality. Thus, it seems necessary to intensify support for municipal social services in order to develop programmes directed primarily to homes with minors. In the consumption of alcohol and other drugs by minors, we demand a genuine commitment from mothers and parents, who must take on the obligations of the homeland's power. In addition, public authorities must carry out information and awareness campaigns, monitoring studies and accurate and efficient protocols for such action. In connection with issues already mentioned, we have other actions by this Ombudsman to fight against social exclusion. The real genetic profile of an ombudsman is to help people who find themselves in a vulnerable situation, in a situation of social exclusion. This fight is supposed to affect the intrinsic equality Robert Dahl spoke of to say democracy was the best system. Most social complaints refer in 2014, to delays and denials of social inclusion aid or municipal emergency aid. In many cases we confirm delays, although also in many others who are supposed to be in our intervention, it has led to the final resolution and payment of the benefit. We always call for rapid processing in the resolution of these procedures by the responsible authorities. Indeed, situations of social exclusion or risk require this rapid reaction, because otherwise these social benefits are not useful. The increase in applications for aid has led to the administrations also increasing the budgetary share devoted to them. In the field of the environment, this institution receives various complaints in which we advocate conservationism and a strong idea of sustainability to preserve the rich natural spaces we have in Galicia, our flora and our fauna. In another sense, the numerous complaints related to local corporations seek, above all, in 2014, to overcome obstacles in access to municipal information and documentation. It is important to make progress in this direction so that neighbours become real active subjects of municipal life. On the subject of energy poverty we had to resolve different complaints about it. Energy poverty is a new concept derived from a more demanding society, more aware of its position, more demanding – as I said before –. It's about updating the social state, adapting it to new needs, which is again connected to what it said before the challenges that currently have human rights in the 21st century. To correct these unfavorable effects of rising energy prices, the so-called "electric social bond" – which is state aid – was created. And in addition to this aid, Galicia has established the so-called "social energy bill", which became effective last year. In any event, this institution believes that it is necessary to set social prices or reduced rates subsidised for people in a vulnerable situation which allow them to have the minimum necessary to enjoy dignified and healthy living conditions. In this field we should also ask for the collaboration of energy suppliers, who are sensitive and responsible when producing cuts, for example, in delicate moments – in winter –. We must, of course, demand social awareness and social responsibility in their activities. I'm done. Norberto Bobbio, the Italian master, said that public authorities should seek justice through policies of integration and tolerance. I understand that the Valador is powerfully helping to achieve this goal driven by an institutional commitment of continuous progress and updating in the search for best practices that satisfy all those who approach us for help. Human rights give true epistemological meaning to the functioning of this ombudsman, committed to the progress of society, especially those who need it most because of his vulnerability. Without a doubt, the most unprotected people are the main object of our developments to try to improve their situation, it's a task of giants but it's also of justice. Thank you very much for your attention right now. Thank you very much to all my Commissioners, that is, to all Members, for their cooperation and assistance at all times to this Commissioner. I therefore go up to the guest gallery to listen to their comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u4	Thank you very much, Valador. The second vice president will accompany Valador. Once the Valedor report has been heard, the parliamentary groups turn to set positions. [[Pause.]] For the Joint Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to begin by congratulating Valador on his work during this year 2014, even though on some occasions he doesn't share his criteria. What are the Galicians and the Greeks complaining about in front of the People's Valedor? I think it's crucial to know what they're complaining about. And they complain about the lack of action of the Galician Union, 80% of the complaints refer to the actions of the Galician Union. And the most complaints received are the health and education councils, which would be to take note of by the Government. In addition, although now the Valator in his intervention seems to say something else, he takes up a lack of duty to collaborate with the institutions, and above all with the board of Galicia, with the People's Valor in his role. So he gathered that he had to reiterate the request for documentation to the Education Council 34 times; that of Labour, 24 times; that of the Environment, 18 times; and that of the Middle Rural and the Sea, 15 times. Of course, a total abandonment of your obligation to collaborate with the People's Valedor. But besides, the Greeks and the Greeks are complaining about the violation of rights that people are suffering in access to certain aids or processes opened by the Administration. So, for example, the violation of rights in the selective process of the Monforte fire station, something already spoken in this Parliament, which is the precarious work that this collective is suffering. Precautionary that is also reported in the People's Valor Report on Public Health; in particular, the opaque functioning of the recruitment lists and the non-replacement of the staff, thus undermining both the working conditions and the care quality it provides. Privatizations, payments, payouts and compensations in health are contained in the Valador report, which denounces the enormous impact these measures have on the most vulnerable people. As a result, Valedor recognizes a significant number of citizens who report the deterioration of public services in health facilities as a result of the decrease in staff and the lack of material resources. They influence these cuts in the quality and equity of access to services, as happens, for example – and appears in the report – in the HULA Hemodynamic Service or in CHOU Pediatric Surgery. In addition, I would like to highlight the caution or reflection that Valador makes on this subject when he speaks of children from scheduled pediatric surgery from the Vigo area to Our Lady of Fatima Hospital. I mean, it's clear that there's a clear intention to privatize and divert patients into private health. Another example of violation of rights, and that should also be solved in advance without reaching Valador, are copyright violations on Galician Radio-Television, or also other offences, such as administrative law or non-action in defiance. The Valator reiterates the need to speed up the establishment of a social housing fund – no more to stop these evictions, which is a scandal that Valador himself acknowledges that the actions of the People's Valedor have served to stop many evictions, for the Janta's inannition, which he was able to do these acts and stop the rejections. It is also a demand, already made since the opposition on repeated occasions in this Parliament, the creation of social housing in lease schemes. Therefore, a non-existent policy on housing by the Galician Union. But there is also a total lack of transparency about environmental performances. Thus, the People's Valuer's Report considers – as it has in its day considered opposition, and so has it – that the Plan of Extractive Activities of Galicia should never have been drafted by the Mining House. I mean, you can't get the wolf looking after the sheep. And so we find ourselves with various processes, such as the current Eiros cave, where the Galician Union, apart from the opacity throughout the system, completely despises the conservation of our heritage. But the same has also happened with the works of the AVE in the Natural Park of Winterfell and in many other places, because the allegations of the destruction of the environment that are causing the works of the AVE now come only from its own beginning, which have provoked, have provoked and continue to cause pollution of land and water, destruction of natural heritage and cultural heritage. He also collects the Valuer's Report repeated complaints about LOMCE and recognizes the Valeur himself who has brought confusion to the educational community and to society in general. Therefore, it is necessary – and I would like to reiterate – to avoid bias or ideology of something as important as education, that – I insist – the majority group needs to be generous enough to try not to transfer its ideology through education and seek a consensus in education that, of course, does not have LOMCE. The same is true of the system of professional qualifications, which affects citizens' chances of reaching employment, mobility, lifelong learning and social cohesion. A lot of students lost their scholarships in exchange for the family situation. So the LOMCE system and the new scholarship system – recognised by the People's Valuer himself – are driving many young and young people out of the education system. We also talk about poverty, of continuing situations of social emergency that are totally invisible to the Galician Union, that Valador himself collects that it is necessary to guarantee a minimum adequate income for families because poverty, because poor nutrition, child malnutrition, is not a problem for children, but it is a family problem; that is, the children are starving, they are undernourished, when the family is already suffering from many other needs, because the last thing to stop doing the family is to feed their children. There are complaints in social services as well. One of the situations that seems alarming – verified by me infinite times in my union work during my union life – is like in the social services that care for dependency, and, above all, those who care for older, the larger ones are tied to chairs and beds to prevent them from moving because of lack of staff; older people who remain attached to a chair in the same position hours and hours and hours. And not only that, but that in those hours they don't change their diapers or they're allowed any kind of activity. I would therefore deserve a strong investigation from the Galician Union, since most of these residences have a concert with the Galician Union. A little while, ten minutes, to talk about all that this Valador report collects, but, above all, I want to highlight dependency defaults, which mainly affect large dependents and caregivers, who in 94% are women. It's creating, therefore, a group of poor women who will be poor elders. Women abandoned by the Administration, who were unable to have initiatives and rejected all opposition proposals to bring about equal rights and duties between men and women. Women who suffer from the wage gap, part-time contracts, and a lot – more and more – of problems in reconciling work and family life, in addition to the administration's booting of the system and turning them into free caregivers. Lack of administration ethics, a lack of alarming ethics, a lack of alarming humanity, when he plays with time to pay the amounts due to the people who charge the Rising, setting up obstacles and expanding times, no longer answering, abusing the administrative silence, saying that there is no money to pay them, as if the people who will receive him could go to the bank and tell them: wait for you to have no money; when Junta has money I will pay my house, the light, the water... it is indecent that Junta does not pay the people who need that money to survive. It is indecent that the default of the board of benefits already granted leads many people to lose their homes and that the board keeps their impassability in the face of the loss of their homes, instead of assuming, at least, the payment of that housing due to the debt it owes to those people who have the right to receive such aid. Time's up. But I believe that, above all, there is a clear conclusion in the whole report of the People's Valor: the Galician Union continues to govern for great fortunes, for monopolies, and has in total and absolute abandonment of the people of Greece; above all, those most in need of government aid to which it directs to social exclusion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Jorquera Caselas speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Valador, in only ten minutes it is certainly difficult to evaluate a report of more than 1,300 pages. That's why I'm going to try to focus on those aspects that we consider most relevant and which, in addition, coincide with the concerns of citizens, as they reveal the global data themselves collected in the report. It is significant, in this sense, that 2014 was the year in which Valdoria received more complaints. It's significant that most complaints affect Galician Union and, in particular, councils that absorb more social expenditure. As it is also significant that, among the matters dealt with before the Valedoria with the support of a plurality of persons, complaints about evictions, ground clauses and other abusive clauses of banking entities should be raised. On many occasions, we have been discussing the rejections in this Parliament, and the report contains some conclusions that we consider to be outstanding. Inadequate legal changes and measures are recognised. The possibility of accepting the gift paid was insufficient – said the report – because very restrictive economic requirements have been established that leave many affected. As they are also very restrictive – the report is repulsed – the requirements to accommodate the possibility that the launch may be suspended for a period of two years. And there's a clear tip of ears because of the delay in creating a social housing fund, accompanied by the observation that the requirements for access should be flexible. In another order, it seems very illustrative of the social emergency situation that we are experiencing the increase in complaints in the area of social services. Complaints motivated by delays and other problems arising from the care of personal autonomy and the promotion of personal autonomy are now the ones motivated by delays and obstacles in granting Risk and other aid. In some cases, the beneficiaries of the Risk suffer delays of up to one year, a matter which the BNG has repeatedly denounced in this same Parliament. The report points out that delays add up to interpretative doubts to accommodate the aid brought by Law 10/2013. In this sense, I would like to remind you that, at the initiative of the BNG, the agreement has been reached that the administrative silence assumes the automatic granting of the Risk when the legal maximum established to respond to the request is exceeded. But the report shows that it is not being applied, which, together with the abolition of the three-month interim payment guarantee, only aggravates the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, this situation which reflects the report is a demonstration of the absolute lack of the slightest social sensitivity on the part of the current government. According to a recent report by the European Network of Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, Galicia has over 90,000 people in severe poverty, more than 370,000 people in poverty and nearly 700,000 at risk of poverty. And with this emergency situation it is simply scandalous that these pitfalls and delays in granting aid occur. The report also reports numerous non-compliances in relation to dependency. Stresses the existence of considerable delays in the care programmes and the effectiveness of the services and benefits allocated. Delays that are even more considerable in applications for economic benefits. And he realizes many other problems generated by cutting policies in this area. We are also interested in comments about energy poverty. Energy poverty in Galicia continues to increase despite the paradox that we are a surplus country in electricity production. It is estimated that it already affects 100,000 Greek homes, and the report realises that the number of applicants for the social energy ticket established by the Union is simply ridiculous, only 352. The reason: the conditions for benefit are very restrictive and, in addition, only telematics can be requested, when people who are in a state of energy poverty, as it is obvious, in most cases also have enormous difficulties in accessing new technologies. And besides, it's not enough to provide the income statement, but it's also mandatory to report on municipal social services. The report advocates precautionary measures, such as preventing the cut-off or interruption of the service to persons suffering from this situation. But, as we have already stated in committee, from our point of view it is not enough to appeal only to the social responsibility of companies. It is necessary to adopt shock measures from the political point of view to combat this important social problem. As far as health is concerned, one fact that speaks for itself is that it absorbs more than 25% of the complaints filed by individuals. Most of the complaints are motivated by the deterioration in the quality of public health, and much of them by the impact of the deterioration in health personnel cuts. And speaking of clippings, it's very interesting that the conclusions relating, by setting an example, to the suppression of pediatric surgery services in the University Hospital Complex of Ourense. There's a new shot of ears at the Councillor's office, which has also largely dismissed the Valador's recommendation. Valedoria recommended the continuity of the service, recalling that in every health centre the emergency service is a primary service to ensure immediate health care in an emergency situation, apart from the economic and family disorders that represent the transfer to Vigo, and remembering that we are also talking about minors, users who require special protection. Therefore, the quality appeal cannot be an alibi for dismantling the service. In teaching, among other things, the alert report of the deterioration – and in many cases, genuine degradation – of educational centres, especially those of the highest age, and the lack of coverage of specific educational needs. With regard to public employment, we agree on the importance, as reflected in the report, of limiting timeliness. For this is totally incompatible with the provision of quality public services. In the environment it is clear that, twenty years after the entry into force of the rules on transparency and citizen participation, its application presents important shortcomings, requests for information are not met in time or are not adequately satisfied and the rules on the participation of environmental organisations in the consultation bodies are not complied with. And concerning the Corcoesto mine, the report says textually that the environmental impact declaration would not be valid to reactivate the request; that is, the new procedure should start from scratch, against the thesis that has so far been supported by the Galician Union. It is obvious that, in the case of minors, we agree with the urgency of intensifying economic support for Community municipal services in order to avoid situations of risk of poverty and social exclusion. It seems very important to us to note that there is a need to expand the resources available at boarding schools, as far as deprivation of liberty measures are concerned. The report says textually that the current situation makes it difficult to the extent that many of the general principles that inspire the juvenile justice system can be respected. The report advocates looking for formulae for the public ownership of the artistic collections of the old boxes. In terms of language it highlights deficits – when there are no breaches of legality – very important in the communication in English of public administrations. Also in communication through new technologies and in the communication of companies that provide services to the community, which neither use nor care for customers in Greek. The report points out that policies on discrimination on the basis of sexual identity and gender identity are not enough. It highlights the report that the crisis, and most of the social problems resulting from it, has a woman's face. Here's the importance of public policies taking into account equality in all its aspects, and alerting young people to the perception of gender-based violence. As I said at the beginning, it's really hard to evaluate a report of more than 1,300 pages in just ten minutes. For that reason, to a large extent, I have limited myself to comment on some of the aspects which the BNG Parliamentary Group seems to be more outstanding, without extending to our assessment and proposals. But, in any case, I mean emphatically that the BNG Parliamentary Group takes good note of many of the comments contained in this report. Because the issues that motivated complaints to the Valedor are not only symptomatic of citizens' concerns, they are also symptomatic of what are the main deficiencies and needs in the times we live. And they are ultimately symptomatic of the devastating effects on public services, social policies and therefore the preservation of social cohesion of cutting policies. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u8	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u9	Good morning to all and to all. First of all, to welcome the intervention of the people's valet, if we have to highlight the contradiction that has been made between their oral intervention, which we consider somewhat in line with the action of the Welsh Executive, and his report, the report submitted by the Valador, by the department, by his colleagues too, because the report does affect the behaviour – let's say – contradictory of what must be a public administration, which must be, first of all, guaranteeing the citizenship rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. And in that sense, that's why you shouldn't or should not be surprised that you've raised 28% compared to 2013 the number of individual complaints. It's a pretty significant number. And this has two readings to our understanding: on the one hand, citizenship knows perfectly well that the Valator is a privileged channel that can be useful for the defence of its rights, but at the same time what comes to mean that the Public Administration – as it said – violates its obligations as such. It has already been said here that the number of complaints, for example, 76%, more than 76%, covers four key issues: employment, justice, economics, transparency and health. And it's really alarming. But if we focus on complaints that target the action of the Galician Board, 86.40%, that is, 8,342 complaints about 9,655, they affect the Education Council and the Health Council. An alarming number, because it indicates, in addition, the work that has been carried out by Alternative Left Glaga as well as other parliamentary groups on the constant degradation to which the Greek Executive is submitting basic public services and which should be the most exponents for the defence and guarantee of citizenship rights. And above all, it must be noted that it is the Councillor of Education to which most of the time it was called attention to its duty to inform, and that it has more times failed to heed or failed to comply with the resolution mandated by the People's Valedor. So, in addition, this has an impact on what we have denounced since the Alternative Gaga de Left, which shows, of course, that the Council of Education and Culture has an unethical behavior, because, in addition, it should not surprise us if we consider it to be the department that has a greater number of judgments contrary to its political action, which is an action that degrades the rights of citizens in access to public education. We'll come in a little further to talk about this department. With regard to the different areas worked and the results of the research of the People's Valedor, we must basically highlight the irregularities that exist in several of these areas. For example, in the field of public employment, irregularities in staff selection processes. Something that shouldn't just exist; lamentable. Also the perverse use of administrative silence; it has already been said here. With regard to the area of urbanism and housing, it is necessary to draw attention to the observation made by the People's Valedor on the need to revoke the abolition of aid to subsidize, which is based on an interpretation – to our understanding – wrong, but which the People's Valedor says is not the most appropriate one, to guarantee the rights of citizenship with regard to precisely that aid. We therefore effectively support that revocation and logically grant all the denied aid. The People's Valator of Deficiencies in Official Protection Housing, has already been mentioned here about the defeats for mortgage debt and that there is an urgent need to create that social housing fund. This logically requires action by the Public Administration, by the Galician Council, in cooperation with the municipalities as well as with the State. In the area of the environment, we will logically highlight the non-compliances again. Failures to comply with the ASUS Convention, which says that transparency must be maintained and participation with regard to information must be maintained. But here again we have unfounded denials. For example, the Galician Natural History Society never responded to their requests. We will highlight, as the BNG spokesman has already done, the need for all proceedings, including environmental impact on the Corcoesto mine, to be completely diminished. Similarly, in an action that Alternative Left-Galga took forward, we will highlight the need to respect the cave of Eiros. Tricastela's exploitation endangers Galicia's most important rock art and possibly the peninsula. So we understand and, in addition, we have taken an initiative to raise it to the heritage of humanity and protect it from the outcome to which it is being subjected. In education, it has been said that the application of LOMCE coincides with what the Left Galaga Alternative said: it is done without time, it produces structural dysfunctions and also in a context of budget cuts that prevent proper development exactly what must be required of the Education Council, and above all the Education Council requires educational centres. So we understand that LOMCE should not develop the way it is being done. It also stresses the report by the People's Valuer on the lack of legal certainty in higher education, on the need for, for example, to improve the whole aspect of infrastructure and maintenance of schools that have already grown older. Or, for example, in solving the numerous situations of violation of rights in the area of attention to diversity in educational centres, and here alternative Left Galega in the various initiatives found the majority group's refusal. Where there is a remarkable increase in complaints is in social services, because that is precisely where citizenship is experiencing the greatest crisis, the biggest scam, which is the denial of living with dignity. And that is being denied in housing, in energy poverty, in non-compliance with the Dependency Act, in lack of material and human resources. It's called for municipal social services to fulfill their obligation, but they're dismantling. A person of a municipality cannot attack all the social issues that this council offers, and demands from the Council of Galicia a firm attitude to defend the rights of citizenship. And they're also failing in matters -- it's said here -- of minors. Much has been said, and Alternative Left Galeg has requested precisely the protection of the People's Valedor so that a study would be conducted that would enable the detection of the nutritional problems of the child population and be able to attack through effective programs this problem. It had to be the People's Valuer who had started his study. And in his study, he actually highlights that he still has to study because no data is available, no specific data is provided to address this problem, but there is. And while this problem exists, what do you do? Ah! for saying that school eaters have to stay closed, because it's a family problem. We say we have to combine all the axes of action, because municipal social services are being dismantled. So they can't exactly work what needs to work, which is in families. And so the Galician Union must cross-frontierly tackle this whole problem of basic income so as to allow these people to be financially sufficient and live with dignity, tackle the problem of making it easier for educational infrastructures to open up at all times on vacation, to offer through complementary programs that allow employment and family reconciliation also a solution to the food problem that is living in the Galician families. It's a necessity. And I wanted to end by appealing to a collective that can't go to the People's Valley, a collective that has no one to defend their citizenship rights more than those collectives who are dedicated precisely to defending them. I mean the immigrant population collective. Immigrants live in a situation of health exclusion, as the World Doctors have said; they live in denial of access to the Risk, because they ask for an incompatible requirement as it is to be discharged from the census of foreign residents in Madrid, which also calls for economic adequacy. And how can they have it if they ask Risga? But here he refused to change that request. And then the express deportations and the police harassment. They live a real torture every day in full democracy, and that, of course, proves that we don't live in democracy. And it must be said that Galicia, the Government of Galicia, guarantees the citizenship rights of all people living in Galicia, wherever they are. So we understand that much remains to be done and we welcome the call of attention from the People's Valedor. We also take note of many suggestions contained in it to raise them through initiatives, and we will see what the People's Party is doing there at that time when it has to press the button of itself or not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u10	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. You have the word Miss Patricia Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u11	Thank you, President. To talk about the people's Valedor report is to talk about civil rights, and today's civil rights is to talk about Pedro Zerolo, who died today, tonight. [[Applause]] We have to give good time to the Valator and his team for this 2014 work on issues such as housing, environment, education, health, women's rights, the right to access information... so many civil rights that it would be impossible in ten minutes to speak of all. But the socialists are going to talk about the tremendous erosion that the People's Party and its policies are causing our social, democratic and law-based state, of which you talk so often. And the first thing I want to do is to repeat the valet's words in the commission of this last May 29th, when he said, "The principle of austerity is not a constitutional principle." We take note on this side of the bench, we expect them to take note on that side too. The Valador's report is a censorship of the austerity policy of the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, which has caused an obvious deterioration of all public services, and especially in health, education and social policies. In education there are many things to report, but two especially remove the heart of decent people. I'm talking about improvements in school buildings. The Valor himself says that there are ongoing complaints and that the board itself recognises problems in adapting a large number of centres of certain ages to the minimum requirements that must legally meet educational institutions. And in his report he talks about – we're talking about children –: lack of adequate thermal insulation; blankets of fibrosis; condensations and humiditys in walls and ceilings; obsolete sanitation; lack of electrical power or poor installation; lack of adaptation to students with mobility problems; problems of access and road safety through the transit of private vehicles, pedestrians or buses in reduced enclosures; many schools without covered patio, which obliges the student to stay in the classroom or concentrate on covered spaces, reduced frequent days of rain. Page 353 of the Valador report, which we would like if the Education Adviser were present, to read carefully. We are also talking about the need for educational support for children with difficulties, because early attention is fundamental, it is priority, and the Valator says that "it cannot be affected by criteria of expenditure efficiency or other considerations". You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, provoke waves to early attention, and this government – as I said before – has no heart. What about health? It's still a cause for complaints about the decrease and insufficient provision of health personnel, and there were 4,095 complaints this year for the Health Council's decision to abolish the continued Care Service in pediatric surgery at the Ourense Hospital Complex. It affects a collective of, again, minors, under the age of 14, especially from 0 to 3 years, and it's more than 30,000. And the Health Counsel responded to Valador coldly with the following words: "All the quality and safety parameters are being met with human and material resources." We're talking about children, and the answer is absolutely cold; the Council has passed from the Valador's recommendation. So I repeat: you have no heart, you don't respect standards, you don't respect people's rights. And I'm talking about the rights of conciliators and conciliators who in local corporations day by day are violating their fundamental right of access to information under Article 23 of the Constitution of 1978. I filed 25 files in 2014, and in 2013 they were 16. I am speaking in particular – and that although the Vice-President of the Board – of the Council of Cambados, that council that is one of the cores of the People's Party, that council of what the vice-president was its municipal secretary, because the Council of Cambados and the Mayor of Cambados repeatedly deny access to information to our fellow socialists in the Council of Cambados. So much so that a dispute-administrative trial in Pontevedra has required the mayor and even imposed a fine on the mayor for not providing the required documentation. The truth is, I don't know if you'll be ashamed of me, but I'd be ashamed that one of my mayors was in that situation. In ten minutes I don't have time, but the Labour and Welfare Council deserves attention, special treatment. The reduction in funds from 2009 to December 31, 2014 was 535 million euros; Valador increased the volume of files in this matter by 41%, the volume of claimants by 78%. The Counsellor is not even able to make a simple disability card, which, by the way, is in Andalusia, because it says it is necessary to fix a development agenda for this card. What about the San Francisco de Vigo center? We live here the sad show with the work and well-being advisor and we think it deserves a follow-up after we read the Valador report. What about the operation of service 065? That the Valator last year asked the advisor to change his policy, and he goes on in the same line as last year. "Pace olympicically" – as is said in a colloquially way – of Valador's recommendations. This relates to the application of the dependency law in Galicia. Valador says the results, the problems are the same as those of 2013. We're the Autonomous Community with more people on the waiting list, up to 16,000 according to Valador, 18,000 with the recognized but unattended benefit, more than 7,000 people have died in the limbo of dependency since 2012. And I'm going to put another example on page 553 of the report, which we would like the advisor – who is not – also read, who speaks of a person who started a proceeding in October 2008, had no resolution, made a complaint to the Valator in 2013, there was a recommendation from the Valator to the Council and the lady died at the end of 2014 without recognizing her dependence. This is your situation. And then her heirs ask for claims for compensation for death, justice says they have the right to her, but the Labour and Welfare Council curiously decides that they have no kind of right. The Valator says there's a bad spot on the Council, and we'll re-read it here. The number of risk applications and social emergency aid has increased. It's true, the advisor, repeatedly, remember him in this House, but what he doesn't say is what the Valador report says, which is "in the cause of the deterioration of living conditions." It would be nice if you read Valador's report. There are delays in granting the Risga request, delays in reinstatement after work, disagreements in revisions, delays in lifting resources against denial resolutions, delays in granting plugins. An absolute disaster, and when Risga hides an emergency situation that doesn't allow delay. The counselor, in addition, in situations of urgency, passes from the positive silence, which would be favorable to the people who apply for the Risk. The worst thing is he didn't fulfill last year's commitment to resolve and pay urgently. The same goes for minors. What about the center of Montealegre, Counselor, who isn't? We would like to know why it continues in works and why we know absolutely nothing about the solution of this problem. And the same is true of the poor families in child feeding. We give Valedor good time for his consideration. In short, from the Valador's report, the absolute frivolity of the Labour and Welfare Council is unleashed, it is discovered that the Government of Feijóo and the People's Party have caused an absolute disaster with their shameful management of the Dependency Act and the unstoppable deterioration in education and health. In short, we socialists demand, since you, gentlemen of the People's Party and lords of the Government, have not read the report of the Valedor of 2013, which read closely that of the year 2014, and after the severe correction of Valador to health counsellors, but above all work and wellbeing, it would be good for the president of the board to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor Mr Baamonde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also greet the valet lord of the people and his team in this audience to make the 2014 report available to this House and society in general a formidable tool and a formidable X-ray of the functioning of the services of the Greek Public Administration. First of all, I, like all the other groups that preceded me in the use of the word, want to add myself to the congratulations received by the Valoror, for his work, and also for his report. Congratulation unites that he comes to prove that the Valor lord is doing his job well. And in this sense I would like to reaffirm the strong support and commitment of the People's Party to an institution which was set up by governments of the People's Party and which at that time President Fraga himself referred to it as an institution absolutely necessary for political control and institution absolutely necessary to improve the functioning of the Public Administration through the finding of its evas, which is essentially the work that fulfills the report of the Valedor. As far as valuation is concerned, it is true that the report by the structure itself and by the institution's configuration may be ill with numerical quantification and excess descriptive composition. And in that sense, we thank Valador's efforts to facilitate his understanding through the determination of the inclusion in his report of sociological references and also of the change of methodology. In order to assess, of course, we are not going to go into the specific detail of each of the areas that are collected in it, but if we underline an elemental question: as happened in the Committee on Petitions, as it has often been, because there is a diversity of views on it. It is true that as far as opposition is concerned, the diversity of opinions will have to be placed in that criterion that marked that great tourner Rafael El Guerra, who, after an afternoon in which he was fired with a monumental broom across the square, told a friend: "My performance was collected with divided opinions, some remembered my father, others remembered my mother." And in this particular case it is true that the opposition groups, some of them remember the poor functioning of certain public services, others of the actions of the Galician Union, but, ultimately, within that division of views all agree to use the Valedor report as a critical side of the Government's action and try to reflect a chaotic situation of the Government of Galicia. Obviously, as far as the Popular Group is concerned, our valuation is different. We do not like or dislike the report of the People's Valedor, as we are aware that it expresses the voice of citizenship and that it is therefore not made in favour of anyone or against anyone. We are aware that through its own configuration and by collecting the complaints of citizenship, they are actually reflected in the report that is in the functioning of the public services of the Government of Galicia. Eivas that I will not repeat because I have already exposed them to the Valator, they are already clearly explained in that report hung on the website, and they have already insisted on them by the opposition groups. But if I have to say that the careful examination of the report, the balanced examination, because they lead us to something elementary: firstly, to the finding of the different attitude of the Galician Union in relation to the report of the Valedor. In previous stages, the Valedor's report was a little welcomed as the Betanzos globe, with great expectation at the time it was produced, but automatically, according to the globe you don't know where it's going to stop, neither did the report if it was heedful again and the Public Administration made deaf ears at all that was determined in it. Well, that situation has clearly changed with regard to the action of the Government of Galicia since President Núñez Feijóo's presidency. The Board does not make deaf ears, but reacts positively to suggestions contained in the Valedor as regards the functioning of the Greek public services. Be careful, Mrs. Vilán, that all the councillors and all the officials of the Galician Union reflect on this report, and the Greek Government very much. It shows this positive reaction, because I would first of all quote the institutional respect set out here in this gallery by the Valor himself. It is true that there are certain exceptions, and particularly in the area of local government or provincial administration, the Valador institution is used as a mechanism for political denunciation. Here were specific references to some council. There are, of course, exceptional situations; there are also some Members; for example, Lugo received two complaints accepted by Valador, and we could cite specific cases of municipalities in which this situation of lack of cooperation occurs, but on general lines, as the valet itself pointed out, it has been shown how frankly it is positive, and so it points out, for example, the disappearance in recent years of such frequent hostile statements at other times. Secondly, it shows this positive attitude of the Galician Union I would stress the acceptance by the Galician Government itself of the suggestions and recommendations contained in the report. Taking a look at what is contained in the 2014 report itself and without needing to be exhaustive, I would like to give some examples: acceptance of recommendations regarding the loan for the acquisition of public protection housing, increased risk resources and inclusion aids, increased services to the detriment of dependency aid, rapid and satisfactory response to complaints about waiting lists, the launch of a Galego Observatory of Gender Violence or the proper management of the preferences arbitrations. I would also point out as an example of this positive attitude of the Galician Union the pacification that has been observed in recent years in respect of areas that were previously extremely conflicting. For example: the environment, justice, fire – which in other cases was authentically incendiary, and Valedor himself warned of social alarm in this regard – and also the abandonment of functions and actions by the respective Government. I would also like to underline, since the Valor has referred to it, the pacification of the language issue that is observed in the Valador's latest reports. And I refer to this call to the defense of the Greek, especially in the way in which the Valor did it through positive actions for the promotion and defense of the language. On the question of numerals, here reference was made to it. It is true that it increases the number of files and reaches the figure of 24,000, but it is also true that it decreases the number of cases, which are 2,310 instead of the 2,746 of the previous year; the question of grouping complaints to which the honourable Member referred. By the way, that fact that citizenship goes to the Valador institution in mass, on the one hand, is a reason for satisfaction and congratulations to the Valador himself as he comes to demonstrate trust. If citizenship goes to Valedor, logically, it's because it has confidence in the institution. But it is also true that he raises a question that would force the serious reflection on all political groups, rather than that massive presence, these grouped complaints refer to an obvious circumstance, which is agronomizing a much more participatory social class, much less passive to the actions of the public authorities and which calls for protagonistism in the management of the issues that interest him. In particular, the fact that he goes to an institution such as that of Valador, endowed with authors but not with empire, points out that in many cases citizenship begins to seek out of politics complaints and solutions to problems. I am finished, Madam President, reiterating my congratulations to Valador on the approach to citizenship, on the ease of claiming that citizenship through the incorporation of new technologies, on the attention to issues of social concern such as the creation of a new area of social identity and gender. And I also reiterate the People's Party's commitment to the institution. We are not like the priests of the Archprist of Hita, who, when they come up to the pulpit, do one thing and then say another; we, in opposition and in government, always reiterate the absolute respect for the institution and so we will continue to do it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u14	Thank you very much. We continue the development of the agenda with point 2 of legislative texts. Debates and votes on the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Food, Glanding and Mountains on the draft legislation on improvement of the agricultural structure of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u15	They remain for the full amendment of the Joint Group, the Galician Nationalist Block, the Alternative Left Galician and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The President of the Commission, Mr Vidal Martín-Sierra López, spoke for the presentation of the Commission's dictum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Tell me about the draft legislation on improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on December 2, 2014. The Bureau of Parliament issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament and the opening of the deadline for the amendments. Even so, listening to the spokesperson's board, he agreed to attend the 7th Committee on Agriculture, Food, Gloves and Mountains. The amendments to the whole were qualified by the Bureau of the Commission 7th on 12 January 2015, and the partial amendments on 23 March 2015. The parliamentary groups of the Alternative Glaga de Left, the Galego Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists each presented amendments to the whole, which were rejected at the plenary session of February 10, 2015. As for the partial amendments, the People's Parliamentary Group made thirty, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia twenty-five, the Parliamentary Group of the Forty-Fifteenth Left, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego ninety, and the Joint Parliamentary Group ten. Commission 7a appointed the following speakers: by the People's Group of Galicia, Ms María Isabel García Pacín as the holder and Fr José Antonio Freire Abeijón as alternate; by the Socialists of Galicia, Fr Pablo García García as the holder and Don María Soledad Soneira Tajes as alternate; by the Alternative Gaga de Left, Fr Antón Sánchez García as the holder, and Fr Ramon Vázquez Díaz as alternate; and, finally, by the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms María Terêsea Paz Franco as the owner and don Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo as alternate. The Constitutive Session of the Presidency took place on 20 April 2015, with the assistance of the Chairman of the 7th Commission. The Presidency held its meeting on 27 April and 4 and 11 May, in which the amendments submitted and the draft text were discussed, and the report was drawn up, which was put to the debate and the vote at the 7th meeting of the Committee on 29 May, and all proposals from the Presidency were ratified. The articulated text of the dictame contains ninety-eight articles, three additional layouts, five transitional layouts and five last ones, and is structured into ten titles. Title I, referring to general provisions, regulates the object of law, the general objectives, the scope of application, the types of land structure improvement processes, and the definitions of terms used throughout their articulation. Title II is dedicated to the regulation of partial restructuring processes of a public character, when the impulse is on the part of the Administration. Title III is dedicated to restructuring by private people, when impulse makes it a group generated expressly to carry it out. Title IV refers to restructuring by permuting with the assumed exchange rate or not in the form of the permuted plots. Title V collects two cases of special processes: for public works and cut mining, whose execution conditions the viability of agricultural holdings. Titles VI and VII contain, respectively, the provisions relating to works inherent in the partial restructuring processes, as well as the effects and the financing and public aid scheme. Title IX sets up areas of intensive action, with a view to increasing their sustainability, competitiveness and integral rural development. And finally, title X collects the sanctioning regime. So far, the work of the 7th Commission, which I am presiding over. It is therefore necessary to complete the legislative procedure today by submitting its ruling to plenary consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u17	Thank you very much. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u18	Well, I'll start my speech by defending my Amendment No 10, adding to the explanatory statement of three new paragraphs with the following text: "The reduction in the number of farms that have occurred because of the disappearance of dairy cows has led to the current situation of cows without land and land without cows. Under the pretext of modernization to adapt to the milk quotas imposed by the Treaty of Accession to the Common Market, the vast majority of farms have disappeared and others have been pushed into debt to acquire quota and adopt a model of food based on purchase and production, not on land production. For the purposes of the predominant agricultural policy in the last thirty years, they have ruined the countryside, but they have also seriously damaged the trade of the villages. But the most serious thing was the liquidation of the genuine food production system, efficient and environmentally respectful, instead of promoting a genuine modernization that should focus on further improving land production." So we started from an absolute lack of self-criticism and critical analysis of the actions that brought us to the present situation of our farm. The biggest problem in this bill is the same as the general flaw that has almost all the normative work of the People's Party, and which is manifested every year in the Budgets Act: there is a permanent absence of a strategic project for the country and for everyone and each of the productive sectors about which he says he wants to act; it comes from a false and very partial diagnosis of the sectors about which he intends to act; and when for bloody situations there are lines of action, they have so little economic support that they result in smoke, propaganda or fireworks. Here, too, the Galician Land Structure Improvement Bill is not part of a diagnosis of the present situation of agriculture and the causes of the decline in recent decades in which the PP ruled the Union with its two brief breaths into the country. A condemned farm since the three parties of the 78 regime – Popular Party, Socialist Party and Communist Party – came upon and defended an entry into the common market in ruinous conditions for our farming. The peasants and farmers were right when they shouted, "European Common Market, ruin of the Greek people," in the mobilizations of the 1980s and 1990s. The common market has assumed, yes!, to integrate almost a monopoly of food into European multinationals. Dozens of thousands of agricultural holdings disappeared because peasants were literally driven out by dairy quotas. The abandonment of the countryside did not fall from the sky, nor was it the fruit of the trawling of a fiery industry or trade as it happened in other latitudes. The increase in fires is not a consequence of any curse either. The aging of the rural population, too. And without being aware of the causes that brought us to this situation of true social, ecological and economic urgency of the Galician agriturismo, we can hardly remedy anything. I am stopped at the liquidation of the dairy sector because of the qualitative importance and because we are seeing the situation in which it remains worse. The policies of the Union are oriented in the last twenty-five years to conceal the liquidation of the dairy sector and agriculture, with modernization policies that have resulted only in the concentration of production on a small number of insufficient land-based farms and increasingly dependent on the purchase of food for livestock. Besides, they had to commit themselves to buy quota, and now they feel logically cheated and in many cases at risk of disappearance. At good hours green sleeves with the improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure for many sheep and sheep! First, they liquidated the little ones, not modern ones, and now they let those who have modernized themselves die, following the leadership of the People's Party. In the distribution of direct aid and rural development, contrary to the triumphal tone of the Government of the United States, there are worrying objectives for Galicia. Galicia is charging only 3% of the direct CAP aid to Spain, when it is around 6% of agricultural production and between 8% and 9% of farms and agricultural employment. If in the previous period of the CAP, the Galician Rural Development Programme has counted 1,500 million euros, in the period 2014-2020, according to the information of the Union itself, it will have 1,187 million euros, more than 300 million falls, which is the same: 21% less. So farmers and farmers, farmers and farmers have done their homework, but now they are faced with problems that do not depend on them, such as the problem of access to land to have a territorial base that allows them to reduce the purchase of thought. The end of the dairy quota endangers current farms, which a responsible government would have to support, and opens up the opportunity to recover small farms that can be a source of self-employment for people expelled from other sectors due to the economic crisis. The professor who holds the Department of Applied Economics of the University of Santiago de Compostela, Edelmiro López Iglesias, regarding this problem, says that Galicia needs "to make less dependent holdings of food for cattle and more based on forage production, and that means putting her teeth on the problem of land. Consolidate a transformation industry in Galicia and organize the relationship in the chain of production between gourds, industries and distribution chains that today govern the law of the jungle." We need to think about the improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure within a strategic plan for agriculture, and not make a law to kill the active partial concentrations and try to raise funds by hardening the sanctioning regime. If we think that agriculture must, first of all, be the main source of food for our citizens, then it's when it makes sense to talk about recovering useful agricultural land, but it also requires a Greek agroindustrial sector and not the flaying of dairy food. Today we have a powerful dairy sector in production, with farms that are viable in the medium and long term in the European Union, but we have a milk industry in Galicia that is usually weak, and that of German capital even more. Galicia produces 40% of state milk, the dairy industry located in Galicia does not reach 10% in terms of employment and added value on the state set, and that of German capital is still in the third part. That is, by producing 40% of state milk, the German capital industry accounts for 3% of the state. And if there isn't an industry that completes the productive chain, the German sector will remain vulnerable. It's about the marketing of short circuits, and all that's known and you in the People's Party have often seen without ever listening. When the German agriturismo becomes the main source of food, many of the ecological dangers such as fires will decrease, the rural population will recover, the trade of the villages will be a key sector for sustainable economic recovery. In addition, the text of the bill misses the most important, which is tax incentives. It would also regulate the protection of the rights of landowners, and in many cases they are properties of emigrants or children and grandchildren of emigrants, of whom the PP remembers only to bring a bunch of votes every four years. And if it's not possible to locate the owners, let those lands pass to the parishes. I therefore maintain the amendments to the draft legislation on land-based land-based improvement in Galicia, and I regret that Galicia today loses the great opportunity to reach a parliamentary agreement that would provide for the recovery of the Greek agricultural sector and the creation of a Galician agri-food industry. Amendment 1 seeks to give priority to family farms, cooperative forms and communal property, as I consider it essential to establish rural populations, ensure quality food production and improve territorial cohesion. I understand that the People's Party's refusal to accept this amendment is a consequence of its commitment to hand over our agriculture to multinationals in the sector, so that they continue to exploit our farmers and farmers. The wording of Article 1 simply speaks of prioritizing family holdings, cooperative forms and communal property, in order to achieve the general objectives set out in Article 2. In Article 2, my amendment seeks to declare that the managing entity will be the parish in cases of land without owners, because the lands are not of the Town Councils or of the Union, the lands are of the neighbours and neighbors of the parish. Paragraph 4 would modify the wording of the way in which it collects that "The real estates of the common mass which the managing entity of the Bank of Lands qualifies as fit for its purposes shall become the title of the parish or parishes in the proportion of lands close to it." Amendments 3 and 4 seek to remove in Article 56(4) and 57(6) the definition of access to specific aids for the registration of real estate. The text of the bill speaks of whether these will be the case, without clarifying when the case will be or when it will not be the case. An indefinition which, in addition to being based on the lack of transparency in the performance of the Administration, creates legal insecurity and defence in order to demand its establishment or application. And the same is true in relation to Amendment No 5 of Article 58.1, which eliminates the inconcretion that a special process of partial restructuring may be promoted, or is promoted or not promoted. We are talking about the consequences of the execution of a public work or the exploitation of a miner knife and how to mitigate the harmful effects on the structure of the agricultural holdings in the affected area. Therefore, I believe that whenever agricultural holdings are affected by public works or mining, they should be restructured if they so request – as set out in Amendment No 6 – at least 50 per cent of the persons holding agricultural holdings listed in the different official registers and active in the area directly affected by them. Amendment 7 seeks to ensure that prior to the occupation of the land the project promoter and execution will present the financial commitment to ensure that the costs of partial restructuring are sufficiently paid. It is not enough that there is a financial commitment, but it must ensure cost coverage. No promoter should be able to initiate the execution of a work without the full financial guarantee to cover all the costs arising from that action. Therefore, it is not understood that it is the Union which insists on not being a guarantor. The only explanation that may have this attitude is not to want to harm business interests other than Galicia and allies, therefore, to the rural Galician and the development of it. He denies the Government itself, but I would like an explanation, because it seems incredible to me that he is not guaranteed in the restructuring of the land and that he is not required that the guarantee be sufficient for this function, it's an unusual thing. Amendment 9 also influences the exposure of reasons and is because it is not understood how it was refused to include the need to implement instruments so that agriculture recovers the strategic function of producing quality and sufficient food for citizenship. Here is the only explanation that can be found again be the interests of large companies producing and distributing. No government that wishes to govern its country denies the possibility that its farm will provide food of sufficient quality to meet the needs of its people. I believe that only the Galician Union, ruled by the People's Party, is capable of not accepting such an amendment. In the face of the scale of the task, its national transcendence and its impact on future generations proposed Amendment No 9 with the technical support of universities, supplemented with that of farmers and farmers, to achieve a strategic plan for rural with the broadest political and social consensus possible. But the PP, in his pride, also rejected this possibility, the only option to save our field. They don't listen to opposition, they don't listen to peasants and peasants, and they also refuse to rely on the views of universities. A total lack of sense of government for our country, something that I regret and an opportunity, of course, lost. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u19	For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs Terixa Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor for the Rural Environment, any law in this country that intends to act on the territorial basis and have some kind of positive effect on the rural environment and on the economy in rural areas should primarily start from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block of an analysis of the main problems we have right now in the rural environment. And I, if I may allow you, ladies and gentlemen, would like to put three aspects in this area: in Galicia we had about – according to the agricultural census in the last data I had access – around eighty thousand farms in our country; we have a loss of farms at an average rate of 3.6% per year; we have a useful agricultural area in progressive abandonment, of the lowest percentage not only of the Spanish State but of the European Union, and in the last decade since there are data has lost 7.05 per cent of useful agricultural area, i.e., area suitable to be grown to produce food and that is in state of abandonment. At the same time, in our country agricultural holdings are those that have the least agricultural area at their disposal, an average of 8.15 hectares of useful agricultural surface, facing, for example, Cantabria, where they have 24,48; compared to the average of the Spanish State, which is above 25 hectares; or, for example, against figures like France, almost 54, or Denmark, 63 hectares. And all of this is the problems that shape a situation in our rural environment characterized by demographic loss, demographic ageing, the loss of economic dynamism, because exploitation disappears. And in view of that, we have another problem that has strictly to do with the setting up of property in rural areas, with its fragmentation, and that is a situation that is motivated because in our country there are about 600,000 cadastral landowners in our country. Well, in a normal country, with a normal government, a law called "modification of the agricultural structure" in our country should be something more than a law that will affect one of all these aspects and problems that I have just reported. About the only thing that involves this law is about the fragmentation of the property, for the only thing that serves this law is where we had one owner or one owner with ten plots we ended up having one owner or one owner with that clustered surface on one or two plots but with the same amount of surface. And, above all, with this policy, of course, one will not be able to affect one of the most important aspects from our point of view, in addition to the fragmentation of property, which is to increase the useful agrarian surface that is used – worth redundancy – because the problem we have in this country is that we have a clear retreat from the useful agrarian surface. And, of course, from our point of view that should be considered practically a misunderstanding. A country like Galicia cannot afford the luxury of having a useful agricultural area with the ability to produce, with the ability to generate wealth and generate absolutely abandoned employment, and take absolutely no action to reverse that situation. And this law, Counsellor, should be one more link within a global policy to deal with this situation, to face a situation that would allow as much land as possible to be incorporated into agricultural production and to provide holdings as much land as possible. It is frustrating for me to come to this forum today to debate this law because, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for this law since April 2009. I remember that in Mr Núñez Feijóo's first investment debate one of the commitments he made was the adoption of a law that produces a real change in the agricultural structures of our country. Since 2009, debate on the state of the nation after debate on the state of the nation, in the next investment debate, in all budget debates in this House, was committed by the Government of Greece to dealing with this situation that we have just described, a law that has put an end to or has contributed to putting an end to that situation. And what do we have instead of a real Law on the modification of agricultural structures? Honestly, the only thing we have – and you have to recognise it this way is the People's Party – is a Law to amend the Law on Partial Concentrations. As much as we try to give the articulate of the bill that is going to be passed today in this Parliament, I find no measure that can be truly novel to dynamize the market on earth or mobilize the land in our country. The only thing I find is a law that makes a lift to the previous Particulate Merger Act. A lift in the sense of trying to reduce the deadlines for the execution of the partial concentrations, which, of course, we all agreed that it was completely disproportionate and even stopped fulfilling its task by the deadlines for the execution of the partial concentrations. But we also say at the same time, and I recognize that, in fact, through this law measures are established to reduce deadlines, that if no more personal means and more resources are put to the service of partial mergers, of course, as much as we have reduced procedures in this new bill, we will not be able to achieve the objective of relieving the processing of partial merger projects. We believe, Counsellor, that this bill that is going to be passed here today should be complementary to other legal instruments that already exist in this country, such as the Land Bank, that you are still absolutely hibernate. It should be complementary to other instruments to act on forest property, which you are engaged in as the only way in forestry development societies, which have more than countered their most unrepeasurable failure, but you are still not rectified in that regard. And this should be the third step of these instruments to avoid the continuous and permanent loss of assets working in our primary sector, with the consequence of demographic, economic and social developments that this causes in rural areas; it should be a tool to increase the useful agricultural area available to farmers and, of course, also to contribute to reducing the productive costs of those farms, which are now more needed than ever to save costs. Therefore, Counsellor, as we said in the whole debate, we believe that if a law really intended to be novitiate there were many other instruments that could be introduced so that there really would be some positive change. We also regret from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that of the ninety amendments that we tabled to this bill with an absolutely constructive spirit, such as proof that most of the amendments we make are neither of suppression nor of substitution but of addition, we intend to improve by adding new methods, new processes of land mobility in our country, and it has not been accepted, ladies and gentlemen, nor a single amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, nor even an attempt to compromise on any of the amendments made by the Galician Nationalist Block. Which demonstrates two things, Counsellor and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: their intolerance, their inability to dialogue, and above all their inability to think and to see that there are other formulas to address the problems of this country that have been being tested for the past sixty years and which have caused the situation we currently have. I do not understand why we cannot accept amendments that we made – I insist – as an addition, such as number 2 or number 3, which intended to define exactly what is agricultural area; number 4 which intended to define what is forest zone, from the point of view of the partial mergers and the reorganization of the property; which intended, for example, as Amendment number 7, to define polygonation in forest zone, because not everything will have to be concentration. I would like someone to explain to me the usefulness of the forest land concentrations that can, at most, give rise to a 20,000 square meters forest exploitation, two acres, or even ten acres, if all of us are clear that this is not profitable from the point of view of exploitation so that the forest land could be profitable. You did not accept, for example, Amendment No 9, which was also an addition, which did not intend to change anything that you had already drafted from the law, but simply intended to complement with other formulas what was established in that law, for example, the definition of agricultural concentration polygons. Or number 10, which was intended to define the association agrarian polygons. Finally, Madam Counsellor, other forms of reorganisation of property, which do not necessarily happen because of the change in ownership of holdings. Because, of course, as the only management of the forest property we intend to do in this country necessarily involves the change of ownership of agricultural lands, we will not be able to move forward. And or we explore new routes, which have certainly already been done on an experimental basis in this country and with more than positive results, with results that have even been put in value by FAO and copied by other countries, as I have just told you, the polygons of common use of land by their owners, as we do not explore these new routes, we will continue as we have so far, investing in large amounts of money in partial concentrations to not end up advancing enough in that area. We also do not understand how, for example, another amendment, such as the 16, which was also an addition, could not be accepted, in which it was intended to establish other objectives to comply with a true law of reorganization of property, as it is because in the case of agrarian polygons of association concentrate the plots on a single predicate of substitution of ownership of a society. Or objective in the case of forest areas which are the object of redistribution, to limit polygons which permit joint exploitation without necessarily modifying the pre-existing plot. Nor do we understand why other amendments were not accepted through which we wanted to define clearly what is the agricultural soil of forest use. Because one problem we have in this country, Counselor, is that we have a lot of forest land, very poorly managed, very little agricultural area, and that the forest surface is becoming more and more agrarian surface. And unfortunately, it's not to produce more from a forest point of view, but to have more and more of the territory abandoned and ruined. And we also presented amendments that we wanted to clearly delineate those uses and prevent it from being able to continue using the surface of agricultural aptitude for forestry tasks, because – I insist – we already have a lot of forest surface and so we don't know very well what to do with it, because otherwise we wouldn't have abandoned it. Finally, I could report on this until the ninety amendments made by this parliamentary group. I insist: most of them adding, that most of them the only thing they wanted – and we were, of course, open to any kind of negotiation – was to introduce new mechanisms into this bill so that really, ladies and gentlemen, if you could call it a law to modify Galicia's agricultural structure. Because with the current content, this – if allowed and I say it with all due respect – is unique and exclusively a law of modification of the current Particulate Merger Act. And we believe that reality is so tense that it shows us that the unique and exclusively path of the partial concentration with a little lift that is made to it in this bill has shown its most absolute failure in the rearrangement of our agrarian surface and has shown the most absolute failure in the use and incorporation of more agrarian surface to production. So since the Galician Nationalist Block, regretting that this is, of course, a missed opportunity, we have to vote negatively for the adoption of this bill. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u21	For the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mr. Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u22	Well, good morning. Good morning, Counselor. You know I have nothing personal against you, but maybe what I'm saying is a bit politically hard, but only politically. I believe that this – we have said in the debate of the whole – is a more distracting maneuver of a government that does not show vital constants. I think you as a government are already past, the only thing missing is to confirm it in the elections. If it is not confirmed, they will continue to be past and this country will remain in the past, in the politics of the past. But you're making this legislation too long. Because you guys didn't even have a start in this legislation, they didn't have a country project, they didn't. You seem to have wanted to avoid wear doing nothing, having no ideas and not risking, not trying to play the guy politically for this country. Because this question of what we're talking about is that it's a country project that it's impossible to take forward only with the knee of a political party, whether it's the People's Party or another. And you leave with a very important handicap to meet this country, which was your attitude when the two-party government tried to put the cat's cockroach on these structural issues. And you, in the face of a transcendental issue for this country, when you were in the opposition, used it for electoralist purposes to to torpedo a serious, but serious, attempt to solve structural problems that demonstrate the data that is destroying the development of this country. And they start with that lack of seriousness as a political party to face as serious issues as these. The structural reality of the territory of rural Galicia – the data was presented by the spokeswoman of the Nationalist Block of Galicia –: There is a high, very large number of landowners, 1,600,000 land catastral holders in rural areas; small size of plots, fragmentation due to historical processes that are neither good nor bad for us. It's not good or bad if there's a project for this country, because part of a reality of this country, not a reality of Castile-The Mancha. The continuous and drastic loss of the useful agricultural surface – I will not give you any data – in two decades, from 1985 to 2005, nearly one hundred and fifty thousand hectares have been lost. But it is that in the 2007-2013 period this process is accelerated, far from having a turning point that marks that. Even though farms are shut down at a very high rate, there are no policies, no resources for the land that leaves such holdings to be absorbed by the remaining ones, without coming to appreciate what this closure means. This loss of useful agricultural area is already sufficiently studied, due to urban pressure, forest pressure and abandonment itself due to the lack of vitality of many rural areas and the lack of rural dynamization policies; abandonment of the agricultural area and abandonment of the forest area. We also have to say once again that Galicia does not produce enough food to self-supply. This doesn't mean that caricature that we don't want imports and exports, it means that the Galician balance has a deficit of many hundreds of millions of euros. We are not able to produce in a country that is precisely not Greenland. The main Greek agricultural sector, the dairy sector, which most contributes to the final agricultural production, is paved in its competitiveness precisely by this question of structure and lack of territorial base, is a handicap if you look at where you look, it's a handicap. And, of course, this, Counselor, is not the fault of the greedy. Failure of land management policies. The only urban policy in this country was speculation. It is an absolute failure of land management policies; it is a failure, of course, attributable to the governments that have been most of the time in power. Absence of country project. There has never been a serious debate on this issue in society. Beyond the individual interests, which are very legitimate, but which should not be the only ones, it's made the whole land-based legislation, even if it had announced very well-intentioned objectives, it was totally inefficient. In general plans there is only an urban approach to these plans, which does not take into account, in any case, the agronomic attitudes of the soil or the future of agriculture in this country. There is confusion in the spatial planning elements and total implementation of the territorial management guidelines, of the coastal management plan, of all things. There's been a confusion, a tide of legislation that makes these instruments totally useless. The incidence of this lack of management and abandonment in the existence of forest fires, even though you say that the only problem with fires is that there's someone who sets it on fire, no. Abandonment and aging and lack of vitality in many rural areas. The experts, all right-wing and left-wing, say that, of course, abandonment is also due to the fact that in many areas of this country there is aging of the population in general, and ageing of the agrarian population confirmed by the data of the National Institute of Statistics, that I've already repeated them many times, but I'm going to repeat it, because we have fewer times here than you have to go out in the press, to see if ever it remains: 60% of the agrarian population in 2013 was 60 or more years old, and only 4.68% were under 40. Does this have anything to do with the abandonment of the land? Well, we think so. And then a legal and fiscal framework of property that protects the owner without putting limitations on use. And fruit of that might be that if you make a perfect concentration law, technically there are technicians in the board who are very qualified to make it much better than me. But you can do very well and it may happen as it was a few years ago, that a plotial concentration of 2,000 hectares was made, because it burns in the province of Ourense, because it is totally abandoned. So that's an example of how we think this has only a solution from an integral approach, from an integral approach to the problem: taking into account the land management policy; urban policy, taking into account within these policies something more than urbanization; defining the coexistence between agriculture and forest. And defined, of course, from where it marks something that he likes to tell Mr. Rajoy, which is the common sense, that in this country, not as the Mountain Law says, that the goal is to increase the forest surface, the priority for this country is to improve the quality of the forest surface and slow the advance of the forest surface. In the preamble to the Mountain Law, one of the objectives is to create even more forest surface. That's how bad we're going. Policies for the dynamisation and revitalization of rural areas. More important than a perfect law of partial concentration like this, or how you aspire to be this. Much more important than there are young people who stay in the countryside, and there are examples, because you always come here and say this happens all over Europe. No, look, we have a debate after a motion about nature parks and protected spaces, and I've been looking at protected mountain spaces in the Basque Country, where it progressively increases population over the last twenty years in those places. Obviously, because there natural parks have budgets. There forest owners who have limitations to use have direct and indirect compensation. That's where you talk to the people who live there. There you don't care about models other than yourself, but your own models, because for that, we who are nationalists don't because we're mystics, we do it to improve people's quality of life. And having a own model for a country is not just kissing a flag, but, of course, having no complex to make your own projects. And in the Basque Country they're doing their own projects designed for that country, and not here. Here too, we will have to talk about diversification and development of new sectors, with potential as well, and tax and legal policies of limitation of use. And that's where we all have to offer, of course, to say, yes, private property yes, but property has a social function too, which we have to define as society. Do you understand? Those are the limitations to the use we want to make. And not as you said when the Land Bank and the Land Mobility Act were created: that communism comes. That's not communism, it's the law of the jungle. Do we each do what we want in our territory? No, that's not our conception. Of course, to do this, we need to get together and have a serious and honest debate; which you didn't allow, so I talked about the bipartisan, etc. An integral hanger, with instruments that respond to a reality of 2015. So what we can't be promised is a star measure only, to publish a law in the CEO when we haven't run out of previous regulations. The earlier party concentration law clearly needs improvements, and this law offers some improvements with respect to the previous one. But it's basically the star measurements we're told were already in the previous law and they never applied. There were sanctions for when land was abandoned and not applied. Of course, we also support that it cannot be that the only policies are sanctions, when the Administration disregards all the rest of the functions. But there were, but they didn't apply. So, what was going on? Which, of course, I think it was in Melón where there was this concentrated land, the Administration cannot exist from an 80-year-old lord, when he has children and grandchildren emigrants, who have perfectly peeled the read or worked it; he cannot exist from it, and then it is not obvious that it is not logical to sanction. But what we have to do is, of course, keep sanctions and make a land where millions of euros have been invested in concentrating on people who work in it, who are working on it. Is it that hard? Because I don't think that's a match. It's true that farms disappear in Europe, but the land is being worked. There are fewer or more farms, the territory is occupied and ordered in the rest of Europe. It's all invented. We therefore believe that we do not need a perfect law, although it is not too much; of course, what we need is a plan, a country plan, for compliance with the regulations, so that there are sufficient resources to implement it, economic resources, human resources and coordination between the various instruments that are being approved. In this legislation – I have spoken to you – the Land Law is contradictory with the objectives that this law seeks. The Law of the soil allows segregation on less surface of the plots, allows again urbanization in rustic soil, protects the rustic soil, and, instead, we are trying to improve the agrarian structure. It seems they're static compartments that don't talk to each other, that don't have a project in common. The Law of the Land, the Law of the Mountains... how can it be said when everyone agrees that one of the competitions of the agrarian surface is the forest surface, to put in the Law of the Mountains, in the preamble, that one of the objectives is to increase the surface? Well, we don't think it's very logical. So without that integral approach, we think this is certainly distractions. It'll be in the press today that a Law of improvement of the agricultural structure is passed, but the instruments are not put in place for it to even apply. That's why we, within our amendments too, disciplinely – I don't know whether or not we're right, maybe we're too little, we work, we make amendments and with good will, and that even if we've accepted several; issues that were to be given. So you can say later that the opposition comes here just saying no. We wanted the incorporation projects to be taken into account within the compound to request an area of reorganization or concentration, I don't know...; that if we had taken into account the resources, the sufficient resources to cope with any process and that doesn't happen like in the partial concentration processes, that are dilated over time because there are no budgetary resources. It seems important to us. In the economic memory of the law reduce budgets with respect to previous years, so how do you intend to carry out this resource? It's obvious that as you see it's a law that won't be useful, for it no longer places budget. Then also a concrete but very important question. We believe that rural core soils must be ordered with urban instruments. That's right, that they also take their nature into account. But it can't be that a law is used later to make urbanism in the face of the inefficiency of real urbanism. So we believe that the Environmental and Infrastructure Council has something to say in the management of rural core soils. And if you don't have to define them differently, but you can't do urban politics with agricultural policy instruments. Then we also proposed the entry of environmental groups and heritage conservation. Yes, sir, of course it is. It's just that from the integral approach we also have to take into account that this country will also have to have agrarian activity, it will have to preserve the landscape, it will have to preserve its architectural elements and its biodiversity. And also a law that serves the lands that today have no activity or prospects for activity, but that do have an agronomic attitude and that must be preserved, because it is a good that is not renewable, a good that must be preserved. And then we think that the forest concentration processes here don't have to be either. We believe that this law is not the place for forest structuring processes. That's why we also asked to separate within our amendments. So we're going to reject this law, because it's not what we're sold, it's not the solution, and we don't want to take part in this policy to appear, but we want efficient solutions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u23	Mr García García García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. For the truth is that I see here little ceremony for after six years Mr Feijóo in every speech comes repeating that this was a priority theme for this country. I don't know if the Galician TV is retransmitting or is going to broadcast the cut right now, but that's little ceremony, surely with reason, because, indeed, for this trip there was no need for so much effort. But, well, today we have concluded in this Parliament the process of this law, a pretentious law in its name: Law of improvement of the land structure of Galicia. It is pretentious because, obviously, the title, following that maxim of President Feijóo that what is needed is always a good story, it is extremely attractive. No one would think it would be denied when he sees the title to consider this text not as necessary but as indispensable. I myself said, of course, how did we not happen before, how did we not do it before, how will a law not be made to improve the territorial structure of Galicia's agricultural holdings? In fact, what have we been in these thirty years to not do this? But the problem comes after, which is when we start looking at how. And there we clearly passed from that pretension holder of the initial account to disappointment, because we started to read and see that all alone, everything is something that was already legislated, everything is repeated, everything was already collected in other laws, other rules, other organisms. And, therefore, we are overwhelmed by that immediate feeling of dja vu and that disappointing, disheartening feeling that, in fact, there was only one account, there was only the story. Very nice, but it's a story. These six years, what has been reported. In the intervention to take into account this law this spokesman had already made that little introduction, and not by filling out the minutes, nor by making literary appointments as does any fellow of mine, but by that mania that we have some, and very little practiced by this government, to do a... to know if we are facing a problem, to have a diagnosis of the problem. This government never diagnoses any problems, and then gives the treatment as doctors would say; first, we do the diagnosis and then we do the treatment. And by applying that medical symbol, what would happen in this situation is that a patient has entered us with very damaged vital constants, almost in cardiorespiratory arrest and the treatment that this government gives him is a simple aspirin, sorry, acetylsalicylic acid, because it's generic. At best, that's what this government is doing with this problem. The data was said here, we already said... the problem of this main law is what happens with all this government: it doesn't talk about people, it doesn't talk about people. The whole law doesn't speak for anything about people. He's talking about holders, about lands, about... It doesn't take into account the people who live there, and for those who in theory should be made the law. So, obviously that little detail, that little detail of talking about people and being focused on people, because we're going wrong. But, of course, we're talking about 1.6 million headlines, 60% of the population -- we say -- is owner, but not person, uh!, owner; it has nothing to do with the people who live there. One 1.7 hectares per owner and 7,7 plots per owner. So we've also said it here, it's remembered and has a lot to do with historical processes. And one thing that I put in value, and I think this had its meaning at the time. I mean, it wasn't like we were tambourines then; it made sense that it was. Maybe it made sense that it was like that, just like it doesn't have it now. And what happens is that the problem is that we didn't know how to adapt to that new situation. But that was for something, it wasn't that they were cut, it was for something, and in that eminently rural society exploitation had a livelihood and therefore had to be diversified, because it was the real economy. There had to be everything and therefore they had to be the plots distributed across all the territories because it was a social support, and it's crucial that it was. The reality really changed in the 20th century. The processes of transformation operated have brought the population down, the number of farms decreased, the professionalization of farms, the very significant increase in profitability, but we still have a problem. I mean, all of this has improved; however, those advances suffered by our exploits on earth were not able to overcome them. And I also said in the introduction – and we have to take it – we weren't who because we didn't want to. In other words, other transformations have been made in this country, transformations have been made into huge infrastructures, other kinds of transformations have been made, some resources have been invested to make other kinds of transformations, and here it is not done because it is not wanted, and because you who ruled thirty years did not want. Not because the Greeks have a literary sense of attachment to the earth, that too, but that's not why. The reason is basically because there was no political impulse to approach it and to do it. It is more – as Mr. Sánchez said – when someone tried to do it you boycotted it; you boycotted it and used it politically. And that's the reality. We also said it was false that argument beyond that it is true in certain territories that it was not – and Mr. Sánchez gave some data that was also given in the previous debate – those 150,000 hectares that were lost; there were 150,000 planted, but they were not symmetrical. I mean, it wasn't that I'd absorbed the forest world that 150,000, but more than half of them were on land. So that equation isn't that simple, it's not that we've totally changed our culture; which has basically been abandoned. And we have perfectly abandoned concentrated land throughout this country. By the way, when this law comes into force the next day, I'll put two cases in the commission, when you publish it and, therefore, you're already aware of this law: One, where I will clearly denounce the polygon and plot with eucalyptus plantations next to the houses on agricultural land; with polygon and plot I will denounce it. What are you going to do with the law? We'll see. And two, with polygons and tremendous plots of land Bank property in July totally abandoned to the mountains, gestures and toxos. What are you going to do with the law? Nothing. So the main problems that people continue to have, not the headlines, not the temples, nor do I know that, no, the people who live in those areas, will continue to have them with this law. And we'll prove that, indeed, the story was very good, but that the law will not ultimately serve to solve people's problems. Nor was it to be obvious, Counselor, that all of this happened because, indeed, there was also an idea established – I say in that diagnosis because, if it is not difficult to get to treatment afterwards – a generalized idea, and that this government also had, that, in fact, this of the earth was secondary. There were some technological measures, and it is true that it has advanced in that sense, and therefore it has been considered that the territorial basis for the development of agricultural holdings was a secondary or tertiary issue. I mean, I didn't have to stop the development of our farms that had more or less land. But, indeed, once we've done all this wrong, today I think we've seen production costs, through Community agricultural policy, we've also seen territorial management, because it seems that, except for you, everyone concludes that managing the territory of this country via budget check for the rental of helicopters and quadrills costs four times more than helping keep people there working and therefore doing that work permanently. And I say that almost everyone has come to that conclusion except for you, that they keep doing it and they keep propitiating that model. But I repeat: it seems that we all agree, and I say it seems, and in fact the president has been talking about this for seven years in his speeches, in which, in fact, we have something to do with land mobility. And to fight it and to fight the problem, because this is another of the fundamental aspects, we have to fight the problem. I mean, we agree that the equation is that there are fewer farms, so there's more land available, but the same farms have less and less useful agricultural area, the equation seems to be that by pure market law and by nature's sciences it didn't work, or it doesn't work. So, do the public authorities, the Galician Union and the governments have to do something to make that so? Well, it looks like it does, too, because I repeat that by themselves it doesn't seem to be done. And for this we have two mechanisms: legislation and political measures. From the legislation it has already been said here: Law of partial concentration, Law of land mobility, Law of mountains, the Bank of Earth. From the political measures of impulse, Madam Counsellor, none, quite the contrary. When we had to make some decision that had given some oxygen so that the farms would not disappear and that small farms would not disappear, in addition, in certain areas that were strategic, I'm talking to you about the agri-food aid, I'm talking about the aid to indigenous races, I'm talking about any way of targeting some people – we're going back to the people – who live in a certain area, and it's very important that they continue to live there and they're running a certain territory, you're the ones who did it was to hurt them. Therefore, no impulse measures. In the budgets since Mr Feijóo is president, 70 million reductions for such programs. While Mr. Feijóo listed speech after speech that the problem of this country was the area of agricultural holdings, the unproductive land mobility programme, I, who are almost illiterate, read and say: this is the program of this, isn't it? I mean, when I read, unproductive land mobility program, I say: this is the theme; I say this is the important thing. Well, in 2012, you had 5 million when you arrived, all these 1.5 years. That's as long as the beans were cocoa every day that this was the problem of this country. That, therefore, is the true intention and the real political initiative that you have demonstrated these years. And what are you going to do about it? For, indeed, it has already been said here: about the partial concentrations, about a certain aspect, which also only affects – as has already been noted here – the title. We can also make a history and a timeline of how the partial concentrations of this country were made, as an urbanizing element, by decreeing partial concentrations in all municipalities, because all mayors had to have three or four open concentrations, and how nothing was costed were opened partial concentrations with an average duration of between fifteen and twenty years for each partial concentration. The results are that we have perfectly concentrated partial concentrations, perfectly accessible, but perfectly abandoned. And you say, well, in all this, what are we going to do? Well just shorten the partial concentration process. Anything? Yes. But what really lengthened the process was the money we dedicated to it, it wasn't just one legislative problem, which would probably get better, it was a problem of economic allocation. Yes, they will continue to do wherever the Government wants it to be, they will continue to decree when the Government wants it to be decreed, they will be done the way the Government wants to continue to do it. Therefore, expectations that the thing will improve after the precedents, Counselor, neither will it. We, in spite of that, mean, that the text was impossible, and therefore we from the first moment said that this text did not respond to the objectives it was pursuing, we are going to vote against, of course, but despite that it is true that we made amendments, twenty-five amendments, of which two or three subjects were even traded, which were smaller themes, but once you decide to choose there we believe that they bring something. And our amendments revolve in three aspects, – I repeat – in the context of the text that was there, which we think for nothing will solve this problem. But we couldn't even improve on these three aspects: One, trying to get the law to force successive governments, had an obligation, i.e., that the law had ceased to be a voluntary and political decision of the government of turn. That is to say, in this country we will be able to decide clearly where we are going to make the partial mergers and that this was in a mandatory way and that it would be out of government decisions. To try to involve those decision-making bodies beyond the government itself, in cases also how agricultural organizations can be, which I think is essential for us. And replacing – most of our amendments is a basic thing – to replace the conditionals, that is, where it says, "can be done" that puts on: "will be done"; where it says, "can be decided", that it says, "deceased"; where it says, "can be determined", that it says, "will be determined." That's most of our amendments. Because indeed, the law beyond the kindness that I have obviously a partial concentration today cannot last twenty-five years like in the 1970s, because at least we have SIXPAC, not much more, but SIXPAC we have. I mean, we have certain technological measures that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u25	Go finish, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u26	...then it won't serve much more. And finished, Counselor. With €300,000 – and I repeat that now is no longer an electoral campaign – the Lugo Deputy has mobilized 800 hectares. He mobilized for people, with names and names, not for broaching, for cultivation, and acquired these people 800 hectares more than they had. It's true you don't have the title of property, it's true they're not yours, but they're working in the province 800 hectares more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u27	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u28	...with €300,000. With the 6.5 million you invest in helicopters year after year, make a rule of three simple and direct, without any law, without any legislative change and without absolutely changing the regulation we have for nothing. It's a matter of political will and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u29	Mr. Garcia, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u30	...it's true that the political will really turns it into law that can only be converted by citizens when they vote every four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u31	For the People's Parliamentary Group Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies. Counsellor, we greet you and the members of the departments that accompany you today in the public. And we're also going to greet Mr. Beiras because we see that he's interested in the debate, but the pressure is lower, I can breathe, because we have a person here that throughout history could tell us how much has changed, how much has changed the reality of the structure of the land in rural. But I don't think he's really interested in what we mean by the People's Party. You were talking about the Roll of the People's Party; indeed, the Roll passes through the fruit of the Phoenician and the consensus of both political forces that I will now appoint. We're done today, ladies and gentlemen, the processing of a necessary and demanded bill, which comes to replace and improve standards for several decades with evas to fit the current reality of Galicia. It is not a text as was said in previous debates, and it has been repeated today, which is now to amend the current Law 10/1985, of partial concentration of Galicia, and its subsequent amendment. It's a new text that derogates those who are now in force and introduces remarkable novelties not only regulations but even concepts and philosophy. In previous debates arguments have been used since the opposition by underestimating and disqualifying the proposal and claiming that its application would not change anything, it would not be effective and could not meet the proposed objectives. Even from the Socialist Group it has been said that the logic would be to copy other communities; what they practice, ladies and gentlemen, when you have government responsibilities. We remember the drafts that were left in the drawers with proposals even in the Water Law and even in others that are being processed in this session. The truth is that Galician reality has changed in recent decades, while the peculiarities that define us, far from being a trap and trying to change them by copying others, must continue to improve with standards such as the current one, changing the constraints that persist, with a new concept of partial restructuring that exceeds the dimension and capacity of action of the current partial concentration, with more agile and shorter action procedures in time, betting on business groups or farms, favoring joint management of lands, Mrs. Paz, favoring the resizing through permuts and surface rearrangements in agrarian spaces. The available resources are also optimized, saving in the execution of works and taking advantage of existing pathways, and the rural core soils are included in the restructuring performance perimeter so that they can be ordered for agricultural purposes. Established – as I said – tax benefits for heirs who have no agricultural activity but who make their plots available to farms. Some groups have claimed that they are not prone to concentration of land, others that need to copy political actions from other regions – as I said before – or that new rules, plans and strategies are now needed to change the structure of rural areas. Ultimately, alternatives to all tastes, many of them contradictory to each other. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is most surprising is that the amendments to the text that are still in force today, and that take up this diversity of alternative opposition proposals, were supported by each other, contradicting the same position as each other. As we have been accustomed to it, the question is to reject the proposals of the Government or the People's Group and support each other. This is clearly evidence of who is not, and to the facts we refer. We have been able to consider amendments and incorporate them into the draft, and in some cases to propose text alternatives, which have also been accepted or taken into account. Transactions were proposed to the groups – Miss Peace, less to the BNG – and we considered that the attitude of our part has always been open and significant improvements have been incorporated. The BNG, ladies and gentlemen, has considered presenting an alternative text, which means a whole amendment for us. They used the draft of their authorship that remained in the drawers parked in 2009, draft that transcribes more than 80% of the current law, merely replacing the terms "partial concentration" with the terms "reform of the agricultural structure", which aims to add to practice all the articulated as amendments to the various articles, with the aggravating of having no interest in maintaining coherence, Mrs. Paz, the coherence of each of the articles, since on many occasions – as you have repeated here – do not replace or change but add them, or of course maintain consistency in the set of the resulting text. The result of this particular legislative technique is a mix, a meaningless mix, Mrs. Peace, that if we consider ourselves to be doubtful of its legal viability and even its own application. From the Joint Group, ladies and gentlemen, we have no consideration to do. Even – I think – walk, ladies and gentlemen, lost and very busy, and I don't think they'll find themselves in what remains of legislation. So, what can we say when considering your proposals? I think you're living in a virtual reality, a reality you don't know and what you really don't know... I don't think we've even been able to read the draft law object of the debate. From the Gaga de Left Alternative Group there was a spirit of consensus to consider a number of amendments and transactions, which allowed us to affirm that within the discrepancies in a fruitful and productive way agreements have been reached, as we demand, ladies and gentlemen, from society to political groups, the responsibility to understand us within the differences. Of the forty amendments submitted, we accepted nine and four transactions of alternative texts proposed by the Popular Group were incorporated. The Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, should point out the acceptance of three amendments, and of silence, Mr García. Not transactions, acceptances of three amendments, not only techniques, but really silence. And it could be further if the proposed transactions were considered. But while in one of them we were asking for the definition of a concept, it was not approached, only a simple interpretation or oral explanation of the concept itself, that when it does not remain, Your Honor, in writing may give rise to insecurity or legal indefinition. The same procedure was followed by a concept of the Gaga de Left Alternative, which if they had, if they had come up with a proposal and if they had been admitted. But what you can't do is leave it to possible interpretations, to futures. We understand that this is not rigorous in considering the proposed issues or transactions. And another, referred to – as you well said – by the presence of agricultural organizations in the composition of the zone councils, which has been attempted, Your Honor, with generosity of compromise, since an alternative text was proposed which you have continued to reject. We understand that the injured are not us, Your Honor, or the Government; indeed, in this case the injured will be the agricultural organizations. I think we're still in time to think about it and be able to incorporate the proposed transaction. Your Honor, inflexible, unremovable positions, and the lack of political generosity stem from a lack of agreement, which really undermines the representativeness of the groups that are intended, as in this case are the agricultural organizations. In short, agreements have been moved and amendments have been incorporated that improve the initial text, but not for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we are politically innocent, because here the opposition groups have all agreed to forward rejection of this text, this draft bill. I understand that today it was really manifested who passed the knee. Most of the approaches and forms of amendments have been able to take into account, they have been able to study generously and can be incorporated, but they oppose and criticize and not assess to their proper extent this bill because we understand that it is not part or necessity of a responsibility of opposition. [[Protests.]] In short, the work in the press and commission is a proposal that we today must applaud, for being a definitive norm and which together with the previous Land Mobility Act of 2010 and the 2012 Mountain Law of 2012, ladies and gentlemen, will remain as a foundation for a future work in the pursuit of common political objectives, although divergent in its achievement. I think all political forces are fighting. Because, ladies and gentlemen, they spoke today, and it's very difficult to break all the arguments that have been said here. But on the specific issue, and so on, you used Mrs. Paz – the nationalists of the BNG – very serious words, you talked about embezzlement, frustration, even... well, Mrs. Paz, I think you use demagogy in an interpretative way of reality to get to the ideological nationalist posture, but what you don't bring here are news, real alternatives. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As I said very well, his amendments cannot be taken into account. And you were talking about lifting, and you even recognized that the deadlines were reduced. Well, some more important and objective issues such as the previous debates have been put on the table as important news, but you again have to believe that the norm, that your reading has not produced fruit, because you despise anything the Government proposes. [[Murmurs.]] I am able to reject with arguments questions that really all technicians consider a great novelty, a great law for the future. But you're not, because as you say even with a little pride, if you allow me, as you said in committee, that you have, of course, technicians, certain more qualified people. I believe, Your Honor, that since humility we all struggle for the same, for the diagnosis and analysis that you have done here, and that no one can obvious, try to change it, with legislative normative tools, that will be the body, because you say that here, gentlemen, there is not enough paraphernalia for the Law of improvement of the territorial structure to bring citizens, neighbors and neighbors closer. Mr. Garcia, the paraphernalia is the one surrounding Mr. Besteiro when he takes his own TV, and they are able to come closer and sell. [[Murmurs.]] And he told Mr. Beers that he could be a witness of what they were doing before, and it was to go with checks for pastries, when I was very young and very young. Now these socialist gentlemen are doing the same thing in periods that coincide with pre-election periods. I am able to arrive with €300,000 and to go – I do not want to be misthinked – mobilising the land of those they consider... For that, the province of Lugo we have a potential land that thanks to Mr. Bester and the mobilized hectares because we are going to get our farms out of the middle of Greece as much. [[Murmurs.]] But I think that the useful agricultural area of the farms in areas where there is an agriculture and an active livestock are all producing, because the people of Greece, the neighbors and the neighbors, know it's profitable. And I think it was Mr. Sánchez that made reference to the fact that in the Mountain Law one of the objectives was to increase the forest land surface. Yes, Mr. Sánchez, you must stop getting up in toxins, gestas and woods, and you must have mountains managed, ordered and productive, with plantations and many diverse productions that can be obtained from the mountains. That's one of the great objectives of the Mountain Law, which together with the rest of the laws and current norms of the previous legislation come to lay the foundation. You were talking about resources, technical means, really budgets, and you were even talking about specific mobility programs. Ladies and gentlemen, as if nothing had been done in any other legislation or even in this. Look at specific data, data on partial concentrations from 2007 to 2009: total number of areas, 9.5; in legislations chaired from 2009 to 2014, 9.6. Total number of hectares, 7,233 from 2006 to 2009; total number of hectares, 7,858. Affected owners, 4,833; affected owners from 2010 to 2014, 5,039. Actually, investments can be smaller, they can, but efficiency is maximum, and they've been working, and they're working, Mr. Garcia. You intend to make it clear that current policies are not the right ones, but I think we can all contribute, and you from the opposition, to that fitness be improved, but we understand that with your amendments, with your twenty-five, I didn't want to qualify them as scarce, null, because changing a verb, a conditional for a mandatory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u33	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u34	...for he has his own. But, really, your alternative I think you should be more ambitious, just like this bill, which is ambitious for the yellow field, which is ambitious for the structure. And, Mr. Sánchez, here are the departments, and urbanistically it is contemplated and complementary, not contradictory in any case. Because before, when other parties had to leave their fingerprints, they weren't able to dare address the other wing of the Government so they could decide or influence the legislative techniques.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u36	I believe that something has changed and the rural Galician will change more with this new bill. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u37	Thank you very much. Round of the groups to be defined on the amendments kept by the others. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u38	Mrs. García Pacín, I never looked at the anti-democratic and anti-dialogue spirit of the People's Party better in my life. You went up here and gave us a real lesson in what should never be done in democracy. He called the demagogic opposition, which is dedicated to copying, which is out of reality, which came here to pass the knee to the People's Party, which will not be able to pass this law because the opposition will pass the knee. Indecent. Of course, an intervention that I would call indecent. But besides, this certainly has nothing to do with integration, with dialogue, with the search for a consensus; of course, for nothing. You have just shown the PP in all its essence. But, in addition, I've already been drawn to attention when I tell the Socialist Party that there have been few amendments. I suppose you understand that this bill is so bad that they had to introduce themselves so many more amendments, because if you didn't understand that you thought there were too many amendments to such a perfect law. You just said yourself that they're little for what they introduced us to. An agrarian policy based on a total lack of analysis of reality, a complete desire to seek global solutions. A non-existent agricultural policy, because there can't be an agricultural policy that doesn't speak, that doesn't take into account – as we have already said so many times, and I am on my side – a global view of what you want to do, how to dynamize agriculture, how to attract the agricultural population, how to settle it, how to have new people in our agriculture, how to have greater productivity, how to be able to fill the tasks that are not being covered because only older people are left in a really hard job like farming, and therefore how to stop the desertification of our agricultural land. It's interesting to talk to Industry to see how we can create in our rural a powerful Welsh industry related to agricultural activity, how we can produce quality foods and how these quality foods have to have a distribution chain, so that these foods get to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Because I don't know if you know that in this country it's practically impossible to buy native farm products, it's impossible. You can't buy Welsh fruit anywhere, you come all the way out. The only thing we can find, at least in Vigo, are the crickets; out of the crickets is that it's impossible to buy Greek products. But you don't care, they come here with patches that don't make any sense. And we see how the people who work in the field in Galicia end up giving away their products because they have no way of marketing them, when their quality is much higher. They don't admit the amendments to the opposition, but you don't have any commitment and enough democratic quality to talk about a law like this with whom you're going to suffer, who are the owners and the governors, with the eco-logical organizations. They don't listen to anyone. That's why they're alone, and that's why they're going to be more lonely, and that's why they're going to end up losing all government in the state, and specifically the Government of Galicia, by its pride, which ignores society and imposes its ideological criteria through the laws, which is for the only one who uses the laws, to impose ideology and a concept of country entirely beyond most of the situation. But it is also a law that continues to deprotect our rural and our agriculture of mining and public works, with an authentic – as the spokesman of the Socialist Party said – abuse of all the conditioners, whether or not it can be, whether it can be done or not, to leave entirely free hands to the Union of Galicia, to act or not act in accordance with interests that have nothing to do with the interests of agriculture or with the interests of farmers and farmers. A total separation and a totally impoverished concept of our country, of our needs, of the needs of our forest sector and of our agricultural sector. I will therefore support the amendments of the opposition. And I regret again that the People's Party in its sovereignty lets escape a unique opportunity to have a guaranteed future for our farm. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u39	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Garcia, I think we're going to have to ask Mrs. García Pacín to give us a course to see if we find a virtuous center, because you're too simple, I'm too complex, to see if the lady teaches us how to make amendments that are neither simple nor complex. Because, really, any excuse must be good enough not to want to assume that the text presented in this bill is a real failure. Look, I'll give you a couple more data, Mrs. Garcia Pacín. Between 1982 and 2009 Galicia left thousands of agricultural holdings, and came from holdings of less than 10 hectares that were abandoned during that period, they stopped producing more than 801,000 hectares of agricultural holdings. Do you know what happened to those 800,000 hectares? Less than half were incorporated into other farms, the rest were forested or finished in urban uses. That is, in that period, from 1982 to 2009, in Galicia 450,000 hectares have ceased to be used for agricultural holdings. That's in a country where we have only 21,9 % of our surface as a useful agricultural area, less than half the average of Spain, which is 46.9%, and also much less than the average of the European Union 15, which is 38.5%. But I, to see if this law – which will be law within a moment – serves something or not, will give you another description of our reality. In Galicia the individual landowners linked to agricultural holdings handle approximately 900,000 hectares between land and mountain surface, representing approximately 31%. The main problem with these properties is excessive fragmentation, which belongs to hundreds of thousands of owners, of course, and access problems. But there's 39% of the surface, about 1.2 million hectares, of our country, which is also thousands of private owners, but which have no link to agriculture, which are essentially absentee owners, who don't even have any kind of relation to the rural environment, whose properties are also excessively fragmented. And the challenge should be... and I ask, isn't it the challenge of this government to look at how without even altering the property or dominion of all these plots we can, for example, get these 1.6 million landowners in our country some of those properties we can give them to the agricultural holdings that need land? Isn't that a goal of this government? Isn't that not a challenge of this Government? Because if that was really a challenge from this government, they would have to put into a law to modify the agricultural structure of our country more than the four things they put in. Because I, after hearing Mrs. García Pacín, feel the imperative need to read how article 3 of this bill is drafted. Types of land structure improvement process: public partial restructuring – let's translate it, concentration of public character –, restructuring of land ownership of agricultural vocations by private people –concentrations between individuals –, restructuring of property through permutations – exchanges between property owners, interchanges between you and me, I give it and you give it to me, right?, that's a permut –, special processes inherent to the existence of large linear public works or mine cuts and intensive actions in rural areas. Can anyone tell me there's a novice in this thing that you couldn't do with the previous Particulate Merger Act? Please, if there's anything new about this, please let someone tell me. If there's something here that actually allows us to incorporate into agricultural farms the people who have a project to develop on earth, those 1,600,000 Greek lands that we have lands, many of them abandoned, that we don't look at them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u42	...some instrument that will allow without change of title necessarily that land can be used by farmers and livestock, if there is only one instrument in this whole bill, please tell me. And that, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party, is the challenge we have in this country. The challenge is not whether we do twenty zones or thirty areas of partial concentration per year, which do not solve the problem as it has been shown in the sixty years that we have been doing partial concentrations. The challenge is if among all of us we are able to establish new formulas for the mobilization of the earth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u44	...to allow this one to really be in use of who has to be, who works and who draws wealth from the earth. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u45	Mr Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u46	Well, then again good days. We are going to vote against the text and support the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party of Galicia, the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Why do we say it's a modification of the plot? Well basically because it focuses solely on property changes. Why do we reject it – as you say – face-to-face? We only have two options: either support it or reject it, it's not frontally. We reject it, yes, because it is not the solution we were told to be the problem of this country, it is not the solution. This is like you have a heart attack, you get into the surgery and operate on the spleen... how are you? Manzanas I'm bringing. That's not the solution. This gives no solution to the diagnosis made. If the diagnosis made is what we said of the data that there is, of loss of useful agrarian surface, of a lack of territorial base. It's not there, and much less is, at least, starting the solution there, no. We believe that it's much more efficient a legislative instrument in less perfect theory, but where resources are put to dynamize it, to carry it out. For example, does the Land Bank not work or could it work much better because it's not perfect law or why...? No, it doesn't work, we believe, mostly, that's because there's no resources to make it work. And that's why we say a new law is made to pretend that something is done when you haven't chosen the course you had the previous regulation. How many times do you want us to say it? I read the Land Mobility Act of 2011: "It is also intended to provide the Bank of Lands with legal resources to perform other vital functions for the dynamization of land mobility and even for the management of rural territory, allowing the Bank of Lands to be a dynamizing instrument of the Greek agro. Thus, this new law gives legal support to the conduct of property research and clarification works and the relevant record of the results of searches carried out, so that even from this Bank of Lands, arbitration, technical assistance, dynamisation and monitoring of shares of permutations between owners that allow a speedy concentration and plot management in a given area." Is that what you're doing? Is there any resources to do this? Is there any action to decentralize the Land Bank so that people are in the territory, the technicians are in the territory helping to dynamize these instruments? There's no her! You're dismantling the comarcal agrarian offices instead of giving them, among other things, these functions, they're dismantling, they're finishing up with the technicians of comarcal agrarian offices. Or do it through the Town Councils or any instrument. Not done, it does not work because the resources are not set to work. That's what we're saying, that's why it's a distraction maneuver. You politics – I've said it – is not dogma, it's not from the DOG, you have to have political will, you have to put in the resources. And that's why we also talk about budgets, it's obvious. How are you going to say "we're going to mobilize lands" if you don't put economic resources or human resources? How do you do that? That's cheating, that can't be an effective tool because that's cheating if you don't put those resources. And the data is there. You keep coming here without making a minimum of self-criticism about the policies that you've carried out and that you've given us this data. Perhaps, the useful agricultural surface data, the decrease of hectares of useful, dramatic and accelerated agrarian surface, perhaps even the last drop of area per exploitation – also, that there was, according to the data of the National Institute of Statistics – are perhaps good data for you. Perhaps the ageing of the agrarian population is good data for you. Maybe there's acres and acres of abandoned partial concentrations are good results and indicate that the policies you're following are good. We don't think we have to be serious about things. I think the approach we were told for years of what this law was going to be doesn't correspond to the content, which is just a small part of the solution of the problem, a very small part. We therefore believe that it is much easier for you to adopt a legislative text that actually makes an integral and political approach to land, budgetary policies, staff policies, and that all instruments will be accompanied. Because the law of the ground, Mrs. García Pacín, is totally contradictory to this law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u48	...it's totally contradictory; it favors fragmentation, favors rustic re-alignment as only urbanizable, allows it in general. When we know that over 60,000 hectares in the last two decades have been turned from rustic to urbanizable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u49	Socialist Group, you have the word Mr. Pablo García García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u50	Thank you, President. When we make reference, I think it was on a commission, I say it because Mrs. Pacín I think it's already the third time she says it to copy, I say it to explain it. I said it clearly because we didn't look at what other communities have done about what they're doing, about what should be a law of improvement of the territorial structure of this country; of course, what should be, nothing to do with the text of this law later. And I was talking, for example, about the law of another autonomous community, where I was talking clearly about commitments, budgetary commitments, certain commitments that were acquired by law. That was the reference I was saying to copy. In any case, Mrs. Pacín, let's see, I'm sure they're simple, yes, yes. Amendment, when it comes to determining priorities for holdings, my amendment is simple: "determining a plan for exploiting productive orientation." What more analysis? What more ambiguities? Where do you have the problem of saying whether or not you accept this? I mean, I'm just saying that if we determine a plan of productive orientation, that is, when we prioritize whether we give these gentlemen a farm or not, or if we put it here or put it there, or if we stop putting it, that there is a plan of productive orientation, that is to say, whether that person – we return to the people – has a chicken farm, a cow farm, a dairy farm, a beef farm. That's it, don't you know what ambiguity is? Simple, indeed, twenty-five amendments. What gives me the most do you call "concentration" or "partial restructuring process"? Call it what you want! Of course, I'm not going to go into that. What else do you give me if you call it "finca" or call it "replacement building"? Well, call it what you want, that's part of your story. But, indeed, I do not have any language problems even to learn the new names slowly, but it has been the same! I don't care exactly. With the text that there was, in any case, quite loyal we were and I believe that with consistency. We asked for the return, you approved it, they said you had to work on a text, and, therefore, we understand that it is what the Government wants to work on – I don't say you – the Government. It's true, what you can't tell lies and pretend to sell that text is going to be worth something you won't be worth. Counselor, I am convinced that this is not so, but if the technicians who have drawn up this told you that this would serve what they say will serve, bid them farewell, bid them down, they will not; I'm sure they didn't tell him, I'm convinced they didn't tell him. So you're fully aware that you're doing something that won't serve what you say you're going to serve. Mrs. Pacín, I set an example, and I repeat it, because I think it's a concrete and clear thing: EUR 300,000 mobilizes 800 hectares to incorporate them into agricultural activity, to cultivate them. I think that this law should go; I think it should be the objective of this law, based on the title, and it is not. And so it's an example you'll have your mistakes and it'll probably be a lot better, but that with few resources and without needing to modify any mobilising aspect for agricultural land farms, and that should be it. The problem is, there's no problem. Then another aspect, the urgency. I mean, this doesn't solve the urgency of the demand for land, a territorial base that has our farms, it doesn't solve it. We will continue the processes of partial mergers depending on the resources we have, will last a little less, but in any case it does not solve the emergency problem, which we believe should address this law on the basis of whether we agree on the diagnosis of the problem. And the conditionals, in fact, were to replace that of not letting or aquilating at least the arbitrariness of the Government as to compulsory, but circumscribed to the aspect that you pose, because you only pose that aspect. I remind you: the law will test it once approved with two or three clear examples of problems that from our point of view are the ones that are affecting that farms cannot access the ground: Plantation problems where plantations cannot theoretically be planted. The Counsellor says she'll apply the law; she could apply it now and not apply it, so far she won't apply it, no, not the previous one. Because that sanction process was already collected in the Land Mobility Act, and it's not applying it. A clear example that what goes to the Land Bank doesn't mean it's used either, and therefore we'll bring farms perfectly in the Land Bank, but perfectly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u52	...the gestures and the coughs. And I'm going to give you another example: two individuals who want to change a farm, so simple, permutate; permutate, they're clear, nobody needs it. What it costs them, the obstacles they have, the difficulties they have, and why did they give up? And once this law has been passed, we'll see that they'll continue to give up because of the obstacles, the difficulties and the costs, they'll still be tremendously expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u53	Thank you, Mr. García. Popular Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before a text sent by the Government and improved by this Parliament to the authorities of the People's Group, so it is rejected by the opposition without sufficient reason, to our understanding. This text, which is also positively valued by the representative sectors of rural areas, even ladies and gentlemen, by the university, as you said here, no, is aimed at improving the quality of life of people, is made for the people and next to the people. I repeat, I repeat, because you, the spokeswoman of the Joint Group, I think you are still ignoring the objectives, which is intended to be achieved. Objectives, including: to improve the structural, technical and economic conditions of farms, taking into account the criteria of management with economic and social utility to set up rural populations; to continue to fight against the abandonment of land, facilitating their mobilization, incorporating existing holdings or assisting the formation of new holdings, paying particular attention to the association initiative for common use; to reduce tax costs to promote the transmission of property, voluntary exchanges, leases or incorporation into the Land Bank of leisure land – these are not existing deductions for the heirs of a farm, this goes further, it is to be favoured that parcels of estates in agricultural activity end up in the hands of those who need them to work – to establish procedures for an intensive area of action in which full rural development performance can be carried out; to simplify once more – as we said – to concentrate – the land management of land for all phases and with all guarantees of ownership. Finally, you can repeat again that you are not involved with future legal texts from the point of view of urbanism, Mr Sánchez. But I repeat it again: it's not true. Now, the different councils talk to each other, they have work and collaboration fluidity, not in the past when responsibility is shared. Then they were static compartments to which you referred. It can be said that it is negative to include rural nuclei as you did in commission, and in time to say that the application of the new standard will not affect the limitation of the organization of land with agrarian potential. You're a contradiction to yourself. You can demand that resources and means be taken into account in the text of the law itself, as has been done repeatedly, when we know that these demands remain. Every legislative initiative is successful – everyone knows – when it is accompanied by the appropriate budget and economic allocations, but above all by the political will. Let us remember, Mr. Garcia, that there were rules such as the Dependency Act that it did have very rigorous budgets, and very reached in its legal text, but then the competences and really what was required of the communities was that they put those budgets on the table. That is to legislate with other people's budgets, that is to derive responsibility for the application of a rule by planning others, third parties. That is to demand resources in the rules itself, in the legislation itself. You can assert that it won't be enough what's late, as it was said here very well. In any case, we understand that it is necessary, that it comes to complete the normative body committed to the beginning of the laws of President Feijóo, and together with the Land Mobility Act and the Mountain Law will allow to continue to focus on the improvement of the structure of rural territory, dynamizing the economy and favouring the settlement of the population. And, Mrs. Peace, if you as an example of your good management or your good doing, and of your mobilization of land, are those examples, those facts that were used during your government responsibility, let's hope they don't repeat themselves. Because it incorporates, mobilizes lands, incorporating the Land Bank, plots that had no title, masses left of concentration, or even when they were not able to achieve and agree with the governments of the nation the incorporation of lands of unknown owners, of course, that as they are few and you despise... things so simple, they weren't who from government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u56	...with nationalist responsibilities of carrying out and doing. Of course we're self-criticizing, Your Honor. We are the first to make self-criticism, to seek resources, but we have to start with the foundations, the normative bases that legally modify the reality of the territorial structure of agriculture. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Debate and vote on the opinion of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law establishing the Official College of Dietists and Nutritionists of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u57	The amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the BNG, the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Socialist Group are kept to the full. The President of the Commission, Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz, spoke for the presentation of the Commission's dictum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen. The Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia was entered into the Parliamentary Register of February 24, 2015. The Bureau of Parliament issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 26 March 2015. The partial amendments were qualified on April 27, 2015. The Joint Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment to its entirety, which was rejected at its plenary meeting on 28 April 2015. With regard to the partial amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia introduced six, the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga of Left seven, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego thirteen and the Joint Parliamentary Group five. At its meeting on 30 April 2015, the Commission appointed the following rapporteurs: by the Popular Parliamentary Group, Fr.Aurelio Núñez Centeno as the holder and Ms. Paula Prado del Río as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Ms. María Carmen Acuña do Campo as holder and Ms. María Carme Gallego Calvar as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Ms. Eva Solla Fernández as holder and Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores as holder and Ms. Maria Teresca Paz Franco as alternate; and by the Mixed Parliamental Group, Consuelo Martínez García as holder and Ms. Carmen Igles Suero as alternate. The Conference was constituted on 4 May 2015 and after successive meetings its report was completed, a report which was put to the debate and a vote at the meeting of the Committee on 29 May, at which the agreements proposed by the Committee in its report were ratified. The articulated text of the dictame consists of five articles, two transitional layouts and one last layout. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Commission's working report, which I am presiding over, and it is now necessary to complete the legislative procedure by subjecting it to plenary consideration and approval if it is deemed appropriate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u60	Thank you, President. Well, I have tabled a refund amendment to this bill, I continue to maintain the lack of justification for the creation of this school, and I will therefore vote against this bill, since the creation of professional schools does not affect the quality of the professional services they represent. They are corporate associations that have as their sole purpose defending the corporate interests of their colleges, not even the interests of the profession, but unique and exclusively the interests of the graduates who are colleges. In addition, as the ESC itself indicates, professional schools do what they do is to assign functions that do not correspond to them, and in particular, functions that have a great deal to do with trade union activity. In health care, in the health sector, we know a lot about college and what it means. What it means for schools to have in their hands all the data of all professionals when college is compulsory, or of professionals who decide to college if it's not compulsory to create their own unions, corporate unions that defend their professional interests and are leaving within the world of health to all those uncollected professional categories in total deprotection. So we see that there are nursing unions that are born from schools, medical unions that are born from schools, technical unions that are born from schools, but they don't leave any kind, they occupy union representations and they leave uncollected people in a situation of defence of their total interests. Therefore, we consider that the function performed by schools is illegitimate. But it's also fundamental, because, in addition, it's an essential condition for the creation of a school, which has a public interest, and has never been shown the public interest in the creation of this College of Dietists-Nutritionists. Because, of course, they're dedicated to health, but everyone we're dedicated to health, of course, there's a responsibility on public health in any of the professions, but they're not all collected. Moreover, when it is said from a profession that the collection is optional for anyone you want, it obviously has nothing to do with the quality of the service or has no public interest. So we're talking about a purely political interest in maintaining time, and building on time, medieval structures that come from when society was structured by professional guilds, which has nothing to do with a multidisciplinary and globalized society like today. Without more – and I'm done now, I would ask that, by democracy, by the sense of responsibility, today this law had been withdrawn and the creation of a school that really does not respond to any social need or social demand, nor does it guarantee better health care for anyone. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u62	Good morning. This law for the creation of the Official College of Dietists and Nutritionists of Galicia is a simple, scrutinised text, consisting only of 4 articles, 2 transitional provisions and a final one. But this scrutinised text is more than enough to visualize the ideological position of the People's Party and its intransigence in accepting the amendments and positions of the other groups regarding this text. I want to start by expressing the concern that the creation of professional schools is at the demand of the party, when there is a collective of professionals who ask for it, as this case is, and not a result of planning by the Greek administration, which is at the expense of the professionals who ask for it, and not that the Administration evaluates which professions and titrations should be able to be regulated by the creation of a professional school. The creation of new professional schools should respond to a thoughtful design on which corporate administration in our country, in Galicia, should be determined not only by the evaluation of public interest made by the professionals themselves who affect the creation of that school. This justification for creation is based, in this case, on the objective of safeguarding the legitimate interests of professionals, dietists and nutritionists. I mean, it's not the model of the Galego Nationalist Block, which we argue that the association area, the trade union organizations, is sufficient to meet this issue. Secondly, the creation of the same is also justified on the basis of general interest, which is in doubt. It is in doubt, firstly, by the Galician Competition Council, which in the report it issued by request of the Government estimates that the creation of the College of Dietists and Nutritionists is not proportional to the objective of protecting people's health. He understands that the establishment of an official school of dieters and nutritionists in Galicia is not justified, since there is no state-wide school and there are no professional colleges of other regulated health professions. The ESC also considers that the motivation for an overriding general interest is not sufficiently justified; it also shows concern at the proliferation of professional schools to the development of reasons of public interest not demonstrated in such a way as to be indisputable, and considers that professional schools are also intended to be set up for the defence of interests outside the general public interest which can be achieved by means other than the colleges. It establishes means such as those of associations or unions, with which – as I have already said – it also agrees with the position of the Galician Nationalist Block. To these doubts we must add that the Government of Greece has taken no step towards including the functions of dietists and nutritionists in the public health system. It would be a logical question for that irrefutable general interest to come together that in Galician public health system if they included the functions of these professionals themselves, which is not so. I think it's enough questions for the People's Party to accept a more frank dialogue with the opposition groups. It was not so, whenever there is no regulation that establishes which professions are to be collected – as I said before – and every time the dietists and nutritionists have done all the procedure that sets out the regulation to arrive at the creation of the school. The Galego Nationalist Block has already said in the whole debate that we would not oppose its processing because there is this work of dietists and nutritionists. In Galicia, there have been studies of human and dietary nutrition for about four years. In 2014 the first promotion of dietists and nutritionists trained in Galicia came out. The information we have is that the Association of Dietists and Nutritionists, created in principle expressly to achieve the creation of professional school, has around 56 partners. As I say, we were not going to oppose the processing of this law for the reasons that I have just explained, but that we conditioned our favorable vote that in the final approval a number of issues such as non-requirement of the collection, the introduction of the use of the Greek language in the professional school, and that we did not include explicit subordination to the Spanish legislative framework in the creation of the school of dietists. In this direction we tabled 13 amendments, some referring to minor issues, such as the modification of language issues or almost virtually wrong issues, but others were at the bottom of those issues that I have just mentioned. But we found ourselves at the People's Party's refusal to accept any of the amendments that were precisely changing those important aspects. He only accepted the amendments to these minor issues, such as language and drafting corrections, or the introduction that, in addition to the graduates, he stated that in the professional school they should also be graduates in Human Nutrition and Dietetics. The fundamental amendments to the Galego Nationalist Block were first to article 4, where the collection is regulated and also where that subordination appears to state legislation. We present an amendment that says textually that: "The collection at the Official College of Dietists and Nutritionists in Galicia is voluntary, without in any case it can be regarded as a requirement or condition for the exercise of professional activity." We do so because we believe that it is essential that it be established in a nidily and clearly that it is the will of the Lexislative, of the Greek Lexislative, of this Parliament, that the collegiate should have a voluntary character, that there should be no doubt about it. But the People's Party did not accept this amendment, which also referred to the fact that there was no need for a drafting to explicitly leave subordination to state legislation. I would like to point out that the ESC, also in its report, expresses that the wording of this principle can easily lead to confusion about the mandatory nature of the previous collection for the profession in Galicia, so it believes that the voluntary nature of the profession should be expressly realized. It was a demand that we made all opposition groups, but I insist that the People's Party refused to change its wording in this respect and also in its subordination to state legislation. The ESC also says in this case literally that it seems contradictory that the collection is required when a state law establishes it, since this rule which is delimiting corresponds to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. So it's understood that the phrase "when a state law establishes it" should be deleted. We agree with the ESC's statement, so - I insist - we present this amendment which seems most reasonable to us. That it is clear that collegiation cannot be compulsory and that it is in a clear way that it is a legislation of this sovereign legislature, of the Greek Parliament, which is a Greek law, approved by the Greek Parliament with full sovereignty, and that it does not have to appear the modification of the conditions when it decides another legislative area. I have already said in the Committee debate that words are not harmless, words have meaning. It's not indifferent to the use of words or words. So if the People's Party refused to amend this article is because it wanted to prevail its ideological position that the limitation of the Greek Legislative to the State Legislative -- an ideological position that we obviously disagree with in the BNG. We do not accept unjustifiable and unnecessary self-limitation because this is the German Parliament, with full capacity to legislate on the issues that apply to it, and in this case we have the capacity to do so. With which we are before the fundamental article of this scrutinised legislative text and – I insist the People's Party is still in time to rectify and accept these changes. We also tabled an amendment to include an article collecting the use of the Greek. There was no reference in the original text to the need for the use of Greek. We tabled an amendment in the sense that the Greek language should be used in all external communications of the school and ensure its presence in school life according to the Constitution of Galicia's Autonomy. It is true that with the acceptance of an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, there is already the presence of the Greek, but in the BNG we consider that in an insufficient way because it remains in terms of voluntaryness, in terms of "search" and "afforestation". We consider it insufficient in the BNG. It seems regrettable to us that we have to continue to demand that Galicia be used in Galicia and that, in response to this demand, we continue to encounter the frontal opposition of the People's Party to that of Galicia, and in the bodies created following the will of this Greek Parliament, we do not consider the need to use it. There's also another question that we don't find irrelevant. In the first transitional provision, the governing bodies of the Professional College of Dietists and Nutritionists are provisionally regulated, and we present an amendment for the balance of gender to consist of the text to be compulsory. In the text it appears that "will be sought" that there is gender parity, and we, in front of searching, made an amendment so that it would switch from "search" to "what" because "search" is a statement of intent, it is a philosophical position of substance, and "what" we consider to be mandatory. It seems to us that gender issues, equality, cannot remain in declarations of intent, must be explicitly collected in the text. And we do not accept the popular party's argument that in this case it would be difficult to comply with it because there are more women in the profession of dietists than men. If so, you could be saved by putting yourself in the text "unless there are not enough professionals." It is not desired, with which I insist again that it also responds to an ideological position of considering the issues of gender equality as something that remains good in the declarative issues but not in the obligations of it. For these reasons we believe that the People's Party is still in time to rectify, it is still in time to accept the proposals we make, especially as far as it is not in any way as compulsory non-colegislation in this matter. If so, we will vote in favour, and if we do not, unfortunately, we cannot do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u63	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u64	Good day to all of you again. In the debate that took place in committee, we were just beginning to talk about the fact that we were before a brief text. But a brief text that, through its five resulting articles and three dispositions, perfectly demonstrates which are the two antagonistic perspectives that exist: that of the amendments presented by the opposition groups and that of the resulting text, which, logically, is what the majority group defends. The words – as we said then – are not innocent, because, in the end, behind all this creation of a professional school is where the limits of the Public Service are; that is, where are the limits of the public service that the Public Service must guarantee. Because, in the background, what is behind the creation of a professional school is sometimes the derivation of public functions that should be guaranteed by the Administration, and therefore we, of course, cannot agree that it is professional schools that handle certain public functions. And there we have, for example, that already through some of them... we have denounced, for example, the irregularities committed in this respect in the College of Registrars. We understand that there is a substantive debate to be held with regard to the professional schools themselves. Simply by making a small query about its usefulness or function, we can see that there are not very few recent criticisms that have been made. From compulsive generators of bureaucracy, or complaints for their unclear electoral systems of representation; opacity, corruption and also curious rotating doors, owned by professional schools, which connect public wealth to private profit. That's why we understand that we need a debate of depth, a substantive debate about the functions, about the incompatibilities, about the professions in which they should be, yes or no, compulsory to their collection. That debate should take place, and don't come here and leave a warm text that doesn't oblige but yes. We therefore – we insist – have an in-depth debate on the functionality of professional schools and their regulation, and we actually believe that this has been attempted. In fact, it was made that the preliminary draft law that was pending in the state was parked because there was like a kind of movement of tectonic plates of all professional schools due, precisely, to the character of compulsory collegiation. That point that made it happen from 80 professions where collegiation was mandatory to 38 resulted in the movement of tectonic plates and the deferral. Logically, at the end, the state decided to postpone; others say that it is pending reports from the European Union, which is precisely who asks the State to speed up what they call liberalization of professional schools. But we understand that there must be a debate on the functionality of the professional schools themselves and their lives, so that it is not, logically, intrusive in what public service must be, public service, and the guarantees that the public service must offer as a provider of a public service. Because – we think – if a dietitian gets the qualification to practice the profession, and then goes to a public job offer through Sergas and approves the opposition, logically, we understand that in that case it is not for anything compulsory to collect, because it is clear that for the profession is already sufficiently valued, we understand. Therefore, the model of professional schools – as we have said in the whole debate – is not the model of the Gaga de Left Alternative, and we do not present amendments to the whole because we understood that there was indeed a request. We understand that this is not the best way, but we also understand that organized civil society has the right to request, move and organize to carry out certain tasks. That's why we argued that if he went his way, in order to be able to amend what we really understood was necessary to amend. We also question their need; necessity must always come on the basis of public health interests. Logically, the dietist-nutritionist profession has a clear functionality on the health issue, yes, but it happens that if you're going to see how the panorama is in the public hospitals of Greece, as is the view in Sergas, it turns out that the staff who makes the diets for the different pathologies, for example, at the Lucus Augusti hospital, is privatized. So we understand there's a contradiction or not? That must be explained by the People's Party. It seems to us that there is a greater interest on the part of the Government in the need to implement school than in the drive of the profession itself, or in the recognition, through the Public Administration, of that profession in the public health system. So we understand that privatization is not a way, of course, that we defend. On the other hand – as we said in the various amendments that we tabled – we presented 7 amendments, but four of them were conceptually important, especially Amendment No. 1 to Article 3, where we already introduced that in the personal field the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia group the professionals... and we ended up: "...and that they want to join him voluntarily." That is where the question stands in all this respect; that is, the willingness to join the vocational school. We are not against the fact that professional school is created, always – of course – that it does not force itself to adhere to it, to college it, to be able to practice the profession. We understand that can't be. On the other hand, in Article 4, as it is drafted, which says: "The exercise of the profession of dietitian-nutritionist with a single or main professional home in the Autonomous Community of Galicia will require the incorporation into the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia when it so establishes a state law...", introduces legal insecurity and introduces here the voice of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, which is to subject to what the Parliament of Galicia must legislate to which it emanates from the State. So we understand that we have to solve this legal insecurity, and you leave it; and, of course, we cannot – we repeat – force the collection. We are therefore faced with a text that needs more debate. We understand that we need more debate, especially in the central aspect of compulsoryity or not of collegiation. The Galician Council of Competition – it has been said before – has stood against this obligation, so we understand that sometimes the organs that establish certain dictates, certain positions, certain resolutions, must be heard because, of course, sometimes correct. And in this sense, we understand that the Galician Council of Competition is right when it says that one cannot logically introduce the compulsoryity of the collection, or leave it in such an insecure, legally way, to our understanding. On the other hand, he also spoke of Amendment No. 5 of the need to introduce parity as a mandatory criterion, and he did not leave it to the free will of those wild verbs which ultimately allow absolutely everything. And finally, we understand that we need to confirm the legality of the statutes. We were told, logically, that it couldn't be because doing it would require changing Galician school law. We understand that it is necessary for the public administration to say something. We know perfectly well that behind this debate between professional schools and public administration is precisely that of the autonomy of professional schools, which are perfectly self-sufficient to exercise even public functions. We understand that the Public Administration must guarantee precisely the ethics and the legality of everything, because we understand that it cannot be doors – as it has been shown in any case – that connect –curious rotating doors – private core and public res. We therefore understand that this debate must be held there. So our position for now is not to vote favourably for this project as it is, because – we insist – the voluntaryness of the collection is not clearly defined, it does not clearly respect parity in the management bodies and, of course, we still do not see clearly the utility and the general interest when we are attending, from the Government of Greece, a privatization, precisely that function that is so much needed today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I, once again, want to start this debate by greeting the professionals and professionals of the diet and nutrition of Galicia, who are surely following this debate with great interest. And I also want to start this debate by stressing that it was precisely those professionals who demanded all of them and the creation of their school, for which they had already presented in 2012 a preliminary draft law before the Government of the United States. And that's why, by coming to this law driven by a citizen collective, the People's Group should have been much more receptive during the debate of the Phoenician and accepted the amendments of the other groups, who were only trying to improve the initial text. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that among all of us we had made a more complete text, a richer text, but, unfortunately, the pre-power of the People's Party made most of the contributions made by others to be rejected. In addition, it had seemed in the Phoenician debate that the People's Party had been in a great hurry to bring this law to plenary; in a hurry that it is not understood, for the collective of nutritionists and dietists and nutritionists and dietists had been waiting for Mr Feijóo for more than three years, then I think they might well wait a few more days and debate the text properly. And of course, so quickly, so quickly, it made it impossible for this law to agree between the opposition groups and the majority group. You preferred to bring the law to cash in, in that legislative rage that entered the People's Parliamentary Group I suppose to comply with those numbers that were committed to, and they forgot the usefulness and importance of this text. That was probably the rush of the rapporteur, which made the People's Group accept only one and a half amendment – I have to say one and a half – of the only six amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group: No. 4, on the use of Greek, and No. 6, of a technical nature, which was partially accepted for a transaction. But the Socialists will continue to insist, and we will continue to keep alive until the end of this debate Amendment No. 1, No. 2, No. 3 and No. 5, confident that the People's Party had understood the 24th day, among other things, that pressure is not good, especially when it comes to legislating with justice, democracy, parity, with common sense and for the future. Mr President, I do not think it is possible for you to understand or explain why your group rejected Amendment No 1 of the Socialists, in which we only ask that the structure of the new school, as well as its functioning, be democratic. According to you, you explained in the P.O. because you're already presuming. Well, precisely, because you're already presuming, it doesn't hurt anyone who explicitly appears in the text. We also maintain Amendment No 2, hoping that you will reflect and still vote in favour of this amendment, since in it, ladies and gentlemen, we only ask for equality: that in the new school no standards or status discriminate on the basis of gender and that the governing bodies have a parity composition. I wonder what bothers the People's Party about this amendment to have it rejected. I don't know if it's equal, but the fact is that it will seem that the People's Party is disturbed by democracy and equality even to others, even when it's to apply to a law that regulates the creation of a professional school. Our Amendment No 3, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely essential for our group, and so we said when we support the consideration of this draft law. It is a matter of clearly appearing in the text that incorporation into school must be voluntary. A school cannot become a barrier and a difficulty more for those professionals who, while not having a job, will be forced to pay fees and to pay school fees. Of course, the People's Party does not show much consistency, as it turns out that the very PP who does not accept state resolutions is very jealous in the case of this law; it explains. The same PP that does not accept, for example, the resolutions of the Central Administrative Court of the State when it falls – and I will use this term so colloquial but so graphic – the suspected contracts used for health privatizations – do not hesitate to bring the resolution to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia for better resolution – however, it is very respectful when it comes to a law on a professional school, and wants to leave volunteering in the law at the expense of, ladies and gentlemen, no less than a future state law. The creation of schools is an autonomous competition, as demonstrated by the fact that we are talking about this law here. It would therefore seem logical to think that it is precisely this law where the voluntary or compulsory will have to be determined. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, there's our Amendment No 5, which collected the exception of the collection for those people professionally linked to the Public Service, something very common in other schools and other laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I would ask them to recapitate and accept our amendments. By the way, I have to say that the amendments of all opposition groups are quite coincidentally, and if the People's Party had shown more speed or less, we'd certainly come to more than one transaction among them all. With regard to the collective of the nutritionists and dietists who demand the creation of their school, the socialists will certainly not oppose us. In fact, we have already supported the consideration of this project, but as we have already said at that time, our support was linked to the volunteerism of the collection, something which the People's Party now does not want to ensure, so we will be obliged, if it does not recapitate and accept our amendments – which we hope and wish it to be – to abstain from voting on the text resulting from the Phoenician Parliament. If a professional school, ladies and gentlemen, works well, i.e. by supporting, informing, guiding and supporting the colleges and the colleges, it will make it necessary and desirable for all of them, even though in the law it appears as a volunteer. But if, instead, a school turns into a chiringuit at the service of a few, at least the professionals and professionals can rule out it. Ladies and gentlemen, a professional school must be a voluntary, democratic and, of course, parity organization, and these conditions, honourable Member, must be explicitly reflected in the law that believes it. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group will continue to maintain the amendments tabled on its day. We look forward to the support of the majority group. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u68	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank and greet the representatives of the Galaga Association of Dietists and Nutritionists who are in the rostrum of this Chamber. For four years now, this German association has filed a request for the creation of its professional school. This request was submitted to public information without any allegations opposing the processing of the draft law. There was therefore no questioning of the public interest character of that school; public interest which now, as you will see, reject opposition groups by keeping their amendments. The processing of this preliminary draft – as has already been said here – has suffered a delay motivated by the attempt to accompany its approval by the Government of the State, a new draft bill of professional services and schools, in compliance with the transitional provision for the fourth of Law 25/2009, of December 23. This preliminary draft should include among its functions defining which professions are compulsory, which would allow us to adopt in Galicia texts of school creation laws already adapted to the requirements of the new state legislation. As after the elaboration of several versions of the preliminary draft did not prosper its approval, it was therefore that the Government of the United States brought to this Parliament the draft law on the creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. That's why I was surprised by some of the opposition groups' statements about the legislative activity of our Government and the pressure the People's Parliamentary Group had to pass this law. I think, ladies and gentlemen, those statements are not fair. In the State there are already ten official schools of dietists-nutritionists in various autonomous communities, and even – here mentioned the ESC report – approved the General Courts of Law 19/2014, of the creation of the General Council of Professional Colleges of Dietists-Nutritionists of Spain, a law that, although they cannot believe it, has relied on the unanimous support of all parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies. You see, ladies and gentlemen, you see, members of the association, quite the opposite here, in the Galician Parliament. This profession has a clear and fundamental impact on public health. Good eating habits and proper nutrition substantially improve people's quality of life, and they are also decisive in the prevention and treatment of many pathologies. We have to separate the population from the miracle diets and poor diet solutions and scientific evidence that circulate on social networks and many other media. We have seen these days, unfortunately, the severity of pseudo-scientific information – in this case I'm referring to the anti-cunation groups – that keep a child in an ICU in Catalonia with a serious diphtheria painting. The bill states that the collection will be compulsory when it establishes a state law. Such drafting of the article was adopted on the express recommendation of the General Legal Counsel of Galicia, as can be verified in the draft law file. The reason for this recommendation is that in 2009 the Central Government – from which the Socialist Party – has moved the amendment of article 3.2 of the Basic Law on Professional Schools to establish that it will be the Central Government who will develop a bill that defines the professions that will require compulsory college. The Constitutional Court itself has already annulled a number of autonomous precepts in recent years, which sought to regulate the compulsoryity or not of the collection. In any case, it is expressly clear, with the wording contained in the Greek text, that the collection will be voluntary in Galicia to exercise the profession of dietitian-nutritionist until the future state school law decides on the subject. That is why we Members and Members of the Socialist Group do not understand their amendments under Article 4 of this law. In recent years, 2013 and 2014, the laws of Andalusia, Murcia and Castile-Leon have been approved, all by unanimity of the People's Party, Socialist Party and United Left. With regard to volunteering, those laws say the following. Andalusia: "It will not require inclusion in the school unless a state law so provides." Murcia: "In accordance with article 3.2 of Law 2/1974. on 13 February, on professional colleges, in the wording given by Law 25/2009 of 22 December, the obligation on collegial incorporation will only proceed when a state law establishes a basic law." Castela-Leon: "You would need to join the school if a state law so establishes." As has been exposed in the interventions of the groups, the main schools for unanimous approval of this law, in addition to the volunteerity of the collection, of which we have already spoken, is the public interest in the creation of school and the activity of dietists-nutritionists and the reference expressed in the project to Law 7/2004, the Greek Law for equality of women and men, and the Organic Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men, and also strict parity in the management commission. Other amendments that reject our group have to do with the Socialist Group's mention of the structure and democratic functioning of schools, when this is a constitutional article. Article 36 of the Constitution reads: "The internal structure and functioning of schools must be democratic." Of course, in the laws of the 2009 professional schools when the Bipartite ruled, the reference to the democratization and democratic functioning of the schools does not appear at all. There are some BNG amendments, which are 4 and 10, which we cannot accept because we follow the board's legal technical guidelines, which say that it cannot be a transitional provision that ceases to be effective when applied once. Another amendment by the Socialist Group on the collection of professional persons associated with the Public Administration must also refuse it because we consider that it exceeds the competence of the Autonomous Community, and there are different judgments by the Constitutional Court that have referred to the competence to force or exempt the collection strictly state, as is required by the amendment of the Socialist Government of the year 2009 of the Law on Professional Schools. Amendment No. 7 of the AGE Group rejected it because we believe that the general conditions for the approval of the statutes of schools are already clearly defined in the Law on Professional Schools of Galicia, in Law No. 11/2001, and we do not find it advisable to specify specificities in this law, in the law on the creation of this school. We think the right thing is that they are all based on a global rule, because otherwise, in the event that the general procedure regulated by Law 11/2001 had changed, this school would be subject to special regulation. With regard to Amendment No. 2 of the Socialist Group, with regard to the addition of a new article on gender equality and balanced composition, we have to say the same thing. She doesn't regulate or school, she just creates it. School regulation is contained in Law 11/2001. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the aforementioned amendment on discrimination on grounds of sex, inequality in the treatment of opportunities or rights and duties between women and men in college, and on the nullity of any agreement by the school government bodies that violates laws 7/2004 and 3/2007, seem to us absolutely redundant. There could be no other way to apply to professional schools the laws cited about equality of women and men. In short, as I had already commented in the entire debate of the bill, I was surprised by such a large number of amendments. A total of 31 for a simple text that apparently did not lend itself to large discrepancies. The People's Group accepted 4 and traded 1 of the 13 amendments from the BNG Group, which had withdrawn 1 and remained in 12. The AGE Group presented 7, three accepted and four refused. The socialists presented six, accepted one, transaction one, and rejected four. And from the Joint Group – which had already been the author of an amendment to the whole, as stated here – we could not accept any; one of them referred to the express volunteering of the collection, and the other two deleted paragraphs in the explanatory statement relating to the public interest of this law. And what amendments do we accept? Indeed, we accept the revision of the sexist language and the correction of the text. Amendment 3 of the Nationalist Block Galego partly, because it clarifys the abilities of the school; Amendment 5 of the BNG, where specific reference was made to the new name of the enabling qualification between graduates and graduates. Two AGE amendments could be included in the BNG correction for sexist language. We also wanted to accept partially the 4th AGE, since it correctly clarified the right of admission of all persons entitled, but it linked them to the subject of volunteerism expressed in the law. The amendment 4 of the PSdG, to promote the use or use of the Greek language in school, we accept that, and not that of the Nationalist Block of Wales, because that is exactly the same as it appears in the laws of professional colleges approved there are two laws in this House. And we also accept 6 of the AGE and 9 of the BNG, which best profiles the transitional work of the management commission that will act on a pre-school basis. They are therefore a total of ten amendments or accepted or traded, almost all of which were acceptable, because the rest of them either violated basic legislation or were either contradictory or redundant with the content of the law. We regret the refusal to vote affirmatively by opposition groups a law of creating such an important professional school for the public health of our citizens. In 2006 – as we speak – in the adoption of laws similar to this one, the People's Party offered collaboration and not entanglement. For example, in the Law on the creation of dental hygienist schools, the only two amendments were introduced. One in relation to the use of the English language, indeed; and another in relation to the abilities of the school. We thought from the People's Group that this is collaboration, and what you did from the beginning in the processing of this law was a certain degree of obstructionism. We can't accept your amendments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u69	Thank you very much. Round of the groups to be defined on the amendments kept by the others. [[Pause.]] Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u70	Very brief. I think it's all said and that little more can be added. I'm still saying that professional schools today don't make any sense, they're kind of anachronistic. Anachronistic as almost everything the Government of the United Nations maintains, including the deputies; a social structure that does not respond to current needs at all. It's not justified in any public interest, no matter how much she insists. The People's Party has still been unable to name a single question of public interest to which it answers the constitution of this school; not one has been heard. It assumes the functions of other social organizations; it represents only corporate interests – which have nothing to do with the interests of both Greek society and public health –; it is a law that only responds to the interest of 56 headlines – not even of all headlines – and leaves out – that is, there is no interest in this law – more than two million Welsh people. I mean, they've just legislate for all the Greeks and the Greeks 56 people. Of course, as democracy leaves much to be desired. And as a matter of interest too, 56 headlines from those in Galicia; I don't know what the total number of dietists-nutritionists is, but it seems quite small. A law that will not improve for anything or the life of the Greeks and the Greeks or the health of the Greeks and the Greeks or the quality of the food of the Greeks and the Greeks. The more it would fulfill the People's Party, instead of passing this law and being so concerned about creating professional schools, giving decent food to the sick people who are entering public hospitals, who are eating more and more industrial and less natural food. So I am going to vote against this bill and - and I want it to be this way - I think we are going to do an illegal action today, which is to pass a law that does not meet the minimum requirements for being a law, that of the proposed creation of the College of Nutritionists and Dietists, because by failing to demonstrate their public interest – a question that is essential for the establishment of a school – this law that will be passed today by the People's Party – understanding that alone – will constitute a new illegality of the People's Party. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u71	Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u72	I want to start by saying that for the BNG if it is of great importance to the profession of dietists-nutritionists. So much so that we argue that they should be part of Galician public health and that they should integrate nutrition and diet units, both primary and specialized care. But I'm afraid if we bring this initiative here, the People's Party will vote against it. So you demagogy the fairs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We in the BNG are not against the profession or its importance and relevance, and it seems vital, because prior to medication is prevention and food. And we could talk about obesity issues; we could actually talk about what food quality is being given in our hospitals; we could talk about a lot of things, but that's not the case. We also said that we didn't oppose the creation of the College of Dietists and Nutritionists, as long as it had been nested in a way that was voluntary to its membership. And I don't know how the People's Party is capable, manifesting to you all opposition groups that by modifying that intransigent position of you, and with another wording, they would have the favorable vote of all groups, to keep themselves from changing a comma. It seems rather that you were interested in reaching this point, where you had only voted in favour of it; more in a political use of the subject than in the interests of the professionals who demand the creation of the school. Because if it wasn't, there's no reason why you wouldn't accept the change we asked for from the opposition's four groups. Like there's no reason for them to be in such a hurry in the processing process when I've been in the drawer for four years at the request of the professionals. So, who is making use here – we don't know with what intent, I understand – of this issue is the People's Party. I insist that we regret this position, because simply with an amendment to the wording which did not remain in ambiguity, ambiguity denounced by the ESC, position on the doubts expressed by the Galician Competition Council and the ESC, not solely by the opposition groups, and despite the considerations of these two official bodies where, of course, the BNG does not have a majority, we request changes in the text on this same path so that it does not remain in ambiguity. In order not to remain in ambiguity, you, Mr. People's Party's Member, say there are things they don't collect because they're redundant. Except when that redundancy is to give evidence and to point out that this Parliament is a subsidiary of the state legislature; there you have no problem with putting it explicitly. So, who's playing with questions is unique and exclusively you. I insist that I regret this position of the People's Party. BNG is going to abstain because it's a request from professionals who obviously look for the issues they consider to be the best to benefit from their interest. But the BNG, as a political group, must also ensure that things remain clear and transparent. So they don't accept that non-collegislation appears in a clear way; they don't accept that the use of Greek appears in a clear way; they don't accept that gender equality appears in a clear way, and if they accept that in a clear, unnecessary and unjust way subordination appears, which most seems to be legislating in a temporary way, as long as the state lets us, as Madrid does, and when they say something else, as they usually do, bend to those decisions. You are the ones who have to explain why, if with small gestures they would get a unanimous approval from this Parliament, they prefer an exclusive vote from the People's Party. They'll have to justify it. They'll have to explain it to the professionals. I take advantage of it to tell you that for nothing the BNG is against its profession, not much less!, that we consider it relevant, but, of course, the position of the People's Party leads us to abstain in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u73	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u74	Let's go. It goes on to say that the amendments of the other groups coincide in the conceptual aspects that we have already analyzed in the first intervention. But the most important of them, undoubtedly – in addition, logically, with regard to parity – is precisely volunteering: volunteering as an inescapable argument. We, logically, cannot – you have to say this here – are, at least, against professionals, dietists and nutritionists. What we said, precisely, is that, if the public administration respects the profession, what it must do, logically, is provide the public health system of professionals and diet and nutrition professionals, and not, of course, subject it to privatization. It must be where you see the real promotion of this profession in our public health, there!; that is what we said in the first intervention. As we also said in the whole debate, the model of professional schools is not the model of the AGE, but we welcomed it and said that we wanted to amend this bill because we understood that it was an initiative of civil society organized through the Galaga Association of Dietists and Nutritionists, and that it would only receive our favourable support – the yes – if certain conditions were met, among them, precisely, that of volunteerism of the collection. We understand that this is not true of the final text offered by the People's Party. We understand that ambiguity is maintained and, of course, legal insecurity, as much as the spokesperson for the People's Party. For us it is a legal insecurity that is said: do this, but it will change into nothing, or it can change into nothing. So, therefore, we understand that there is insecurity; and if there were to be genuine volunteering, then of course there would be no insecurity in that respect. So we, like the people who preceded us – we said in the first round that we could not vote favourably on the maintenance of this issue, an obligation that remains camouflaged – will maintain the vote we held in the Commission, which was the vote for abstention from the ruling, let us say to the resulting text. So we support the amendments presented by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block because they are consistent amendments to the basic concepts, for example, of the Greek, parity and volunteerness of the collection. Therefore, nothing more than saying that AGE will keep its vote given to the Commission, which is an abstention vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u75	Thank you. Socialist Group. Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u76	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Sir, I have to give you the reason. Yes, I have to give him the reason. Press is a very subjective term. Well, let's make it more objective. Tell us, honourable Member, the next time you have, exactly how many minutes you have lasted for this bill. And if you can't talk about Galicia without going around Andalusia, the Bipartite and I don't know what else, tell us also how many minutes the lectures in Andalusia lasted, when I don't know where and in no way. Look, the bad thing is, if it wasn't in a hurry, what was it, then, honourable Member, that prevented a consensus in this law? Short belt of the People's Party? Or did the People's Party prefer a law of the People's Party itself instead of a law for the collective of professionals of nutritionists and dietists and nutritionists and dietists? Look, I'm very sorry, very sorry, very much, the free rejection of the amendments of the opposition. I very much regret the lack of consensus shown by the People's Group before such a kind and demanding law as this. I think you've missed a wonderful opportunity to demonstrate the dialogue and conciliation that citizenship is undoubtedly demanding of you. To indicate our support for the amendments tabled by the opposition groups, because at the bottom – as has already been said in the speeches in this debate – are coincidentally. We are very, very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that the People's Party denies the professionals of nutrition and dietetics of our country the opportunity they had to create a voluntary school, democracy, parity and, of course, better. For sure, if the People's Party actually has so much commitment – as the rapporteur has said here – to this collective, the Government of Feijóo should not remain in the creation of a school that, as we say to the Greeks, "doesn't cost you money", should not it, but rather should work to introduce this activity into the health centres, since, without doubt, it is no longer health care. By the way – as I have said but I repeat again – it is already done in many other countries in Europe, where 50% of the professionals in nutrition and diet work within hospital centers, although in Galicia we are far from that, because Mr. Feijóo is clear that he prefers those "questioners" – it will be politically correct – catering from friendly companies, say what they say, Mr. People's Party's rapporteur, in this debate of this law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u77	Thank you. People's Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u78	Thank you, President. We continue to insist on the evidence of the opposition's attempt to block this law. We're constantly in a hurry and in a hurry. But there's a whole amendment and 31 amendments to a bill that has 35 lines of the operative part. There are 31 amendments to 35 lines. The arguments to refuse the approval of this law which maintains the opposition are, of course, difficult to bear. In the matter of volunteering or not, we have to say and repeat that it is a state competition, and that the only thing we risk is the law. We understand, in addition, that BNG does not accept that. Well, it's his ideological stance: not to accept that the law is made, that it is made by the Socialist Party, and it exists. In 2006, when the laws of the two-party government schools were passed, there was no such law and it could be voluntary or compulsory. By way of exception, it became compulsory for all laws, including those of the jewelers. I, in truth, don't see much coherence with postures. We believe that volunteering is clearly expressed in the writing of the article. I will read it again – I read here Mr Ron – "The exercise of the profession of dietitian-nutritionist with a single or main professional home in the Autonomous Community of Galicia will require the incorporation into the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia when it establishes a state law." I don't think he offers any kind of doubt that he's volunteering. I think there's no doubt about it. When the Congress and Senate discussed the Law of the Council, Mr. Llamazares and Mr. Iglesias, Member and Senator of the United Left Group, they presented an amendment on the mandatory collection of dietists-nutritionists that was supported by the Socialist Party. No more comments. And on the subject of general interest, I don't have much more to say. It is a necessary condition for the justification of school creation. I am curious, for example, that at the Phoenician meeting, there would be widespread general interest, if accepted. Let's go to the dictionary and, in the dictionary of the Royal Galician Academy, it does not appear, but if it appears in the dictionary of the Royal Spanish Academy, and says: Address 1. Preponderant and dominant. 2. Said a disease or symptom of greater incidence or frequency. 3. Lasting, persistent. I'd like to know which of these three definitions meant to apply to the text. It seems to us too, certainly incoherent to your stance on this subject. The laws of Andalucía, Castile-Leon and Murcia – the last ones that were approved – were passed by the Socialist Party and the United Left, and clearly reflected the public interest of this school. I would recommend that you read the speech of your spokesperson in the Autonomous Community of Murcia. I'd like to see you defend the public interest in this activity with much more vehemence than any other party. And finally... – you don't seem to like it, well! – we can't accept your amendments on equality and parity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They already said here that we commented that the College – the news we had – was eminently feminine and could have difficulty achieving a strictly parity commission in the management commission. Even in the other laws there is no parity at all, in those three laws that don't want me to repeat. In none of them is parity absolutely for nothing. These are the main obstacles that the opposition puts to the approval of this law by a majority that we would like it to be unanimous. We think that the law is well developed, that it is similar in all other Greek laws of professional schools and the laws of other autonomous communities, and we cannot understand that they do not give their affirmative vote for the reasons they expose. We'd like you to change your posture, but of course it's impossible. You will explain to the professionals and representatives the reason for your vote, and will clarify to the Greeks and to the Greeks why they are not in favour of creating a school that will contribute to improving your health, and to avoiding cases of so common professional intrusion and bad praxion, unfortunately, in this field. The creation of College we think it's important. Diseases such as diabetes, metabolic syndrome and many other diseases are serious and deserve their control by expert staff. Fighting intrusion and promoting the health of the citizens of Greece is an important task in which we all have to help. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u79	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Before suspending the session, please inform your lordships, although they are already known to the spokespersons of the various groups, the approval of the meeting of the Economic and Industrial Councillor at the request of the Board, document No. 37794. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4 p.m., 4 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u80	Good afternoon. They're taking over their seats. Let's restart the session. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists for the reform of the Galician Parliament Regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u81	You have the floor, for the presentation of the bill, Mr José Luis Méndez Romeo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u82	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, modern political doctrine is considering that the main function of parliaments, of legislative chambers, is the function of control over the executive to the detriment of the traditional legislative function, which today is almost monopolistic by the executive, at least in the continental parliamentary system that is closest to us. In a famous work on the institutions of the modern State of Philip Petttit, a well-known American academic, studies and defends that the camera is a place of discussion including and interactive, the place where representatives should argue about the public good or shared interests, avoiding arguing – says the author partisanly or carelessly. Pettit, for example, puts emphasis on institutions that usually here, in parliamentary work, are a little faded. For example, the role of parliamentary committees, where they tell us that when they use public hearings, when they use the negative selection of candidates, dictatorships, appointments, the hearing of social interests, they become real forums that educate citizens in modern political practice. We have not come so far in this Parliament, but it is clear that Pettit's reflection, even from political theory, is pointing to some of the eves of current parliamentaryism and also a possible path to the future. The reform of the Rules of Procedure is a classic of parliamentary life, it is at the level of the abolition of parliaments and the reform of the Senate; that is, in that kind of debate over which there are enough statements, a lot of documentation and, however, no practical position to modify the status quo. It could be said that in practice these are matters on which there is a tacit consensus. In the area of the Galician Parliament, the long-term stability of the last legislation, which is always made up of three parliamentary groups, has set up a virtually unchanged system of operation. At present, with five groups, parliamentary positions designed at another time are being strained by recurring debates about regulatory problems. The Socialist Group has on many occasions defended the need for flexible frameworks for the functioning of political life and has given its support to all timely measures aimed at promoting the agility of debates and the climate of coexistence within the House, but time is making it clear that the regulation needs alterations, which between its 166 articles, 8 complementary provisions and two dozen interpretative agreements, a part of them no longer fulfil its objective. Other parliamentary groups would probably add other articles to the school we present today. We are open to considering them under the premise that reform is relatively urgent. This proposal has now been drawn up with this perspective, in order to encourage that the next session may prevent repetitions of debates and situations which have been judged anachronistic or overcome. I would like to recall that the current regulation was adopted initially in June 1982, there are 33 years, with a broad consensus of 90% of the House. I note for the small history of that vote, supported by the groups of UCDs, Socialists and People's Alliance, the vote in favour of who was then a Member and today President of the Government of Spain, Mr Rajoy. Then communist and nationalist groups abstained. However, the current articulation is later, from 1983, and was drawn up on the basis of proposals from the various parliamentary groups to reach a consensus of 96%. The 1993 partial reform had only the support of the People's Group. And another partial reform, driven by the Socialist Group the following year, achieved unanimity. Even in the past legislation, with the exclusive votes of the majority, a timely change was adopted to bring political participation into line with motherhood or paternity situations. The position of the Socialist Group over these 33 years has always been constant in favour of the consensus reached on this matter, which has always achieved a very broad support, and contrary to unilateral regulatory reforms, however much they had the support of the majority group. We defend on this subject, as in so many others, that the basic laws of autonomy must have a strengthened consensus. That is why we want to achieve a broad consensus again today. We are debating a proposal for the Socialist Group's law, but with the aim of the resulting law being a House law as a whole. For the same reason, it would be very negative that, if taken into consideration today, it would soon be substantially emptied of content. We are aware that it would be preferable to make up a joint Forum on the part of all groups. So we proposed last year in resolution No. 38 of the last debate on the state of autonomy, which was rejected by the majority popular. A proposal similar to the initiative of the BNG Group was subsequently rejected. Even in the Non-Permanent Commission against Corruption, there were some issues that would affect the functioning of the Regulation, but, as you know, that commission was paralysed by the majority group's decision. And more recently, even, the president of the board, in an extraordinary plenary last February about corruption, defended certain measures similar to those proposed today. We propose two types of changes in the debate that we open today. On the one hand, matters relating to the improvement of political debate and the role of control. Secondly, procedural aspects of the operation of the House. As for the first, the improvement of political debate and the search for a debate of more rigor and height, we include: Possibly establish investigative committees at the request of 1/3 of the House. By taking a little of Philip Pettit's reflection, the presence in the research committees of civil society, experts, officials, this contrast of opinions has an extraordinary value for the society we represent here, and in fact represents a true parliament beyond walls. Faced with the current rigidity of the exclusive debate on proposals and motions, it would mean bringing civil society into the core of parliamentary activity, which is control and control – as I said – of the Executive. We also propose to enrich the processing of bills through hearings to high offices and especially affected social entities, implicitly recognizing that the laws are drafted by the Government and that it is only for the House to perfect them, but assuming that the current unproductive procedure must be passed on to a public debate with society. I stress that a hearing procedure in the processing of bills is of no value to the balance of the majority and minority, and therefore does not question the stability of the Government or the fulfilment of its legislative program. We also propose the mandatory presence of the members of the Government when requests for documentation from groups and Members cannot be met in the course of Article 9. I must remember that, today, only in this legislation, and only as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, there are 400 unmet requests for documentation. And I must underline the practice of other cameras. In the Congress of Deputies, for example, members of the House are usually made available to complete records of matters that are required by the various groups. We also propose strengthening the role of the Committee on Petitions, so that it will be one of the areas in which maximum citizen participation is to be verified. These are some of the measures we propose, which would overcome the current rigid conception of the majority and minority, with full reproduction of themes and proposals already seen in the Commission. We propose to revitalize and boost the general political debate, which is the real reason for this House. As far as matters of improvement of the established procedures are concerned, we propose, among other things, to extend the sessions, both from September and January, so that we may decrease, from the current 90 days of inequitable period, to 40 days of that period. We intend to deepen and, at the same time, to speed up the budgetary debate. Firstly, by strengthening the mandatory appearance not only of the members of the Government, but of all the holders of the different sections which include the budget. It is incomprehensible that many of them are authentic strangers throughout the legislation in this House. In parallel, and as a counterpart, we propose to speed up the debate in plenary, avoiding the tedious repetition of what has already been discussed in the Commission. We also propose to shorten the processing periods, to prevent an interpellation from having to be presented three or four weeks in advance, and a question to the president nine days in advance. And we also include measures on transparency in the Members' and Members' regime. Following this socialist initiative, a bill for the reform of the regulation was tabled by the People's Group, which, as stated in its explanatory statement, is a simple reform. In fact, it only aims to include the transparency portal, something which is required by state legislation; to modify the deadline of one of the sessions; to simplify the interpellations; and to restrict the questions to the President on a restrictive basis. Ladies and gentlemen, this group is aware of its relative position in the current composition of the House, but it is also aware of its responsibility. We have traditionally held a position with regard to the Rules of Procedure and also to the customary uses of the House, but that does not prevent us from defending a firm position of improvement in the political debate with initiatives like the one we are presenting today, or with initiatives such as those presented in the general policy debate, in the impetus of the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption or in other bills. This proposal is constructive, ambitious and also attentive to the evolution of contemporary parliamentaryism. There is a window of opportunity in this debate: the hope of overcoming the traditional division between government and opposition in a common arena, to get a more representative institution. I want to ensure, in that sense, that if this proposal is taken into consideration today, this group will maintain a constructive position as far as possible, knowing that the architecture of the institutions is rarely constructed ex novo and that it usually takes place through successive approximations; with regard to the work done by our ancestors in this House, but also with the responsibility of being obliged to propose improvements and broaden the participation framework of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in summary what we propose in this modest bill that we would like you to have an axillary process in order to come into force, if there is consensus, in the next session. I remember that the debates on evasa, on the limits, of the current regulation have been truly overwhelmingly reproduced, and there is the Journal of Sessions to check it out. And therefore the difficulties and limits are omnipresent for all parliamentary groups. I hope that with the contributions of all of us, we can enrich this initial text and, indeed, come to have a regulation, but for the next 33 years, at least if for the next legislation, which is what everyone commits to us all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u83	Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u84	Good afternoon to all and to all. Thank you, President. This Parliamentary regulation reform law, which is taken into consideration today's debate, has a number of amendments which this honourable Member applauds and which are directed at speeding up parliamentary procedure, such as point 21, 23, 24 of which promote transparency, point 1, 4, 2, 6, 7, 9, among others; to encourage citizen participation, point 8 and 15; to increase control of the Government, as it says in the explanatory statement: to promote the presence of persons holding the councils in the event of not providing the required information. I agree. I also agree to facilitate the setting up of research committees, as well as the increase in ordinary sessions and the possibility of requiring from the Galician Council the documentation necessary for the legislative work. And I welcome a mechanism for controlling the assistance and work of the honourable Members, as set out in point 3, which does so only in the sense of full-time assistance, which I think is insufficient, because I believe that parliamentary work should be measured by the initiatives presented and defended, either in full or in committee. In this way the figure of the Florentine Member would be avoided, a figure which is sufficient in the majority parties. It's a figure that attends as a stone guest to the debates and is limited to voting according to party discipline. What I do not share – and you did not quote it in your exhibition report – is point 5, which adds a new article 26bis), which tries to narrow, or at least limit, the rights of Members of the Joint Group. This article you present, a cut and take from the introduction to the Madrid Assembly on 9th of 10th of the year 2009 by the PP, being spokesperson David Pérez, in order to create the figure of the member not affixed following the accusation of three Members of the People's Party in Gürtel, seeks to penalise Members who for whatever reason are obliged to leave their group. And here we would go into the cansino and the old debate that which belongs to the minutes of the elected Members, the parties or the people? The Constitution, which guarantees the independence of the honourable Member, provides that the record is of the elect person. So the parties draw up statutes that contradict constitutional rights for greater control than they consider theirs: the minutes. If what matters and votes are the acronyms, I invite political parties and coalitions to draw up lists of numbers and not names and faces of people. So, after the vote, the minutes could be given according to how they feel about organic managers. There are many examples in the recent history of democracy. The Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the High Court of Justice – and now if I am going to Andalucía – considers contrary to constitutional doctrine the agreements adopted by the Bureau of the Ceuta Assembly, and the Speaker's Board of Auditors of the Autonomous Chamber, to limit the powers and obligations of the non-attached Madam Fatima Hamed, who abandoned the Caballas coalition, which resulted in an election in the 2011 autonomy. And the court concludes: whether or not the honourable Member receives the confidence of his or her constituents, and that enables him to exercise his or her duties in favour of that trust, and cannot be regarded as worse than the rest of the House. The affected person receives this sentence as a great political news. It is a triumph of dignity over the peaceful evil of the dome, and a triumph of the Constitution about the decisions – often personal and arbitrary – of the organic leaders of a political party. And it can happen – and it happens – that the honourable Member is obliged to leave the group for ideological coherence, as is the case of the Socialist Member in the Catalan Parliament, breaking the democratic discipline of vote in the sovereign consultation process. In addition, the consequence of his proposal would be to maintain, as a legal imperative, the economic benefits of a Member in part-time, and consider this Member not to be the economy for such spending. To deal to a large extent with the problem of transfuguism – they are careful that I do not know what will happen in Catilla-La Mancha –, abandonment or expulsion of members of the political groups by which they compete, it would be much more effective – according to my opinion and that of many institutional and representative policy experts – to change the system of electing lists closed to open lists; a system that is much more attractive to citizens and much more democratic, since the electorate is the one who would exactly form government or would be representative, without having the limit set by the parties on closed lists. Given that democracy – which is not party- seeks or should seek greater citizen participation, it would be necessary to think about ending up with the closed lists configured by the parties. There's no need to be afraid, ladies and gentlemen. There are many democratic countries, such as Finland and Switzerland, which have been applying this system for a long time and this has not led to chaos or anarchy, much less. The closed list system favors bipartisanism, and perhaps – or worse – is what you want to protect, because by being party lists, instead of independent candidates, your votes will be split proportionally by applying the law D’Hont, which divides seats between groups that get more than 5% of the votes. So, ladies and gentlemen, with this system of closed lists there is a huge minority that remains unrepresented. In the constructive line that you put out in your intervention – I'm also on that constructive line – I hope that it will be approved to take into consideration and then draw up the amendments that we consider relevant. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Members and Members. The crisis of parliamentaryism is one of the hallmarks of our times. We could discuss their causes in this House. From our point of view, this crisis is a symptom of the crisis of democracy itself, because of the absence of sovereignty; in the Spanish state, because of the practical annulment of it; and in the case of Greek because of its total and absolute denial, by the non-recognition of the Greek people as a subject of sovereignty in their own land. Parliaments, formally, are the depositors of people's sovereignty, but that's wet paper when, at the time of truth, decisions come to us from Madrid or Brussels, or when the governments of the People's Party who actually command Ibex 35. But beyond this reflection, the crisis of parliamentaryism also gives rise to other causes. For example, an annoyance operation, which prevents further debates with the necessary agility on matters that have often been taking the attention of the street or the debate on networks and the media for many days. Is it, for example, welcome that the questions to the President should be recorded nine days in advance of their debate in this House? And, of course, this crisis also contributes to the investment of supremacy between the Lexislav and the Executive; Parliament's submission to the Government; the practical annulment of Parliament by the majority that supports the Government. In this legislation, without going further, we have enough examples: the refusal by Mr Feijó's system to appear; the refusal also to answer the questions posed to him; the Government's refusal to provide the documentation or information requested by parliamentary groups; the veto on the creation of research committees; the blockade of existing ones; and so on. Look, the BNG Parliamentary Group – they have security – is not paid to Parliament's despising. We exercise our self-esteem as a people, defend self-government, also demand that our institutions be dignified and valued. But in order to dignify Parliament, it is necessary to revitalize it, so that Parliament is this living House that all Greeks and Greeks feel as themselves. Finally, in order for Parliament to truly be the central institution of our self-government; the central institution of the Galician political life. To achieve this, it is essential to reform the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. As I said, in order to achieve this – among other things – it is essential to reform Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but not so, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, because you are trying to take advantage of this proposal to shield a bipartisan status that does not reflect the actual composition of this House, nor does it much less reflect the political plurality in Greek society. You try to take advantage of this proposal to shield, through the reform of the Rules of Procedure, what you have already done through the way of facts, by signing the Bureau's agreements to cut down the initiatives of the BNG and the AGE in exchange for preserving their status as a group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we share many of the proposals put forward by you in this proposal, although some may deserve nuances in their drafting or creation. We agree to lower the quorum to set up an investigation commission. Let me read this sentence textually: "I will never refuse to investigate and clarify what is not clear, so I will make a proposal: that each group has the right to promote two parliamentary committees of inquiry without needing the support of the rest of the House." Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, this is what Mr. Feijóo said when he was in the opposition. Now, on the other hand, the PP vetoes the creation of a commission on the scandal of training courses; and also vetoes its abstention, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, which creates an investigation commission on the crash of England. So we are in favour of lowering the quorum so that investigation commission can be established. We also agree with other measures, such as those aimed at strengthening transparency; to clarify more thoroughly the duties of Members; to promote the appearances of the members of the Government and the obligation to provide information; to make the time available for groups to register their initiatives and they are ready for their debate in the House; the proposal to extend sessions; or measures to promote citizen participation, however much we doubt that the most recent channel is the current Committee on Petitions. We would be more in favour of a citizen participation commission in this Parliament, so that citizens and social groups can come directly to this House and move their proposals and reflections, and we are also in favour of accompanying this measure in forms of direct democracy, direct participation, such as the Parliamentary Group of the BNG has been proposing since the beginning of this legislation. But other measures, on the other hand, we believe that at least they are questionable. For example, the changes that are proposed to be introduced into the ordering of the general policy debate on the state of the Greek nation. I am referring to the fact that the motions for resolutions have to be recorded at the latest 30 minutes after the debate with the President has taken place; that the debate with the President and the debate on the motions for resolutions should not be on differentiated agendas. And I am also referring to your proposal, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that the intervention of parliamentary groups in this debate is ordered by order of greater or lesser. Think first that politics is changing, which today is first, tomorrow may be the last. But they also think that, with the wording that you propose and with the current composition of the House, after the intervention of the president, the first group to intervene would be the People's Group. But, above all, we strongly disagree with some proposals that are in line with introducing criteria of greater proportionality in the initiative capacity of the groups. All groups must have the same rights, the same own-initiative capacity; proportionality is already established when voting. We believe that the reform of the Rules of Procedure must be used precisely to correct the deficits in democracy that exist in this House; for example, to correct situations like those experienced in the last ordinary plenary session, where, for the second time in this session, a parliamentary group has been deprived of the ability to ask the President. Therefore, if this proposal is accepted, I announce that the Galician Nationalist Block will present amendments to all these aspects. But as in any case what we are voting on today is the admission of this bill, not the final text, we are not going to hinder voting against this proposal so that it can be taken into consideration, as long as there are aspects of those we radically disagree with. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I reiterate: reform of the Rules of Procedure, yes, but not so. That's the position of the BNG Parliamentary Group. That is why I announce that we shall abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Mr Beiras has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u88	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Méndez Romeo, it doesn't seem that the executive power of this autonomy had too much interest in listening to its establishment of relations, precisely between the Lexislative and the Executive, because the blue seats are deserted. Now there's one, the vice president, who didn't come in time to listen to you. You see, a whole [...] Let's see. The explanatory statement of your bill begins by saying, "The dysfunctions of the current regulation of the Welsh House are known and are causing continuous problems." The dysfunctions of the current House regulation. This Parliament is not suffering from regulatory malfunctions, in our opinion. This Parliament is dead, or in the UVI with assisted breathing, because its essential nature is destroyed. So we're not going to resurrect him with a regulation reform. And even less if it's a partial and limited reform to some procedures, although its consideration would open up a process of contributions, given in addition to the open scale and the generosity with which the Socialist Group proposes: to put in place a process. I greatly appreciate the intellectual and scientific quality of Professor Gerardo Pisarello. I think it's one of the most lucid heads of Spanish constitutionalism in generations under 50 – he's 40 or 41 – and I think the distinction between democratic constitutionalism and oligarchic constitutionalism is key to understanding what's going on. A constitution – the 78 – drawn up in the patterns, in the matrices, of the democratic conditions of the anti-fascist phase, of the great anti-fascist moment of the post-World War, which was what led to that, and after the insertion of the Wellfare State criteria – and still reflects that – was converted into a constitution serving an oligarchy, and therefore we are in fact suffering from oligarchic constitutionalism. There's a constitution, it's not a totalitarian regime. Even for example, the parties are not abolished, there is no single party regime, but the People's Party, in the way it uses the absolute majority in all places where it is, makes the representation of citizens displayed by the other representatives disappear from the map because it works like a single party, and this House is an example of that. So it's becoming a single game, and that's the problem. The Constitution of 78 is factually repealed, at least in all the contents of its preliminary title, Title I, and even Title VIII, the famous title on the territorial organization of the State, both of autonomy of autonomy, of autonomous communities, and of municipal autonomy. Today it doesn't exist, it's been swept out of the map. So this is not remedied by reforming the Courts Regulation – it seems to me to be clear – but by restoring the vigency of the constitutional rules repealed; it is through what is necessary to restore the vigil of the Constitution of 78, or taking advantage of the opportunity to make a new constitution, distinct, and open a constitutional process. We have been suffering, for at least ten years, a deconstitutional process in the Spanish state, in Spanish society. It's deconstituted, with two variables. On the one hand, citizenship begins not to believe in the legal-political apparatus because it does not feel represented, more and more – it is explained many times – and it begins to self-organize. And on the other hand, a power, the party in power, that empty of content the basic constitutional norms, even the rules that refer to human rights, such as housing or health, violating human rights. The confluence of these two phenomena makes it, both above and below, if they are loading a regime that is dead, and therefore Parliament is dead, and we do not solve it with a reform of the regulation, which is simply a rule of operation. How can it be solved? It would be appropriate to return this House to its kind of House as representatives of the diverse and plural citizen set. It's not, it's not, it's not! Systematically the majority group applies the iron law: we are 41 in front of thirty and so many, it's over! You can already argue here, you can already exercise humor, you can already an angry, you can already do as the Beers, who was leaving the ABC like the Yeti, the horrible man of the snow. It is equally true to exercise Mr. Méndez Romeo's firm reasoning or incisive dialectics, but always cults and with enormous lucidity, Mr. Losada, for example. Or the absolute and systematic truth that touches people, Mrs. Acuña. It doesn't matter. A Parliament where the People's Group, with an absolute majority, is able to vote on the death sentence of hepatitis C patients, how can we say that this is a Parliament? He's dead before the hepatitis C patients die before Parliament. He killed himself that day. Of course, the People's Group has committed suicide! Citizens are also starting to charge you! That of thinking that the people are idiots we never believe that we are left-handed. No, you don't know anything. [[Murmurs.]] We can despise elected representatives for a people who happen to deceive them and are also fools. Well, that's right, and don't respect those fools, but we never miss the people about it! Or that maximum, right?, so known that: "You can fool everyone, everyone, some time; some people all the time, but not everyone all the time." But I'm going out of... there's no more than two minutes left and fifty seconds left. Resetting his sovereign position in the genuine power hierarchy of a parliamentary democracy, a parliamentary regime, and not a presidential regime; and pluralist, not a majorityist or a bipartisan; his role as a legislative chamber of the common citizen, instead of a resonance box in the service of executive power, i.e., the servant domain of the Board. And if Junta is the Moncloa's domain maid, and Moncloa is the domain maid of the Fourth Reich, which now turns out she doesn't say only the Beers, which Mr. Mélenchon says too, of the European Union of the Kaiserina Merkel, then we'll already be the domain maid of the domain maid of the domain maid of the domain maid of the domain maid of the domain, and we're finally nothing, we're reduced to ashes, and that doesn't remedy the reform of the regulation. Sometimes even the most extensive contents almost look like a regulation on the discipline of Members and Members. I believe that it is good for us to be self-disciplinary, and I say it in the medieval sense, in the direction of Opus Dei, to give beatings behind – sorry for Opus Dei – and the custom of the cylics and the seven-tailed cat of the countermasters of the British Royal Navy applied to the citizens of the common. In any case, we would recover the original 1993 regulation prior to the counter-reform of Fraga in 1993, the one which cost me to be expelled from this House and deprived of my rights for the two key months so that it would be approved with a more vote, a more scandal than those of the opposition, by a difference vote, that reform with which the demouche started. Then, at the age of two, the Constitutional Court ruled in my favor. It wasn't worth anything because it didn't cancel what should have been cancelled, what had been approved under those conditions, counter-revolutionary reform. Our vote, to finish. The PP can vote in favour, don't trust it!, to then turn it around to the reform proposed by you and do everything the opposite. That's what he always did, whenever he could, always! So, if he always did, he's very risky, he can be a reckless fearsome, bet he won't do it now. But what are we going to vote for? If the PP votes against everything I said, our vote in favour is useless, and if the PP votes in favour, which is what the scissors have for the mango, our vote for the mango is superfluous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u89	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u90	If on the one hand we want to be consistent with the analysis we have made of the context, of the sense that you have, of what you can remedy and of what you cannot remedy, and there is that risk, of course we are: "I do not leave or make a king, but on the other hand, I help my lord." Who is my lord? People who are rebelling, the ongoing civil rebellion that some of us predict and believe we don't. And now they're full of fear, filled with fear from top to bottom, because they have the days counted politically!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Pedro Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second debate we have in the forthcoming legislation specifically focused on reforming the Rules of Procedure. The first was, in fact, an initiative by the Galician Nationalist Block, a non-law proposal discussed in the plenary session of December 3, 2014. A debate in which the Block basically proposed, as it did today, a request for exactly the same treatment of all parliamentary groups in terms of the right of initiative to propose to its committee and plenary debate, in which we all found that both the Joint Group and the AGE were in favour of such initiatives, while the Socialist Group was not, and I would like to recall the words of the spokesman who spoke in that debate, Mr Caamaño, who said that we do not agree with this equality that is intended to be given to the groups; proportionalitys have to exist because they are part of the political logic. Another thing is equal rights, but not equality in the institution's working mechanics, and there we also wanted to make that killing with round clarity. In the light of those interventions, the Group of the People's Party, which is clear that there is no consensus on what should be the ultimate purpose of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, voted against. As we know, the proposed group voted in favour; the AGE group voted against what the PP voted against, as explained today; and the Socialist Group abstained. And, therefore, the corresponding commission has not been opened. In any case, in that debate we explicitly express our agreement on any specific issue which would allow the functioning of this House to be improved and which could be brought to Parliament. As, by the way, we did – as we also remembered here – with the reform to allow the vote of pregnant women, which in that debate was despised as opportunistic, in a completely inappropriate way, by the spokesman who defended that proposal not by law. [[Applause]] The fact is that since then there has been important changes in parliamentary dynamics. One of the groups formed at the beginning of this legislation suffered the abandonment, first, of a Member and then of a Second Member. And the problem was precisely the defence of the rights of a parliamentary group formed as a result of the free decision of two members of another parliamentary group to abandon it. Of course, this group will always defend the rights of Members – of all Members – therefore, what we are not going to do is to stand aside from what the rule sets out in the defence of the rights of any Member, whether of the Joint Group or of any group. That is to say, it is paradoxical to defend the rights of all Members of the House and at the same time protest because AGE does not have a question for the president or because it does not have a group that one represents, and yet forgets to protest when another group of the House does not have a question; which is not done, clearly distinguishing itself, in an absolutely disproportionate way, between the rights of Members, the rights of groups and the rights that we all have to respect as members of this House. Indeed, the change that there was, the change that there was, was as a result that some early legislating agreements that transplanted the agreement of the past legislation, so the opposition was entitled to present three interpellations in each plenary, six non-law proposition, three questions to the president and six questions – three of them urgent – to the Government was accommodated to the new circumstance of the eruption of a new group. From that point on, the accommodation of the Joint Group has been attempted on several pathways. Even today it has been mentioned here that the status of members of the Group has been removed and that it has led to the status of non-members to those people who have left the Gaga de Left Alternative Group. And all of this actually led to the dynamics of the agreements of the beginning of the legislation being broken. This group tried to fix the problem all the way through. A first offer was made public, which allowed the possibility that the Galician Nationalist Bloc – which was the group that felt worse – to present a question to the president in full, and that proposal was rejected. They requested an additional plenary session. It was agreed to extend the session period so that there was a fuller one more, but it was insisted that they should have the same right of initiative as the other House groups. BNG did not accept any of the proposals made to it, and I must admit that this was not the behaviour of the other groups of this House, in particular the Socialist Group. From there, there was a conflict in which they say the People's Party numbs the opposition. The only ones who were physically self-absorbed in this plenary session were some members of this House, the distinguished representatives of the nationalist group of the Nationalist Block Galego. The only ones who refused to ask the president a question and therefore silenced themselves were the members of the German nationalist group. And the only ones who celebrated in the surrounding park at the hemicycle were the members of the German nationalist group, who refused to participate and exercise their right to participate in this House. As you will understand, in this situation most people have a certain perplexity because they face the next paradox. When the Popular Group was in the opposition, one could ask a question from the opposition to the president and now three can be asked. The People's Group presented two interpellations to the Government, now three. There were two GNPs, six of them now. Two questions were put to the Government, now the Government is answering six questions from the opposition. Eighty percent of the initiatives taken in this plenary – just as in the last rounds – are opposition proposals, and despite these figures, it turns out that the People's Party numbs the opposition. As you will understand, there is no one who understands this, especially when, in addition, we are far exceeding – very broadly – the regulation which must be the control shift, the control times that have been established by that Regulation since its origins in the 1980s. Well, neither do we silence the House nor slow down our criticisms, and even assume unfair criticism with education that we do not deserve and that they exceed parliamentary courtesy, and we do it practically in every plenary session. So we don't have any complex to defend what this House is doing and how this House is working, because the opposition to the Government has never had as much initiative and it has so much control capacity as in this legislation. It is true that there is a fundamental discrepancy over proportionality. It is true that the Constitutional Court has clearly pronounced itself in various judgments which state that equality between parliamentary groups cannot mean that all groups, regardless of their number of members, must have the same position in all proceedings of the House, because that would be at the expense of equality between Members; and since there are parliamentary groups with figures of different seats, without any nuance, recognize without any equality between groups, it would be a serious breakdown not only of equality between Members, but also of the very existence of democracy. That's what the Constitutional Court says. We know there's this fundamental conflict, but the truth is, things have changed. The fact is that the Socialist Party had abstained at its own time and is now presenting a bill. It is true that some of the aspects of that bill we share. So what we are doing is, first of all, regret to have reached this point; it was not because the People's Group did not try to reach agreement on the right of initiative at the plenary sessions and on the committees that we are in this situation. Secondly, it is true that the situation is going back to a certain unsufferable point by the duration of the plenary, which is totally anomalous in comparative law; and we have even heard the members of the opposition groups, in relation to municipal plenarys, saying that they cannot be done full marathons. And finally, what we're going to do is vote in favour of processing, trying with our amendments to reach the broadest possible agreements. That is, today, rediscovering Philip Petttit – who was the chief philosopher of Mr. Zapatero Rodríguez, former President of the Government – we are going to dialogue. We have some examples of possible agreement on the reform of the regulation, most recent at the end of last year in the Andalusian Parliament, with the Socialist Party in the Government and the People's Party in the opposition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here we have some issues that are included, which are overwhelmed by the Socialist Party's initiative and which we will amend. But it is possible, with the best of intentions, to seek an agreement as wide as possible. I insist that we vote in favour of the reform of the Galician Parliament's regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u93	Replica round of the parliamentary group that is the author of the bill. You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. I appreciate the constructive position of the Mixed Group and take it into account also for the majority group. A well-known scholar of current politics, Michael Ignatieff, on one occasion, proposed to abandon the university olympus and get closer to political life. They proposed nothing less than to present himself to the election as Prime Minister of your country, who was Canada, and accepted. He went to the Prime Minister and the polls left him in the opposition, as leader of his group in the opposition, and also in extraordinary difficult conditions, with which his transit for parliamentary life was anomalously complicated. But even though he did not have the support of the voters, he did leave some memories of those years in political life – which in translated title would be Blood and ash – extraordinarily interesting. It makes a bitter criticism of the functioning of parliamentaryism, of the evasiveness of political life, of internal suffering within political organizations, and, ultimately, of the unpleasant fact that often it is the personal life of the members of public life. But at the same time, it makes a lot of hope to the value of good politics, and it emphasizes, despite its bad experience – perhaps also the wealth of views that gave it that experience – the meaning of parliamentary life to solve people's problems. Today there is widespread, widespread social criticism – such as the CIS surveys – against politics at all levels. Not only because the citizen's dominant perception is that it is an intrinsically corrupt activity; it is because the dialectic of majority-minority and lack of agreements is not understood by citizens, as they don't often understand the abstract debate, so common in political life, or even the difficulties of understanding that give rise to this kind of microcosms where citizens consider that politics is developing, very far from their interests. We have some evidence, too. We have the evidence today that there are problems that will not be solved by themselves; that – I feel to disagree again with the representative of the Government here – corruption is not a problem of rotten apples, but rather a structural problem that affects all political organizations in all Western countries and that we must therefore address it; that citizens must probably be empowered and limited to the scope of political parties; that probably – as Mrs Churches said – we must open the electoral lists as the political structures themselves must be opened and democratized. But we also have evidence that only politics can improve politics. Madison said that the curse of democracy is the political parties, but that the parties are also the safeguard of freedoms. And in view of this, it's not worth the simpleness of nicking as caste and then running to see if the caste is replaced. They're not worth those solutions because political parties are indispensable to vehicle citizen participation, to look for solutions and, of course, to channel discrepancies. We must focus primarily on improving the institutional framework where we belong, and in this case it is in the Galician Parliament. If I had the perception – with all due respect – that we are in a dead chamber, I would immediately resign, because there are more interesting things to do in life than to be where, precisely, there is no life. But if we think it's possible to improve... – the last thing I need is the applause of the ladies of the majority – – don't get upset – If we think it's possible to improve the representation of citizens, if we think it's possible to improve the balance of powers, if we think it's possible to impose counterweights, we have to do it in areas where we have to act. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] I am aware that this debate begins with a vote that will probably be similar – but worse – to what it will have at its end. I mean, as with the Senate reform, the reform of the parliaments, or the reform of the Constitution, beyond the noise, beyond the noise, which we do in public life, there are no conditions for an agreement, for a consensus, like what existed four decades ago. It's an ejaculation, but it's reality, and against it it only needs to be improved as far as possible. As we have said, with that spirit we will address this reform without presuming what the final outcome should be. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u95	Thank you very much. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u96	So we started voting on the legislative texts. First of all, we are voting on amendments to the draft legislation on the improvement of the territorial structure of Galicia of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Ditam, drawn up by Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Glandery and Mountains, of the draft Law on Improvement of Galicia's Agrarian Territorial Structure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u97	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting G.P. amendments. by Commission 7th, Agriculture, Food, Ganderioa and Montes, of the draft legislation on improvement of the agricultural structure of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u98	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Voting G.P. amendments. by Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Glandery and Mountains, of the draft law on improvement of the land structure of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u99	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting G.P. amendments. of Galician Socialists to the Ditam, drawn up by Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Glandery and Mountains, of the draft Law on Improvement of Galician Land Structure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u100	We voted for the committee's ruling. Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Gandary and Mountains voted on the draft Law on improvement of the agricultural territorial structure of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, the Law on the Improvement of Galicia's Agrarian Territory Structure is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u101	We then vote on the amendments to the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. We'll start with the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Ditam, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u102	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to the Ditam, prepared by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u103	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left au ditame, prepared by Commission 1a, Institutional, of General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u104	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the dictatorship, prepared by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u105	Finally, we shall vote on the committee's statement. Vote of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law on the creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 2; abstentions, 30. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Act establishing the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u106	Finally, we are voting on the proposal for a law of the Galician Socialists Parliamentary Group for the reform of the Galician Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists for the reform of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; votes against, 8; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. The adoption of this bill is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u107	Yes, Mr. Jorquera? Tell me, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u108	I would like to speak briefly under Rule 94.3 of the Rules of Procedure – for the regulation has not yet been reformed at the moment – which states that, when the meaning of the vote announced in a debate at the time of the vote is changed, there is a right to explain why the sense of vote has changed. So, very briefly, I mean that good understanding is enough words. It is clear from Mr Puy's statement that it is intended to take advantage of this proposal for a reform of the regulation in order to regulate the cuts which have been made in this legislation, in order to prevent the right to intervene in the interventions to all parliamentary groups. And all this, with the complicity of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u110	Hence the vote against the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u111	We continue with the development of the agenda, with the point of motions. G.P. motion. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of natural parks
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u112	Amendments to this motion have been tabled by the Socialist Group and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u113	You have the floor, to formulate the motion, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u114	Thank you, President. I greet the Courel people who are in the gallery, welcome and welcome. The international division of work is today that some countries specialize in winning and others lose. The mode of production and the class structure of each place were successively determined from outside by its incorporation into the universal gear of capitalism. And each one was assigned a function, always for the benefit of the system and the metropolis. For those who perceive history as a competition, the delay and misery of certain places and countries are nothing but the result of their own failure. But reality shows that those who win get rich and progress because of what these countries, in this case Galicia, have lost, lost and will lose. In my opinion, this is what is happening in the Courel: converted into market goods by the belts of the Courel saw, they feed the multinational allies. There will be nothing left in the greenhouse, only the holes in the excavations; and small isolated villages, impoverished, incommunicado, decapitalized and with very serious infrastructure and services problems will be unattractive so that people bet on having a project of life in them. Thus, the villages of Courel will lose population until they reach the phantom figure to which they are condemned by abandonment; they will destroy everything they want and will inflexibly condemn to emigration and poverty the inhabitants of this area according to supposed escalmatory cutting progress that is alien. Centuries of understanding between humans and their environment, which have generated a singular and exemplary environment, will disappear and there will be no remedy. I'm sorry I'm being apocalyptic, but that's how I feel. You are told, ladies and gentlemen – and the counsellor also said in the interpellation – that Coruel already has the maximum protection. True, it will not be by protection figures: Natura 2000 Network, Place of Community Importance, Area of Special Protection of Natural Values, Landscape Painting or Point of Xeological Interest of International Importance. But all these protection figures are not going to stop Coruel from depopulation or improving the living conditions or the services of the area, because no funding is provided; only restrictions, they have all the restrictions of maximum protection that constrain the agricultural work in the three best villages in the surrounding area, without getting any benefit from supporting them. They do not enjoy the advantages of promotion or the maximum budgets that would give them the most known protection figure, which is the park figure, in this case the natural park. But to declare a natural park the Courel saw must – and immediately – paralyze the concessions of new mining and wind farms in the Courel; cancel the authorization of the wind farm of the Oribio saw, in the municipality of Triacastela, in space of the Natura Network The Ancares-The Courel, because, although it has not been built, it is already approved; cancel the two new concessions provided for in the Trap saw and in the Rainforest, that take part in the Council of Courel; and eliminate the forest investments to plant pines, pyrophytic plants and allies, and that no investment can be considered according to the proper protection of a natural space, as you maintain. The Courel has an unusual forest of its own: the cascades of chestnut trees. It turns out, at least reconstructive, not to say suspicious, that the Union dislodges these bumps, while the brown processing industry imports into Galicia tons of this fruit. All of this calls for the motion put forward. I want to remind you that neither mining nor the wind industry nor the woodland create stable and sufficient work in the Courel, and we will not discuss, please, that these are activities of high impact for habitats, which is what we intend to preserve and protect and on which we intend to base the development and improvement of the greenhouse. Mining, for example, not only destroys the environment, but also damages the quality of life of the inhabitants, as many, many cases of silicosis are being discovered in the resident population. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all recognize the deterioration of the Courel, also the mayor of the People's Party, who was able to speak at the national convention of that party claiming desperate help, at the national convention! Why didn't Mr. Feijóo, President of the Board, come with what he shares? Why not your parliamentary group in the Galician Parliament? I've been looking for the initiatives presented about Coruel, and you don't have any. And, you know what? Whatever the matter, they have that opportunity, which they can take advantage of by voting in favour regardless of who promoted the initiative. That's why I want to speak positively. If what we want is to save The Courel from the dramatic situation in which he finds himself in terms of the population and the conservation of his architectural, monumental, cultural, agricultural, linguistic, landscape, ecological heritage, we must act immediately. And these are the proposals: to carry out a plan to improve the basic services of the population of this place and the infrastructure. This plan must respond to reality and not be limited to common obribs, without taking into account that Courel is a greenhouse and that, since it is considered a mountain area, should be protected by article 130.2 of the Constitution and the 1982 Mountain Agriculture Act, which developed it. It is obvious that a mountainous area requires differentiated treatment of other lands, such as those of the Quiroga Valley. Second proposed measure: a employment plan aimed at the conservation and recovery of the natural and cultural heritage, including the recovery of all villages; a employment plan with future projection for the environment and its inhabitants, which can generate an exciting project so that corals are not forced to emigrate or see their future black. These measures, these proposals in a positive way, would be amplified if they complement the natural park declaration for O Courel. The natural park declaration would make it essential to collaborate with the inhabitants since the development of the Rector Plan itself, making environmental conservation compatible with other types of forest, water and tourist uses consensual and valued through their participation in the park's advisory meeting. So far all the protections they stand for have gone to the back of their neighbours. The Natura Network Management Plan has been managed from offices; it is done by technocrats who interpret plans, but do not interpret needs or involve the population. And this same affected population is the one that considers abusive and indiscriminate the current protection imposed on the Courel. So sooner or later, you should start the relevant procedures to declare this singular, magical and emblematic greenhouses as a natural park, which, in addition to the economic, ecological and demographic advantages, would not only increase the generic restrictions of the Natura Network for the neighbors, but would realize them, and adjust territories perfectly delimited with small priority habitats, and complement that statement with improvements in infrastructure and services so that choosing to live in the Courel is attractive and a realistic option for people of all ages. I hope and wish you to approve this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u115	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u116	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the people of the Courel who today honor us with their presence in this debate and who also give more meaning to this Parliament, because, indeed, the Courel saw is not only an emblematic place from an environmental, landscape and symbolic point of view for our country. We have great poets who had in Courel one of their great inspirations and who also made this saw a national saw, symbol of our country. But I think Courel is also a symbol of how clearly there is a situation in which the lack of ability to decide about our productive sectors, the lack of capacity to have self-centered policies, leads us to a really worrying, really dramatic situation. The Courel saw occupies a much higher space than the Folgoso do Courel, I know, but I wanted to use some of this county's data as a symptom of what's happening not only in the Courel, but in a very important part of Galicia that is slowly maturing. So, in 1996 in Folgoso do Coruel, there were 1,996 people. In 2014 live 1,106. Of these, we actually have a very small proportion of children under the age of 25. We see how in the latest IGE data, in 2013 the crop balance is -16, that is, in that year in this county 0 people were born and 16 people died. When we get the demographic indicators, for example, we're told that the aging rate is 930. To me this figure didn't tell me anything, but I went and picked up Galicia's aging index – which you have to remember is one of the highest aging rates in the world – and it's 149; that is, at the Courel they have an aging index that is seven times higher than Galicia's, which is the highest in the world. So that's a clear X-ray of what's going on in this county, which, by the way, there's something more than a decade ago had 408 agricultural holdings and today it's only 76. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a situation that shows us how there is a very big problem and how it is a model of development that is based on the predation of the territory; an outdated model, a model that does not guarantee a future for this area. And we know that things can change if there's political will to be able to do it. But for that, first, we need to change our intentions and secondly, to change the model that we want to apply in areas like Courel can be. We want to abandon a model that is predatory with our territory and which also causes many times companies that simply do an extraction here but do not generate any kind of value and are therefore destroying our natural environment. We want to bet on a model that is really based on sustainability, on the protection of the territory and on the development of the potentials that, from the natural point of view and on activities that have a basis and a tradition in the Courel, but which can be modernized at the moment and be a pole of development, if they could be applied. Because we have to talk about craftsmanship, and we have to talk about the production of quality foods. So there's a whole series of questions that can be asked. And within all this, we understand that the natural park statement is an important opportunity. But for that, it is also necessary to change the prism with which the Government manages the natural parks in Galicia. We've been saying that for a long time. There's a obvious failure because if a natural park is considered to be a statement in the CEO, and a natural park has to be much more, there has to be a management model, there has to be a model of economic development, and it has to be based on neighboring participation. Without neighborhood participation, without the participation of the people who live in the Courel, it will be impossible to develop a plan. That's why we make an amendment in which we say that we change the prism with which natural parks are made, that we give participation and transparency to this whole process, because we believe that this is also the key, first, that there is a commitment that something different will be done, and, second, that we do with participation, involvement and listening, which is what people who live in that place or people or entities that have, in any case, a commitment with sustainable development of our country. We also contribute in our amendment to the need for some instruments such as the Rural Development Plan, which is a shame that is not being applied at this point, and we say that some of these funds are specifically destined to compensate people living in places where, of course, there are conditions that are not those in other types of nuclei. So if there are people who are taking care of the territory, in this case they are taking care of a place as emblematic as O Courel, they must also be compensated because they are doing a work for society that collectively we have to recognize. We, regardless of whether or not we are approved by amendments, will support this initiative, because we believe that having a live Courel also means betting for a different Galician one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all. I also want to welcome the Courel neighbors who today accompany us here, who are with us to listen to our positions and ideas about such an area, not only beautiful, but important, not only to the province of Lugo, but also to all of Galicia. The Socialists will support this motion put forward by the Joint Group. We agree that the Courel has, of course, all the characteristics and virtues to be named natural park, and we also believe that it would be beneficial for the Courel to obtain this statement. Of course it's not just a matter of getting a statement, because Courel is already a Nature Network, it belongs to the Nature Network, and it has a very high range of protection, but, despite that, we see that Coruel has a lot of problems, a lot of demographic problems. We have already given enough data on these problems of depopulation, but I just want to remember that from 2009 to 2014 they lost 10% of the population and their average age is over 58 years. With these measures, with these demographic characteristics, it is very difficult to push growth and convince people to live in this environment. He said it wasn't just a statement needed, because they have a statement from the Nature Network, and we think it's better to get to the natural park, but in what we need to be aware, especially the Government and the People's Party, is that the statements are very good, but we need policies of impulse, we need concrete goals, we need a plan of impulse and, above all, investments are needed. If the protection given to the Natura Network does not have the consequences it should have in the Courel area of population fixing, of economic growth, it is because there is no investment by the Union in these areas. So in the amendments we tabled, it is that 12% of all Feder funds received by the Galician Union are destined to the Natura Network or natural parks; that is, there is a commitment that there will really be such investment of momentum to infrastructures, because also to live in certain areas – difficult areas in many cases – if you need infrastructure, if you need schools, if you need doctors, if you need roads, because if you don't really live there it becomes something heroic, and you can't be that way. Therefore, investments in this style and investments in productive systems. Not only does Coruel have greater economic development, not because they lack resources, which has many and very varied, but because they are not supported. He has agricultural resources, for example, chestnut. And I quote it for one reason, because, in this need for protection of the territories, I also want to remember that Castinians now need health protection, because they are suffering from a major plague. These protections, which many are global and others are particular, are really needed. He said that an economic impulse is needed to boost all the resources that The Courel has, which are many and very sustainable, and in addition to its own sustainable economy. I also want to say that the socialists in this whole process defend the jobs that are present in the mining. They're there, they're fundamental jobs that, of course, have to live together, but they can do it, in addition, with such protections. That's why we make this amendment, which I hope the honourable Member can accept, that she does not want anything else to increase or add, she would not say to enrich, because we like the motion that you present, but rather that we believe that an information policy is necessary, a policy would be informative so that all inhabitants would know of the important aids that exist to fix the population – international aid – and that, of course, these statements are not a problem or much less, but a chance; the problem is that the Government of the People's Party only uses problems and not opportunities, but they are an opportunity. So you have to increase the information that you have – you are sure – but you have to increase even more above all that you have, and the obligation of the Board to invest a percentage like 12% of the funds that come through this Natura Network. Of course, we – I insist – are going to vote favourably, and I hope that among all of us we can give the boost that The Courel needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u120	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone up there. We have already talked about the fact that our rural data and the reality of the Courel are not random, they are the result of the policies developed in this country in recent decades. The capitalist system itself tends to concentrate population in areas, to equip labour and consumers, and to desert other areas that are used to extract natural resources, regardless of the environmental impacts they produce. This is sharper in our country than – although it sounds very old – plays the role of a colony, which serves to extract cheap raw materials to send out. And we can give the data that if this country is not a colony when we analyze the data of electrical production, when we have the mountains occupied by windmills, when we have the rivers occupied by embalms and the inhabitants, for example, of the Courel pay the light, if they have it, or when they have it, at the same price as a godmother who does not have those impacts on his land. That's a cop in this country. When you insist on the mining of low-value materials, that's also a policy officer in this country. We're being robbed of our natural resources and here there's nothing left, and the transformation in this country is not taking place. This is also exacerbated by a government that collaborates with that strategy, that assumes the status of colonization and hence with policies that assume that role in this country. And so, more is involved in this pernicious circle. And the data is there. The People's Party does not bet on the territorial balance, not on the sustainability – as much as it repeats – not on the multifunctional exploitation of our environment, but on the abandonment of the rural environment, on extractive activities without the creation of value and on an economic and reductionist approach in providing services and infrastructure for these places. The data is there. Budgets: Since the arrival of the Government at this last stage, Mr. Feijóo's People's Party, there has been a reduction in nature conservation games of up to 90%. How much are there in the budgets of the Galician Union for natural parks in 2015? 4,500 euros. For Enrique Iglesias' music video, 300,000, right? I think it marks the priorities of this government. Nature Network Director Plan – in theory to protect natural spaces, for biodiversity conservation – does not increase this protection. On the contrary, it protects itself, protects itself, and gives a letter of normalcy to the expansion of mining operations. The prevalence of the Natura Network's Master Plan may generally be exceptional for compelling reasons of first-order public interest. The expansion of open-air mining remains subject to the sectoral plan of extractive activities, a plan which is not an environmental document but a document drawn up by the Mining House, as said today by the People's Valedor. Wind farms can also be installed, and Italian and American companies come to bring the benefits of the wind in these mountains, and so on. Land law: unprotect the rustic; Sectoral plan of extractive activities: the whole territory is likely to have mining exploits. Economic and biased calculation for the implementation of services in rural areas. Of course, here we should practice, if we really want territorial balance, what is called "positive discrimination." Even though in the Constitution the inhabitants and inhabitants of the Courel have the same rights as those of the Coruña, do they really have the same rights as one of the Coruña in this country? No, not in this country. It's very expensive to make schools in areas like the Courel, of course. Of course, it's expensive, and then we close schools because there's not enough children and we're obviously going to aggravate that pernicious circle. Do the inhabitants of Coruel have the same health rights as the inhabitants of Coruña? No, no, no, no. Do you have the same rights to have a leisure or a leisure as an urban resident? No, no, no, no. Do they have the same transport and infrastructure as a city dweller? No, no, no, no. Obviously, if we pursue these policies, we will achieve the same results. And, we've already said, other policies are possible. This is not by divine grace. There are other protected spaces in the Spanish state – I can set examples in Euskadi, I can put examples in Catalonia, protected spaces that have systematically increased their population over the last twenty years – but, yes, in these natural parks there are compensations for limitations of use, there are compensations for not being able to exploit forest systems in the same way as elsewhere, there are compensations for the livestock, there are indirect compensations for the inhabitants of this place, there are millions of investments in these places, which is not done here. Clearly there are possibilities to do things differently, but it seems that the People's Party doesn't opt for it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u121	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I greet also affectionately and welcome, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, the Courel neighbours who have the kindness to accompany us this afternoon. It is up to me today, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to set our political position on this motion, which brings the cause of the debate at the last meeting on 26 May. I will try to lay down, in the shortest time I have, the position contrary to our group to which your lordship, Mrs Iglesias Sueiro, proposes and today we bring the debate to this House. By going to the bottom of the matter, without further delay, I will refer to the measures of greater transcendence that the group you represent intends to be approved. As for the first one, we must point out that for a space to be declared a natural park and therefore integrate into the network of natural parks in Galicia, it is necessary to meet two premises: that it contributes to the conformation of the network of natural parks as soon as characteristic ecosystems are not present in spaces already declared parks or unique features that make it worthy of their declaration; and in addition the natural park must have a broad social consensus. In this way, as the honourable Member replied to the honourable Member's reply on May 26, the debate on the declaration of the Courel saw as a natural park will be dealt with in close dialogue with the local population at the right time and following objective criteria. Since then, the Government of Galicia, Madam, is open to address the incorporation of new areas into the network of natural parks in Galicia at the right time. And, of course, in that process, the Courel saw will also be evaluated. However, let me remind you that in the past there have been two initiatives for your statement: the first, in 2001; and the latter, in 2008, driven by the Bipartite. Two attempts that were frustrated and didn't succeed because of social rejection. With regard to your second request, Your Honor, I am convinced that you know perfectly well that no wind farms assisted in the 2010 competition are located within the space of the Natura Network, so it makes no sense to urge the cancellation of any concession. It clearly says Law 8/2009 of December 22, in its Article 31, whose reading is omitted for lack of time. As far as mining is concerned, the Government of Galicia is betting on the sustainable development of the economy, which is a guarantee for the future and which, in the particular case of mining, allows a modern, safe and environmentally compatible activity. The guarantees and conditions for this activity are set out in Law 3/2008, of 23 May, on the management of Galician mining, in Article 37 thereof, and which, as they may know, was drawn up and approved by the two-party Government; a government, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, is not suspicious of what it was then and today remains the majority group of this House. They should not forget, in any case, that in Galicia the mining sector generates nearly 7,000 direct jobs and 1.11% of our gross domestic product. When it comes to, Your Honor, forest investments in certain species and the prohibition of others, I have to tell you, Mrs Churches, that revitalization and recovery of the casseros' sacks is being one of the Government's work lines, and it will also be in the coming years, according to the forecasts set by the Natura 2000 Network's Director Plan for this space. With regard to the economic valuation of the Courel, we remind you, Madam, that the Council of the Rural Environment and the Sea has invested in the Courel and its region more than 19.1 million euros between 2009 and 2014. Regarding road infrastructure, we inform you that in recent years the Government of Greece has also made various investments in the area, amounting to several hundred thousand euros, in maintenance tasks, etc. In the area of housing, they invested in the municipalities of Folgoso do Courel, Quiroga and Pedrafita, in the various lines of action driven, more than 700,000 euros, and in the improvement of water supply, sanitation and purification systems – I don't know what grace I'm saying, but at the end of the day – interventions were carried out in these three municipalities worth nearly 1.5 million euros. Finally, I must point out to you, Mrs Iglesias, that in relation to the employment plan that you demand, you should take into account the more than 100 million euros of the Youth Employment Plan, than you have already benefited more than 48,000 – I suppose these 48,000 boys and girls will not be so funny that you criticize the employment plan, but at last –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u123	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u124	If I may, I have listened with respect. If you had done the same thing, I'd thank you forever. He said more than 48,000 boys and girls have benefited, and this program also has an impact on the Courel, or the 10 million long-term unemployed program, or the 70 million euros for training and improving employability. And this also benefits the neighbours of the Courel, Mrs Iglesias, and those of the rest of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u125	Silence, please, silence. And go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u126	So – finished, Mr. President, thank you very much – in view of what I just exposed you, this group will reject your initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u127	Motion author group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u128	Thank you, President. Look, it's always the same. There's no way. I'm not going in a positive way, nor does it work! Look, honourable Member, the wind farm in Oribio saw I didn't say it was built. It's not built but it's already approved, that's first. Secondly, the infrastructures in the Quiroga Valley have nothing to do with the infrastructures that needs a saw, I think I explained it quite well to them at the motion exhibition. On the other hand, what do you intend to do with Courel, what are your true intentions? Let it depopulate so you can sell it to any industry or postman without opposition while they're still pushing those youth plans and rural measures that continue to be smoking. In the General Plan for Municipal Management of the Courel, currently in processing, the Mining Chamber demanded the Board to record in the plan the existence of 14 new concessions which, in time, had to be expired. It is devastating, very offensive, to attend the servitude of the current government with the wooden cluster associations linked to the People's Party, which present allegations over and over again to any sustainable development plan for the Courel. By the way, when they intend to comply with the non-law proposal adopted unanimously in Parliament in April 2013, in which the Galician Union is urged to create an economic recovery plan for the Courel based on ecological and agrarian sustainability? The counselor didn't answer me, neither did you say anything about the subject. It must be because they have nothing to answer. And, let's see, with respect to the investments that you're talking about in the sanitation network of some of the nuclei, it's true that they did. But look at what management they've done: the facilities have no maintenance and some are already pouring directly to the rivers, producing much more pollution than the replaced rudimentary black wells of the past, which is cool! The investment, of which you also told me, of 630,000 euros in habitat recovery and landscape was an excuse to inject you into Tragsa's chiringuit that money, no project was developed, no neighbors were informed, no participation, no job created. There were just a few oak trees, four trees were planted and three roads were opened that are already closed, Mr. Investments in Pedrafita and Quiroga – which are the extremes of the Courel, not the Courel saw, are the extremes – do not justify the de-investment in the Town Councils of the Courel and the middle of the greenhouse, which is mostly abandoned and isolated and does not yet have a decent communication. Let's see, you say the Courel is very protected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u130	You can hardly protect The Courel... –I'm sorry? – if there is still no sad map or plan of the situation of habitats that are intended to protect within the territory of the natural space. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that plan has already been paid, and it turns out it does not exist, it has never been drawn up. That's his management. I would say that you are waiting to preach to the Apostle to intercede for the Courel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u131	Please finish, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u132	But look – let me finish, just a second – our misfortunes are the product of history, made by humanity, and that very humanity is the one that can undo those misfortunes, and on that path we are walking, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u133	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u134	That hope is what sustains us, and we will continue to demand and continue to fight and we will continue to love Galicia. Nothing else. Many thanks to the groups that support the motion. I accept the amendments. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u135	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the project of real decree so as to regulate the general characteristics of the tests of final evaluation of primary education, compulsory secondary education and Bachelorate, known as "real decree of revalids"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u136	Two amendments were tabled to this motion: one from the People's Parliamentary Group and the other from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u137	Mr. Pombo has the floor for the defense of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, neighbours and neighbors who are with us in Parliament, good afternoon. At the Parliamentary Plenary on 27 and 28 May, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, I made an appeal to the Education Counsellor on the intentions of the Education Council regarding the revalid calls, contemplated in the draft of the royal decree governing the final assessment tests of Primary, Secondary and More Bachelorate. The BNG asked the Counsellor about whether he intended to fight for the real revalid decree if they respected our country's own competences in educational matters, whether he had thought the Counsellor to fight against the recentralization of that project of real decree, whether the Counsellor had intended to defend Galicia's own educational competences in the face of the invasion of competences that it entails LOMCE and, finally, whether the Government of Greece had thought to demand the withdrawal of the nefarious project of real revalid decree. Sadly, the Counselor, as usual, did not object to the inquiry. He came to this Parliamentary House to read the same propaganda note he sent to school so that they would send it to families on the 3rd primary assessment test. I understand that you have been missed about this House, because the councillor talked nothing about BNG's interpellation, and even tried from this rostrum to minimize the protests that the educational community was developing during those days, protests that were roundly rejecting the 3rd assessment test, which was carried out on 27 and 28th of last month, protests that considered this proof a pedagogical aberration, by submitting 22,000 students to unnecessary pressure, to an assessment with uniform standards for the whole state, which was supposed to be an economic waste; that is, we spend on tests what we do not have to spend on teachers, on budget that requires Welsh education and resources. Test of evaluation that was supposed to be disauthorised by the German teacher, when compulsory education should be refused by continuous evaluation – it seems to be uninterested now. Test of 3o that assumed unnecessary tension of the student, when evaluating, according to the LOMCE curriculum, a level of 3o that did not pass through either 1o or 2o. By the way, proofs – 3rd – that were also rejected by a very important part of the families who attend public education, more than 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG Parliamentary Group today presents this motion to endorse the undebated interpellation at the last plenary session – I repeat: a motion not debated – on the draft Royal Decree so that the general features of the final evaluation tests of Primary, Secondary and Bachelorate are regulated. With this motion, ladies and gentlemen, the first claiming the BNG is to postpone the application of LOMCE in Galicia. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG opposed the approval of LOMCE, among other reasons for understanding that the revalids which it intends to promote a segregationist education system, totally classist and elitist, which seeks to exclude socially disadvantaged students from the right to education. The BNG Parliamentary Group considers that the rejection of LOMCE is generalized and its application, hurried and cheating, is a clear failure for our country's quality education. We understand that LOMCE has already been born dead, not counting on the educational community, not respecting the educational competences of our country and being an imposition of the People's Party that Galicia does not suit you. We all know that in the Congress of Members of Parliament the joint opposition has undertaken to repeal this law in the first session when it changes Parliament's composition, and, given the results of May 24, BNG believes that it makes no sense to continue its implementation, because before the end of the next school course will no longer be in force. LOMCE, by birth dead, must not be applied in our country. With the BNG motion, the second we claim is the withdrawal of the royal decree project of what we're talking about, a royal decree project that regulates the final evaluations of Primary, Secondary and Bachelor's degree. Presented last April by the Government of the State, and which, ladies and gentlemen, the BNG does not want to accept them, because we do not want to return to the revalids of frankism, we do not want Galicia to be subjected to revalid evaluators common to the entire territory of the State, which deny our country and forget our language, our history, our culture and our economy. Again, in this case too, we agree with the vast majority of the Galician educational community, which refuses to apply a primary, ESO and Bacharelato revalidas, which is an essential requirement – these revalids – to obtain the title to access the next level of education. Not evidence to report. If we read Article 16.2 clearly says: in order to obtain the degree degree in ESO, it will be necessary to overcome the final evaluation, as well as a final rating of more than 5 points over 10. And if we read article 21.2, it also says, to get the Bachelor's degree, it will be necessary to overcome the final evaluation. These revals pose to us a pedagogical aberration and intend to submit the student to standardized tests to standardize the education system under neoliberal and recentralizing parameters. They're just trying to classify the student and classify the centers. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, opposed the approval of LOMCE, since it was understood that these revalids aim to promote a segregationist education system, totally classist and elitist, and that they want – I say again – to exclude the socially disadvantaged student from the right to education. Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG demands the withdrawal of this decree, because we believe that it invades the competences of the Board, by centralizing the elaboration and content of the evidence; secondly, because to obtain the title in ESO and Bacharelate it is essential to overcome these tests; thirdly, because it means contempt for our teacher and his professionalism, given the loss of value of the evaluation continues that it has become fundamental at the time of the integral evaluation of our student. For the Parliamentary Group of the BNG – I repeat – the project of royal decree of revalids deepens in recentralisation and is particularly harmful to the public education of the Greek, especially harmful to the student with special educational needs. The Greek Government understands that it must demand the withdrawal of this royal decree, because also the vast majority of the Greek educational community is demanding the withdrawal of these revalids from our educational system, it is demanding that the Council does not apply the revalids and that it follows the decree that regulates them by invasion of competence. I'll be done, ladies. With the motion we are debating today, the third claiming the BNG is that the revalids are not applied, these final evaluations of Primary, Secondary and Bachelorate, in Galicia, assessments and revalids that will enter into operation or intend to enter the next course 2016, and those of Secondary and Bachelorate, in 2017. We understand that they should not be applied in our country, because they are very negative for the right to a public education, basic, compulsory, quality, free, secular and for all the student in Greece. We understand that these revalids are new barriers, new hurdles for the access of the student from Greek to higher education, new obstacles to access to the right to equal opportunities. We understand that the only thing these revalids want is to classify the centers and classify the students as first, second, and third-class, classification that will then condition the resources and means that these centers will count on. Nothing else. I expect the support of all groups, thank you very much and at the moment nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u139	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u140	Good afternoon to all and to all. Let's talk again about the revals. Already in the past full Left-wing Galician Alternative has made his position meridianly clear in relation to these evidences, which we of course consider, in addition to tremendously harmful to the student, absolutely useless to the educational community. A test that follows exactly what is set out in the LOMCE model, which is based on the establishment of common indicators, comparable measurements between centres, which, as set out in Article 89 and 90 of the LOMCE, paragraphs 89 and 90 of the LOMCE, are directed precisely to compare the different centres throughout the Spanish State, and which are therefore based on an obvious bias, which is to compare different educational realities based on identical items, which, from the statistical point of view is absolutely indefensible, we no longer say from the educational point of view. A model of education and a model of deeply fordist evaluation, right?, in the sense that students are intended to be submitted at the same time, to the same stimulus, trying to produce the same result, as if education was a sort of assembly chain, in which all students are subjected, and that, of course, once the quality of the pieces is evaluated, the defective ones are banished. When it is said that LOMCE is intended as a standard that defends teaching as a career of obstacles, this is an obvious example of what we are referring to. But in addition, we make it clear that these tests absolutely despise the daily work of teachers, who carry out a continuous, systematic, comprehensive, globalized evaluation, and which is also based on the establishment of a two-way communication with families, through quarterly notes, but above all, on the daily contact of teachers with families and families with teachers. This is the reality of education that is intended to be erased, and that is what seems to us to be the most serious of all these reforms. We defend, from the very beginning, the right of families to refuse to submit their children to this totally unnecessary and absolutely anti-pedagogic trance. And, in fact, many families did. I believe that, in an unprecedented way or with few precedents in our country, families have exercised their status as citizens, objecting, objecting to conscientious imposition of a manifestly unjust rule. Approximately 50% of the families, according to the data offered by their own confederations by mothers and parents, refused to take their children to this test. I think there are little milestones in history, in the history of a country, that can go unnoticed, but no doubt what happened, the conduct expressed by families, by citizens of Galicia during the process of revals, was tremendously exemplary and a very clear demonstration that something is beginning to change in this society. I think that's the clear message that should extract this government, but I'm very afraid it won't. Of course, I think what happened last week is a clear demonstration of the beginning of the end of LOMCE in Galicia. That's what families do. And that despite all the coercion and deceptions that led the Government of Greece to carry out, sending letters to families full of falsehoods, an absolutely entrepreneurial media campaign, and also exerting pressure, of course, shame on the leadership and the centers, forcing them to transfer in a mimetic manner the information they wanted to impose this advice. We therefore want to bless families for this example of citizenship, for having provided for the end of LOMCE in Galicia. And we, of course, will, for that and for many others, support this motion, first, because we believe that it is necessary to stop the revalids. But we also want to make it very clear that, once we have applied the revalides of this 3rd course, we defend and that is why we tabled an amendment to the motion of the Nationalist Block, in which we demand and ask that the results obtained from this revalide not be taken into account, precisely because there were many families who refused to do the test, which we say brings an obvious failure of reliability and validity to the past tests, since obviously the data are not extrapolable, since the sample is very variable depending on each centre and, of course, did not count on the support of the families. Finally, we support this motion, we would like this amendment to be supported, which we, in any case, present with the desire that this initiative be enriched. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u141	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking today to set the position of my group and also to defend the amendment that we have tabled, in line with the policy being developed by the Government of Galicia and the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order regarding the defence of the interests of the education system of Galicia and the specificities of the people of Galicia themselves and their students, in this case, is it true? of the system itself in particular. And this is done, gentlemen, within a form of behavior that is not exactly the same as that of the rest of the opposition groups. We do so from the responsibility that is to govern an autonomous community and provide it with the best possible education system so that the equal opportunities that the system has to provide to our future entrepreneurs, workers, entrepreneurs, teachers or Members and be able to achieve the greatest possible equality of opportunities. And this is only achieved with a strong education system, an educational system that provides those basic skills, skills and skills for what was designed. And on this, Mr. Pombo – with all due respect – you say that the Counselor has not spoken. The counsellor spoke exactly of the same thing you talked about here. They're going to say they're going to talk about what's not yet approved, what's in processing, what's in writing, a hypothesis, a preventive critique, but without letting go, right? That's what you've promoted a citizen action around a 3rd primary test that you've been criticising here the other day, and they don't like to be answered around that question. But that's the reality. And today they again spoke again about the 3rd test and all these successful demonstrations or leave of functions that some members of this House have exercised by pressuring and manipulating parents, students and the whole educational system, making them see something that is not. Because you insist, erroneously, on an error that would give you an absolute suspension in your notes, calling things what they are not. You insist on the word, but it's an individualised assessment test, and so surely something is going to be quiet, because today's motion itself is not just about revalids, it's also about evaluation proposals; something we're going to win, something we're going to win, Mr. Counsellor. But in any case, what we're doing is providing the mechanisms for our students to have the best chance of getting ahead of their studies. And that's what you should point out and forget ideology, propose something, which we haven't heard from the opposition groups yet. We want them to propose something, to propose to improve what you think is best. And they join this new bill, which is not just a new law; it is that it is changing those aspects that we consider to be improved by a law that is yours, the Organic Law of Education, which included in its article 21 the evidence of evaluation in Primary, and in its article 29 the evidence of evaluation in Secondary, and in article 144 the general evidence of evaluation, and in article 147 – they pay attention, Counsellor – to the dissemination by the State of the results of these tests – which is why they want to approach us now, and not the LOMCE, it was the LOEC that did that, not the LOMCE, which is just not contemplating it – that are results that will remain within the centre and that will be moved to the parents to participate in the design of the implementation strategies and improvement of the results of the children if it was the case. And this will be a useful tool for the teachers themselves, who, in the autonomy of the centers, will design those educational support strategies, or program contracts, or attention to the diversity that corresponds to further improving our education system. An educational system that is ideological for its part, because where they govern they do apply it, because in Andalusia or in nationalist communities these tests also apply. And, even more, we have in Andalusia a proof that is carried out in 2nd High School, with a title "Six years on the way to progress" – if they want to progress there and not here, Counsellor." "The goal is to know the skills of the student, the situation of the centers and the Andalusian educational system as a whole. Since its inception in 2010, it has been a strategic tool for improvement, because it is essential to have a good and powerful evaluation system." It's seen here that you have a good evaluation system that helps to improve the bad results, on the other hand, of LOE, with LOMCE, those results don't seem to want them here in Galicia, and that's really ideology. Because if they don't, they'll explain how they can criticize what they do here from the opposition where they rule. We, Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u144	Finally, Mr President, saying that, despite all those movements that you have made of a useful instrument, you will have a slate above those families, children of families who listened to their blackmail last day 24. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u145	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u146	Thank you, President. "Chartage, you will regret what you have just done to the Greek families, blackmail." Oh, my God! But what a prepotence!, it's amazing, it's that I'm hallucinating with the prepotence of the People's Party! You're going to stay out of government and change the law. Understand! Because they've just told them the Greek parents and mothers, that they haven't sent their children mostly to an anachronistic proof, of times that they've been forgotten, of times when the new generations no longer know. And it stopped because some and some of us still remember what revolutions were and what they're supposed to be: poverty; they assume lack of education for children with less economic potential, for children with learning problems. And that's what you want to install now, again, again. But besides, they come here to tell us the problem families have. It just seems incredible, really, to keep you in the Middle Ages constantly. They're not even in the 19th century, you're in the Middle Ages, denying culture. You are the anticulture by definition, anticulture by teaching. You want people to be uncultuated, because uncultuated people are easier to manipulate, through the media, that you control. And so for you, the world must work. So they have a problem when society is more cultured, when society reads, when it has access to information, when it has access to know what is done in other parts of the world where they don't have the school failure that we have. That's their problem, which they're incapable of looking to the future, because the only thing that's going to provoke is school failure. 8-year-olds and children presenting for an examination. But do you understand what child psychology is? Do you understand anything about pedagogy? Have you ever read anything about pedagogy in your life? Did they talk to the teachers? They have no idea, they have no idea, no idea. Yes, you continue to labor there while the world around you and our children will be expelled from the school system. Because, look, they might be surprised, but the letter doesn't come in either with blood or with tests. The letter comes in with pedagogy, with dedicated time, with means so that children with difficulties can learn and overcome their difficulties, with equal access to education, forgetting family income. But it doesn't matter to you, of course, to them. You're trying to go back to the franchise that they so much missed, to that unique franchise that they challenge – as you impose on most of them – all the criteria by disregarding any social initiative. That's their policy, the policy of order and command, the policy of non- dialogue. So the Greek parents and mothers told them they were wrong, that their children are not going to undergo stupid tests that are useless, nothing but to segregate and make a choice, to use public education, to teach all, to make a selection of children, to choose a few corners to introduce them into the system and to leave them useful within the system and the others to turn them into cheap labor and so they can be exploited. So we are going to support this motion, as it should not otherwise, because we believe in democracy, because we believe in the right to equal education and because we reject that way of ruling as "order and command", that way of ruling so that people do not move forward, so that our country does not move forward, so that we are always dependent on Madrid, Europe or wherever it is. To you, of course, never, since I am in this House, I have heard you defend the interests of this country and the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. They kill our language and now they intend to create a Galician society that lacks education for our children, a society where the elite continues to govern and where the people continue to have problems accessing culture and getting out of poverty. That's your policy and that's why you'll stop ruling very soon in the state and a little later in Galicia. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u148	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Welcome, Counselor. It's good to stay behind, be able to talk behind Mr. Flours, so that I can give you once in a while a slap, too every once in a while! All right, because you said before that we didn't make any proposals. Man, I wouldn't say very seriously, that we didn't make any proposals. We've been making proposals for two years. What I wonder is how many times, of the proposals we have made in a positive way, you have accepted some. And here is Mr. Rodríguez – who was the former spokesperson, now counsellor – Mrs. Martínez and yourself, Mr. Farínas. I mean, you're proposing, a lot of them. Perseverance? Everything, you know, but results, unfortunately, few. But let's get to the point, Mr. Pombo, on the subject that brings us here for the third time in the last few weeks. A few days ago we were also debating a similar motion in this Parliament, in this case it was from AGE, and I myself also asked a full question to the Counsellor that day too on the subject of revalids. And I want to tell you at the entrance that our position remains the same, obviously not changed at that time. So we're going to hold a very similar speech. We support at the moment the initiative presented by the AGE group, through Mr. Vázquez, and today we will do the same, Mr. Pombo, with the motion you present. We asked Román Rodríguez in full a few days ago, and we supported that initiative that Mr Vázquez presented, without entering the amendments, the amendments that some and others submit, because the important thing for us is very clear: our position in front of LOMCE and many of the measures that emanate from these revalidins or external evidences, as Mr Farínas and Mr Counsellor likes to say. We also have in force – I insist – this law for a year and a half ago, a law, which – I insist once again, and I will not tire of telling the counsellor, although I know you don't like anything – was clearly made behind the educational community – and there are the consequences that we are now living in the day-to-day of our centers – that law that was only supported by you, by Rosa Díaz and Álvarez Cascos. Therefore, they know that it is a law with a clear date of expiry, which will last exactly what lasts in the Moncloa Don Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we also learned months ago that the Basque Government and the Government of Spain had signed a bilateral agreement so that certain competences in matters dealing with LOMCE were made differently in the Basque Country itself. And they were not two minor issues, they were frankly very important issues and those of which Mr. Pombo also speaks of this motion today. Questions that relate to the subject of language, to the subject of the protection of the Basque Country, and to issues related to the treatment of school councils, school councils that had functions before LOMCE and which now have quite different functions once LOMCE is in force; therefore, school councils that were an executive body and today become a mere florist at the service of highly controlled and somehow mangroved directions. The Basques, with this theme, shielded – I insist – two very important themes: school councils and Basques. And, therefore, this had to be done with the complicity of the People's Party in Galicia, too, although Mr. Fariñas also says that in the education sectors you raised your voice – I don't doubt it, but I think that then these things remain in office and do not go much beyond the public opinion. If they raised their voice, of course, we didn't listen to those voices that rose. Mr. Pombo, you're talking again about the subject of the revalids. In fact, a few days ago we saw an entire quite chaotic process. I'm not going to go into the war today, which the counsellor gave us some figures that came through inspection, then we also have the figures that were given to us by the parent and mother groups, and collectives like Confapa Galicia, which I think is a serious and responsible entity, ANPA Galegas also gave us those figures, the teaching unions themselves, representative unions that I think also gave figures. So we're not going to enter if there's a high or low percentage. What is obvious is that there are quite a few, many thousands or many hundreds of students who haven't done those tests, and basically in public education. So, that question, Counsellor, you have to take it into account when making decisions and see what you're going to do with those results that are currently being corrected at the educational centers themselves. I think to a extent that I was trying to reach 22,000 8-and-nine-year-olds, who I don't think has reached that percentage, and I insist: I don't want to focus today on the figures, how many hundreds or thousands of children and girls haven't done the tests, but obviously the tests haven't been done by many students. So I think here I think we have to evaluate that, if you really think evaluation is that, we're very wrong. If you think that evaluation is two concrete evidences of two important subjects and not the day-to-day evaluation in the centers, I think they're frankly wrong. I believe that there are speeches in this country, there are issues of frivolity, I think we need stability, we need to be serious, we need to respect the educational community, respect the professionals of education, and from then on have a stable regulatory framework, and surely the things that happen would not happen. So, Mr. Pombo, we are going to support – of course, being consistent with what we have done in the last few weeks – your motion as well. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u149	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Motion author group. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u150	Thank you. First, thank you for the support of the Joint Group and more of the Socialist Party; tell AGE that I will accept his amendment as an addendum, and I hope you will also support the initiative; and tell the People's Party that the amendment you present has nothing to do with the motion you present, so I will not accept it. Thank you for your support on behalf of the entire educational community, because it's who's calling for the non-application of a LOMCE that wants to implement revalids. And I pretend to be ESO and Bacharelato: they are revalid, essential requirement to get the title to access the next level of education. And we all know that in no way do they contribute to the process of teaching-learning, nor do they benefit the student, they do not evaluate the full education of the student, they despise the continuous evaluation, they mean a waste of public money when we lack resources and means to encourage the integral training of the student and they intend to classify the centres in categories to then receive income; they even intend to exclude from education the most disadvantaged sectors of our population, and they are unnecessary evidence to take measures to care for diversity. In no educational system are measures of attention to diversity based on the results of a standardized external test. The vast educational community is sick and tired of seeing that since 2009 Together is a cut in professor, budget cut in the right to education, cut in the right to a universal loan of books. By the way, the ANPAs are already claiming that loan and will show up on the 15th. We are tired of contemplating how the right to a balanced and adapted education to the Greek reality, a teaching based on continuous evaluation and the integral development of all student abilities. We're tired of seeing how the Council doesn't listen to the professor, it doesn't listen to the ANPA, it doesn't listen to the student, it doesn't listen to the unions and it doesn't listen to most parliamentary groups in this Parliament. Proposals. This educational community is demanding, the proposals are clear: listen to them, defend the exclusive competences, increase the teacher, provide the resource centres, empower the guidance departments, reduce student ratios. Listening to the student, who is demanding the removal of the revalids, because, despite the continuing evaluation of the stages to be approved, they have to approve the revalid, if they don't pass. Listen to the ANPA complaints from public centres, which claim non-application of revalid assessments. Finally, to say that we are going to insist on calling for Parliament's support to delay the implementation of LOMCE, the withdrawal of this revamping project, and, in any case, if we have competences here and believe in them, that they will not apply in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u151	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of youth
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u152	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u153	For the defence of the motion, Mrs Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as the president himself said before giving me a voice, this motion that we present today, the Socialists intend to stand up, if it is supported by all parliamentary groups, a youth policy, youth policy that today in the Council of Galicia does not exist. A youth policy that prays must contain some elements that are implicit in the motion that we present. First, it has to be transversal, i.e., that the whole of the Greek Government councils must have action oriented, precisely, to respond to the main problems of Galician boys and girls. Secondly, it has to contain budget; of course, without budget it is impossible to carry out a youth policy. And thirdly – or firstly, if you want it this way – you have to have a guidance; that is, we have to make a youth policy for something. The German Government, at this moment, the youth policy it is making is an absolutely erratic policy, without any transversal content, with an absolutely impoverished budget, with a 70% less budget than when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Government. That budget, in addition, which is dedicated to youth policy, is distributed in an absolutely opaque way, not by nepotism. As we know and how we denounce the Socialists here and how he was unable to deny the Labour and Wellbeing Counsellor, the former director of Youth, who resigned to stand as a candidate for the Mayor of Boqueixón, distributed the Youth Parliament's programme to number 2 of the People's Party in the Council of Teo. This is the youth policy of the People's Party. Not to mention summer camps, which year after year are always given to the same companies, companies that have, in many cases, ties to the People's Party itself. Well, if we note that there is a policy of erratic youth, that there is a small budget, that that budget is devoted to issues related to the interests of the People's Party and not to the interests of youth, and that since Mr Feijó's rule, 13,000 young men and young men every year leave Galicia because they have no future opportunities here, that youth unemployment has grown in our autonomous community since Mr Feijóo is in front of the Government and that the precariousness and difficulty in finding employment and that the degree of social protection of young people and young women is the lowest in the state, it is clear that youth policy must be guided by the three main problems affecting young people and young women in Greece, which is a lack of employment, which is the return to education, which is a better training for those young people and young people who on their day have chosen to work for sectors such as construction, which now have great levels of unemployment, and which is politics. So what we ask the socialists in this motion that we present is this transversal policy, that policy that is budgeted, that policy that is dialogued with youth organizations and also with trade union centres and economic agents and other administrations, because it is necessary to involve the administration of the state and the councils in this youth policy. And for this, what we ask for in the measures that we present in this motion – which can be these and can be a few more, because we don't deny that there can be any more measures – is that the investment in R & D+i is being recovered at the 2009 levels. That research programs dedicated to recovering talent from young and young researchers should be prioritized so that they can return the ones that have gone away and prevent them from going out more. We propose to lower university rates in the second, third or fourth grades, the conditions of scholarships and access to university, which avoid exclusion and drop out of school, and establish exemptions based on income in the rates and proofs of access to university. Plans should be made back to the study of young people and girls with a training adapted to the demands of the labour market. To re-establish the contribution of stockholders to the improvement of their conditions, the recognition of the right to be discharged into Social Security, and paid training linked to university or vocational education. To design a training that accompanies the necessary change of production model. We can't continue to train people in Galicia for activities that have no way out of the future. We have to make gateway modules in the sectors considered to be future. What are the sectors considered to be future? Everyone who has to do with the social services sector, echo activities, renewable energy, biotechnology, etc., etc. We need to help young people create local employment initiatives, along with the municipalities. And we have to use the tools that are within our reach, such as Igape or how ICO can be in the case of the state, to support the capital needed to put in place initiatives. It is necessary to participate in such initiatives from public administrations, through public capital, to the maximum permitted and legally binding, including social partnership contracts, in the case of beneficiaries of benefits that cannot capitalise unemployment. We also need to develop a package of tax benefits to fund projects and to help companies using young and young people, with 100% of social security contributions being awarded the first year of contracts in practice and a 75% bonus in the second year. We need to establish a line of aid for the support of young people who want to be emancipated and to access housing – that is, to return the programs that existed and that the Government of the People's Party has discarded in the case of access to housing – and we need to develop a return plan for young people and girls emigrated in two directions: the first, of course, priority, to bring them back to their country and that they can develop their life plan here and that they can find employment, and that we can also recover that human capital that we have lost with emigration; but the second – and no less important – that they remain in the countries where they were looking for future opportunities that were denied to them in their land, they have guaranteed their labour rights and their health rights. Therefore, the Government should be promoting the creation of a Youth and Emigration Observatory and participating in it. I should have been demanding a better relationship from the State Administration with all the young men and women who are in immigration, and that the political priority in government relations with other countries should be through the ministries of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation and Employment and Social Security, addressing the situation of these expatriate girls. Mutuality agreements should be promoted for the approval of securities, appropriate measures should be taken to speed up the processing of validations and the extension of UNED services also at the headquarters of the External Administration. And, of course, we need to promote the necessary changes in the organic law of the general electoral regime to facilitate access to the right to vote for citizenship abroad, something of which young emigration girls and young people in these municipal elections on May 24 complained that they had difficulty in exercising their right to vote in such important elections. These difficulties probably have much to do with the poor will that the People's Party had to participate, because he probably also knew that his vote would not be a vote of applause for the policy of cutting and the policies that the young people and girls of Galicia rejected. Well, these are some of the initiatives that can be done when you want to be serious about a transversal youth policy with budget and proposals. These initiatives are not original to this motion we are debating today. These initiatives were presented throughout this legislation in various ways by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, either in the debate on the state of autonomy, either in amendments to budgets or in non-law proposals in debates in plenary and committee debates. So far, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have always refused to support these initiatives. I think the time has come and I think that, in addition, the citizens told them on May 24 clearly that their policies of cutting, of austerity, what they are doing is doing is doing a smaller, poorer, more unequal Galicia, and that this policy is exactly the policy that citizens reject. That's why the citizens on May 24 didn't give you most of their support. That's why it's time to give these policies a change, gentlemen of the People's Party. And look, if there's political will to do it, ideas are here – and others that we can provide among all – there's budget too. Because you know what the Government of the People's Party of Madrid is saving every year for unemployment benefits you cut to Galicia? So look, in the last two years alone, the Central Government owes Galicia unemployment benefits that it has cut 387,488 million euros, i.e., 387 million euros between 2014 and 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you don't even have to use this whole economic content. With less than enough, it's enough to set up a real policy aimed at young people and girls and to address those who are their main concerns today, which is the lack of employment, the lack of proper training for the labour market in which we move and, of course, the lack of access to a housing to be able to do their project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u156	...person of life. If there is political will, budget exists, there is where to get it. What is needed is that the People's Party believes that it is necessary to make a youth policy and not do as it has so far: to dismantle what was little. And as of today, months and a half after the Youth CEO resigned to become part of the Boqueixon People's Party electoral lists, you don't have the Youth General Director yet. All a revelation of what the People's Party cares about is Greek youth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u158	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u159	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u160	I think we will all agree that if there are two characteristics that characterize – worth redundancy – the labour model of the People's Party is labour poverty, on the one hand, and deep inequality on the other. Galicia is a country where 20% of workers earn less than 700 euros a month. It's a country where there are 70,000 workers and workers who earn less than 410 euros. It's also a country where one third of the workers earn less than 950 euros a month. That is the absolute poverty of work, that is the absolute precariousness in which we are located and – which is worse – in the process of chronification. The poor contemporary, the present-day poor is a father or mother who rises each morning, who takes a working day, who often arrives at the exhausted house, but that at the end of the month he is unable to pay his bills, that at the end of the month he is not able to pay his housing, that at the end of the month he is not able to guarantee a proper and proper nourishment for his children. It's the poor worker, as we said. And what are the characteristics of this labour poverty? Well, a job often in part-time. There are 96,000 Greeks and Greeks who have a part-time schedule, an increase of 148% in the last five years. I guess that's the Spanish version of German minijobs, right? Another feature of labour poverty is the feminization of poverty – women triple men in lower wage fringes – and temporary contracts. 95% of contracts created last May were temporary contracts, and a third of these contracts were one week contracts. That's the recovery and path of recovery we're on. But what is the common denominator, at least a fundamental common denominator of this labour poverty? For there is a cross-sectional element that is undoubtedly young people, young people who occupy most of the part-time jobs, who occupy most of the jobs and who occupy the obviously higher unemployment rates. In the last quarter, data from the active population survey speak of 45.6% of young people and girls between 16 and 24 years of age who were unemployed, a figure of the highest undoubtedly highest in Europe; and the rate of timeliness of young people and girls under 30 years of age is 60%. This is the working model for the Galician youth of our government. We are therefore in a situation of extreme gravity, in a truly limited situation. We're probably at the point, as I say repeatedly, as the People's Party governments say, about to get out of the tunnel, but we're about to get out of the tunnel to get to a much darker place than we were in before we entered it. An exit from the tunnel, for example the International Monetary Fund – so said yesterday in its report on the recommended revenue for our country –. The revenue from the International Monetary Fund is very clear: to move forward in labour reform, to reduce the cost of dismissal, to adjust wages and working hours, to raise the VAT – no doubt the most equitable and progressive of all taxes –, to establish new payouts and compensations in education and health. In short, what the International Monetary Fund proposes to us is to keep digging in the pit where we've already found ourselves. That is the roadmap, and we are aware of the capacity of the People's Party to submit the revenues of the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. So, we imagine that if 16,000 young men and young women are now leaving every year of Galicia, the solution will be to leave 30,000, so that the unemployment figures will go down and continue to advance in that forced exile where we are installed. If there is now a free dismissal, we imagine that the International Monetary Fund wants workers to return their wages when they are fired. And if now the wages of 30% of the Greeks do not exceed 700 euros, we suppose, we imagine that the International Monetary Fund directly defends return to slavery. That's the path that's drawn by the International Monetary Fund, which the People's Party has been through for years. So, from the Alternative Left Galicia we defend another exit from the crisis, an exit to the crisis that we understand that, in the face of a structural problem of our capitalist system, it has to be based on truly structural changes and therefore on the establishment of a new model that does not speculate with the environment, that does not speculate, that certainly does not exploit men and women. But we are also sure that, as long as that change does not arrive, we have to support any measure that improves the living conditions of the majority of society in our country, and that is why we are going to support this motion, to which we present an amendment, because we understand that the measures proposed are positive, but there are many others that could be taken and that can be completed and that basically in relation to young people have to fight their main problems, which are: precariousness, ending with the pockets, which are actually exploited workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u162	...with false autonomy; with learning contracts, which, in fact, are workers who work for broilers – as our grandparents said –; with the false formative model of dual FP, which is undercover youth exploitation; and, of course, by boosting youth integration into employment, encouraging retirement and relief contracts and, of course, betting on the division of work and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u164	...the reduction in the working day. And finally, a point that we consider fundamental, which is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u165	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u166	...to bet on a public employment plan to recover fundamental public services: health and education. Let's hope they're admitted. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u167	Thank you very much. Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u168	Thank you, President. All the studies on Galician demography show a medium-term future of definitive consolidation of the gap between a Western, urban and coastal Galicia and an Eastern and interior Galicia; an inner Galician with a remarkable aging of the population, but that this ageing of the population is also moving to that urban Galicia; an ageing aggravated by a strong emigration of new people abroad, which recalls the classical emigration of our country. The ageing population is combined with the decline in the number of inhabitants, since the forecasts clearly show that the situation will be more critical in the medium term. In 2010 is the moment when for the first time there is a generalized decline in population in the Galician Set. In 2010, with the crisis, it's when youth begins to see that in Galicia there is no future and that the German Government is not able to offer them a future that will allow them to live on their land, grow up on their land and have children on their land. So, you get obliged, you get obliged, you get emigrants, you're not going to form, you're not going to have experiences, it's not a playful thing, as the People's Party wants, but it's the same emigration of misery, the same emigration to escape the hunger that happened in the 1950s. Since the crisis began in Galicia, a population representing 74% of the municipalities has been lost. Even two of the seven Greek cities were unable to maintain their population. Demographic projections indicate that between 2010 and 2030 the most regressive areas will continue to lose population, due to very low birth rates, because it is from generations that have had few children, and high mortality, which is due to the advanced age of the number of people who are still living in Galicia. The evolution of the age group where fertility is most prevalent, between 29 and 39 years of age, shows a substantial reduction in population in the last fifteen years in Galicia. In Galicia, according to INE data, there are 592,600 homes, 55% of the homes in Greece, where only one or two people live, but which, in addition, in most of those homes people who live over 60 years of age. So a dramatic situation for our country. That dramatic situation, in addition, is enhanced by public policies themselves, which, instead of encouraging the settlement of population in Galicia, what they do is buy suitcases from young people so they can go looking for life in other countries. By 2020 48.6% of the municipalities in Greece will have more than 32% of their population over 65 years old. Therefore, it is urgent to establish policies to reverse the process of lack of Thursdays and the excess of older people in Galicia. But in order to establish population in Galicia, in order not to lose youth, in order not to continue with the problem of ageing the population, it is necessary to take measures that are aimed at everything – and we say today – that cannot go wild, these are policies that have to go side by side, a policy of improvement of productive tissue, an industrial policy that creates quality work and quality jobs, along with a housing policy that gives housing to young people in order to be able to start a family and have children. It has to end with the contracts, with that possibility that 94% of contracts that are made are possible, and when we say possible we're not talking about contracts for a year, we're talking about contracts that go from hours, one day, up to contracts for a day, two days, one week, one month, that is, precarious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u169	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u170	...more absolute, and that, in addition, they deny even rights as is the right to holidays. And let this be done by the administration itself in your contracts is already the most scandalous. And then, above all, to improve what the work reform in 2012 killed in labor rights and especially what it refers to the rights of conciliation and defence of the job of the working class. So we will support this motion, although we understand that the People's Party will be proud again, it will condemn our youth to emigration and our country to depopulation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u171	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u172	Good afternoon. The Galego Nationalist Block will support this motion, not because we agree in 100 percent with the literality of all the points in it, but because we value it as a touch of attention to the dramatic situation in which the young man from Greece finds himself, a young man from Greece to whom by all means the Government of his country, the Government of Greece, offers him geographical mobility, suitcase, pure and harsh precariousness and labor slavery. A young Greek who has increasingly difficult access to education, an increasingly elitist education, less Greek; who has prevented access to a housing; a youth where the German Government wants to present the highest levels of unemployment disguised as a lack of training, when we meet a youth who in many cases is so highly prepared that it is very common to meet young people and girls who tell us that in their curricula they hide part of their merits so that they can access a contract. We passed from the boys who were specially prepared to the young girls who were emigrants who were well prepared. I'm going to refer not to what the Galician Nationalist Block thinks, but to a number of descriptions of their situation as young people and girls in our country. One of them said recently in an interview that we have less and less girls in Galicia and we have less rights. There's frustration in the young and the young gals. It's a lot of redundancies that touched me to make friends and friends, people my age, people we grew up with together, and not because they want to see the world; they overcome the obligation to do so because they finished their studies and they couldn't get access to the first job or, in case they've joined the labour market, they've become fully exploited. That's the reality that our young and young people live in, a reality where the different labour reforms that they have done has been to prejudge the little work that exists, so that the working conditions are increasingly of greater exploitation, where temporary work is universalized, if they extend contracts in practice, scholarships, in exchange for more benefits to entrepreneurs, such as garbage contracts, subsidies with public money from the Social Security of youth; where the youth employment plans of the Galician Union are nothing more than a smoking curtain and the only thing they do is subsidize businesses that hire young people in precarious and temporary mode. In this way, youth unemployment figures are kept to a minimum. We've met in the face of the worst working conditions for the better-formed generation. We've found that Galician boys and girls can't be emancipated, some because they don't have jobs, so they don't have resources, others because they have contracts that aren't enough, and others because if they want to get emancipated, they'd have to pay almost a hundred percent of what they charge to access. What's their business is to live with their parents, live in a situation of non-emancipation. More than 70% of young people and girls still live with their parents, believe that they should continue to work on whatever it is or that most likely the only way out they're left is to emigrate. It's impossible to believe the official speech that it's coming out of the crisis when it's not possible to be emancipated, it's still impossible for most young people and girls, and when the job situation is a real scandal. Young people who don't have a job, who have a job is a totally precarious job and low wages, young people and girls who can't access a housing, who can't be emancipated, and young people and girls who have more and more difficulty in accessing an elite education and a teaching that is less and less Greek, more Spanish and more centralist. And it's no coincidence that the study plans change continuously, according to the legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u173	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u174	...and it's no coincidence that the People's Party—renamed, president—without any kind of cover-up, implements plans of study like the LOMCE, in a clear object of modulation, and of encountering us with a youth who submits to their claims. I insist that we support this initiative, because of course this Government of the People's Party has completely forgotten the young people of Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u175	Thank you very much. People's Group. Mr. Dorado Soto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u176	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This motion, which brings us today's debate, which is the result of the interpellation that we discussed at the last plenary session, brings 17 points, 17 concrete ideas. Of the seventeen ideas, there are six of them in which the Council of Galicia has no competence; eleven, yes. Well, in the eleven, ten of them are already in progress, not exactly, but if those lines of work are in progress -- that is, more than 90% are in progress; there's only one, to 17, which is not in progress and then I'll explain why. I'm going to focus this debate on going point-by-point, and it seems interesting to me that things are being raised and I would also like to report what is being done, because, given this initiative, it gives the feeling – not that it is so – but it gives the feeling that you don't know everything you're doing on the subject of youth. The first point is a youth policy that is budgeted and focused on employment, education and housing. Well, that's what we're doing right now. The Interdepartmental Commission for Youth has been launched since 2009. A consensus law was passed as was the Youth Law. Two strategic plans were approved, with more than 300 measurements. That, along with a youth employment plan, is transversal youth policies that are budgeted. A second point speaks of recovering investment in R+D+i and returning young researchers. Well, the Galician Union already has a march a talent retention and capture program, a program called the Opportunius program. I don't know if they know him, but it's an important program. Innovation in Galicia has grown by more than 6% in the last year, and over 1,600 million euros in research and innovation will be mobilised in the coming years. At another point – this point is especially curious – you call for lowering university rates and increasing and modifying scholarship conditions. When you ruled the Galician Union, you went up everything you could with university fees, so that's 4.8%. This current government of the Galician Union not only freezes university fees but also makes Galicia the autonomous community of all Spain where it is easier to study. Why? Because they're the lowest rates in all of Spain. On the one hand, you, when you rule, not one thing, and on the other, when you rule the People's Party, you freeze the rates, because we're aware of how important it is that young people can study. You're also talking about plans back to study. The best plan back to the study is to improve the training offer in PF, and it's already underway. You're also talking about training for employment that accompanies the change in production model. Well, the Galician Union funds all those training activities that exceed 25% of the working day. By the 25th, of course, it is financed by the State, from the 25th, the State already does. Then he says: local employment initiatives and business projects. Initiative Thursday, Entrepreneurship Act and a specific order for autonomy in 2014. Then he says – and this is where we are not doing it – that the Galician Union is taking part in the entrepreneurship initiatives. Of course, this is already an ideological issue. This was done in the Soviet Union and it was done elsewhere... yes, yes, yes, it doesn't laugh, because it's true. What he did to the Galician Union, this board of Galicia, for the first time, was put a capital-risk fund to get a push on those companies that were being born, but of course being part of the shareholdership of a company seems a bit illogical to us. [[Murmurs.]] Then, besides, about housing, lines for rehabilitation, lines for those people who have economic difficulties and lines for rent subsidies. And then, within the salad of the seventeen points that you propose, it speaks of the change in the vote of citizenship abroad – I think it's not a subject of youth – and it also speaks of an observatory of Thursdays and emigration. I'm going to report that the Galician Youth Observatory was passed by decree in 2008, when you ruled. In that decree there was not one point that had talked about emigration, not one. Now, the practice being carried out by this observatory is that it does contain reports – and if not, enter the web – on the situation of youth in emigration, and therefore the observatory and the study of youth in emigration is already being carried out, which I understand is what you propose. So I have two doubts left: firstly, you really know what Joina is doing in youth policy; and secondly, if your proposals are really going to improve the situation of youth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u177	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u178	I remember three major proposals from the Socialist Party in recent months. One was a new Plan E – which I read the other day in the press –; another, to ban labour reform, which makes Galicia, for example, be the autonomous community that most youth employment is creating; and the third – which was read yesterday – was already completely absurd, which was that the Government of Spain ceases to legislate. What I think is that what you want is to go back to the Zapatero government, the government that led Spain to a deep economic recession, from which this government and these reforms are trying to move forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u180	So we really believe that the Galician Union is making a real youth policy based on three fundamental things: employment, housing and training. That's what young people need, and that's what the current Galician Union is doing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u181	Parliamentary group responsible for the motion. Mrs. Gallego Calvar has her help.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many thanks to the parliamentary groups of the BNG and the Gaga de Left Alternative and the Joint Group for supporting this motion. Mr. AGE's spokesman, I have no problem accepting your addition. As for the spokesperson for the Popular Group, Mr. Dorado, it's all done, so you can't accept this motion from the Socialist Group. Of course, you come here today to inform us of what the government is doing, because they're still in the strategy: it's a communication problem, you communicate badly, so the opposition doesn't know it, it presents these initiatives, but in fact the government is already doing this. No, no, no, no. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what happens is that you're getting rid of Galician youth, because every year 13,000 boys and girls leave, because here they have no job opportunities. What happens is that since Mr Feijóo's reigning, 80,000 boys and girls have been working in our country, 80,000 jobs have been destroyed. What happens is, since Mr Feijóo's rule, the youth unemployment rate has increased in Galicia by 60%, above the state average, and the employment rate has decreased by 30%. That's the reality. What happens is that since Mr Feijóo's rule, despite advertising and propaganda and despite the fact that the first university degree has actually dropped, the second, third and fourth have risen. So today it's more expensive to get to college, and they're making it more difficult. And what happens is, since you run in Galicia and Madrid, the help has disappeared so that the boys and girls can be emancipated, and since you rule in Madrid, the boys and girls who have emigrated to find a job that on their land if you deny them have more difficulty in participating in electoral processes. That's what happens, that's reality, and by that reality May 24 has happened what happened. It's not a problem of bad communication, it's a problem of politics against most citizens. And most of the citizenry does what it does is to give them back with electoral punishment that policy they do against them. That's what happens. Then don't come here, please, saying it's all done. Look, it's to joke about Opportunity, right? Because he came back one, he took the picture of the counselor with that new investigator who came back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u183	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u184	But one. Home!, we are very glad in the Socialist Group that we had returned one, but we do not aspire to that being the only recovered talent, we aspire to have the recovered talent a little wider. And look, gentlemen of the People's Party, it's so much Mr. Feijóo's interest in youth policy that the most perfect allegory than youth policy for the People's Party are the suitcases he has given to the best academic files, to send them out of the country, and that the Youth General Directorate is not taking up a month and a half after the municipal elections, which has been emptied to use, as always, the Galician Union in the interest of the People's Party, which is what you use the institutions for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u186	We then proceeded to the motions vote. We voted on the motion by the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Iglesias Sueiro, which said that she accepted the two amendments tabled. Vote of the compromised text of the G:P motion: Mixed, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in the field of natural parks. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u187	We voted for the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Pombo, which accepts the amendment of the AGE as an addition, and does not accept the amendment of the People's Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the Royal Decree Project, which regulates the general characteristics of the final evaluation tests of Primary Education, Compulsory Secondary Education and Bachelorate, known as the ‘real decree of revalids’.” The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u188	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Gallego Calvar, who said that he accepted the amendment of Alternative Glaga de Left. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carme Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of youth The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u189	We continue the development of the agenda, the non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union to extend the family mediation programmes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u190	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u191	To formulate the non-law proposal has the word donna Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, let's talk about mediation. Mediation is a process in which everyone wins. By its very nature, a mediation can only be concluded with a solution that is beneficial to all sides. All those who make use of it, but also those who don't use it. Those who use it because, in addition to saving emotional costs in family affairs, they also avoid the rigidity of the judicial process. And also because mediation itself relieves the judges and the judicial institutions, so that other people can benefit from the agility of their processes in which they are immersed. And that's why we all win when we talk about mediation, and we think it's important to continue to promote these kinds of initiatives, which are no longer alternatives to the judicial route, to encourage agility in conflict resolution – I insist – for those who agree, but also for those who remain on the judicial track, which remains uncongested. In this sense, I would like to highlight the offer of mediation activity in resolving family conflicts in cases of marital or couple crisis. This institution, based on the understanding of the procedural parts, has an important public utility, since it represents for families and for units of stable living with residence in the territory of Galicia an important measure to resolve their conflicts; above all, in those cases where these couples or marriages have children or daughters, which in the event of family conflict require suitable consensus solutions to the problems that arise from the couple's crisis that go beyond the judgment itself that can reach a judicial process in which they are immersed. Because children and children should never suffer – even if they suffer but at least suffer less – those situations that can happen in the marital crises. European Directive 2008/52 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union considers that intra-judicial mediation, i.e. that which leads to the end when the judicial process is already under way, is also an appropriate and valid methodology for solving a significant percentage of judicial processes, particularly in those cases where both parties will continue to be connected in the future because of their common interests, which is perfectly adapted to cases of family breakup – especially in cases where there are children or minor children –. This directive has been transposed into our legislation under Law 5/2012. In Galicia, before this transposition was made, in 2009, the Galician Union initiated a pilot process of intrajudicial mediation in the family by signing an agreement at the Santiago de Compostela Judiciary Party, a collaboration agreement with the College of Lawyers, and this project was extended to the Justice Party of Ourense from 2011, Vigo in December 2012, in Lugo in 2013, and last year, 2014, extended to the Pontevedra Judiciary Party. Well, the intrajudicial family mediation instrument has a real contrasting effect, as it shows the fact that, from the beginning of this experience I'm reporting in Galicia, from the year 2009 until the end of last year, the family judges of Santiago de Compostela, Ourense, Vigo and Pontevedra have resulted in mediation over 1,000 issues. And with regard to those couples who effectively agreed to attempt mediation beyond the first initial session, more than half of these families, specifically 56%, ended the mediation process with an agreement. We therefore believe that it is an important instrument, that it is an effective instrument and that it is also having proper results in the relations of paternal-maternal-filial conflict. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in family court proceedings, the family relationship does not end with the judgment, but in the case of children and daughters in common relations will remain beyond the judicial resolution, so the solution reached with the consent of the parties will ensure a better future relationship and compliance with the sentence. The Galician Union has invested more than half a million euros in these projects, and we consider it important that this conflict resolution system be extended to other judicial parties. This is the object of this non-law proposal. That is why we are presenting this initiative, in order to achieve the support of the rest of the groups, because we believe that it is good for everyone, it is far from political ideology, because I believe that this is the first time we have talked about mediation and I believe that we all agree, that there is more mediation and that there are more alternatives to conflict resolutions than the judicial route, for better for all. In this sense, I would like in turn to see the honourable Members who are in favour of the amendments, both of the Socialist Party and of the Joint Group, explain the amendment a little bit. In the case of the Socialist Party, which asks to enable specific rooms, we would like to be told where these specific rooms were located, and, instead of providing these offices with staff and economic means, which staff would be and which would be those economic means, because it seems to us to be a little generic and we would like it to be more concrete what the final claim of that amendment is. Like the Joint Group, which says, "It will provide places for the holding of meetings, as well as the budgetary departure it needs to allow the recruitment of an accredited group of mediation professionals." Well, we believe that the accredited mediation professional groups are currently working with lawyers and psychologists, and it seems to us enough, I don't know if there's any more professionals to intervene, according to the Joint Group, in these mediation processes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u193	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u194	Thank you, President. This initiative, which was registered almost a year ago, urges Together to promote, implement and develop actions in the area of de-judiciaryization of conflicts; in particular to extend intra-judiciary family mediation programmes. This honourable Member is not unaware of the usefulness of family mediation: safeguarding personal relationships, diminishing emotional costs and the parties themselves assume the role of the solution in cases of rupture of coexistence, precisely, except in cases of macho violence, because mediation requires that the relationships between the members of the couple be equal, and male violence is the most brutal manifestation of inequality between the couples. If there is violence, the risk to the victim is increased and the principles that govern equality stand out. And so it is expressed by representatives of justice and feminist associations, who insist that family mediation is not the right tool in cases of male violence. Therefore, it is appropriate to be alert that the outcome of this mediation does not without judicial rejection leave the harassment, insults and all the ill-treatment that does not entail physical aggression. What would have been the opposite effect of the mediator spirit and greater impunity of the aggressor and greater suffering on the part of the victim. And if this mediation is applied torturingly and by unskilled people, and motivated by doctrinal and religious principles, that can be the cause that brought as a result the women's obligation to close at home and assume the role of victim in the future. It must not therefore be a generic measure of application, since it would then be contrary to the comprehensive law of gender violence and assumed a clear retreat. That's why it's very important to have very clear what kind of conflict is advisable to mediation and how far free will and autonomy can come from the parties' will. This second aspect, in my view, is of vital importance, because the will of the parties is the basis of any extrajudicial method. If not necessarily binding, except on the part of the parties' will, it would not be advisable to mediate when reaching an agreement is not mandatory. On the other hand – and now I'm going to the amendment, Mrs. Paula – mediating is a trade, even if it's not exclusive; if, as a profession it is, it's necessary to learn its technique and foundations in practice and theory. That is why the amendment is concerned, because we are concerned about the formation of minimums which cover the laws in that field and the consequences that may have the agreements reached in that mediation. The role of mediator must be exercised from impartiality, independence, training and professional experience. And that, of course, implies an budget to pay these kinds of services to professionals, as you said, of law and psychology. I also find it important to have neutral spaces where mediation flows in a relaxed and pleasant, comfortable environment for its realization, because this can influence the outcome of it. Anyway, Mrs Prado, I will support the initiative. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u195	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs. Sestayo Doce has her help.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u196	Thank you, President. I will try to clarify the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the spokesperson for the People's Party. First, I'll start with the frame. It's true that mediation as a legal institution exists since there are professionals in this field, at the beginning of the 1980s. But it is also true – of you who lack ideology – that it has been implemented specifically, so that it could be applied judicially in the midst of civil family judicial processes, through Law 15/2005, of July 8. It is indeed the inheritance of the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero; a law – I think they know her lordships – which so upset the People's Party in her day. Therefore, it will lack ideology, but the fact is that the legislative amendment of the Civil Code and the Civil Adjustment Act made by this law raised ampoules by the People's Party. In any case, the correction is very good. But once again, we find ourselves with an initiative that comes to find a headline, a headline that doesn't happen in practice. And, of course, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has brought here many initiatives in favour of mediation – of course, in different legislations – because we believe in an alternative system to the litigation system, in the civil sense, in an area of law, in an area of social and law as is the family, where different mechanisms are needed, of course, for the specificity of the family's right; both for the objectives to be achieved, especially since the procedural and substantive modification of the year 2015, as well as for the indeterminate legal concepts that work in the eido, as well as the best interests of the child, etc. The parties to the conflict do not agree with the procedural parties, as rightly pointed out in numerous judgments, and therefore it is necessary to extend the effectiveness of the judicial resolutions to many more interested people. And undoubtedly, apart from that, the execution of judgments and judicial resolutions becomes something indefinite and too apparatusous when it does not count on the will and acceptance of the parties. So mediation, in which the Socialist Party has so much insisted, often with the vote against – and we can turn to the People's Party's Diary of Sessions – is obviously an institution that must be supported whenever it counts, in addition to the media. The truth is you were asking where, talking about big headlines and the support of the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party. Well, you will certainly remember, Mrs. Paula Prado, as in Commission 1 we presented an initiative to pay the expenses incurred by different schools of psychologists, as it was in Santiago, who even publicly reported that they were not charged by the Board. Right now I can tell you that the convention with the 2015 Pontevedra Bar Association is unpaid. As you know, the Galician board pays at the end of the year and they have to be the lawyers and the psychology professionals – by the way, nothing prevents any other kind of professionals, I don't have time to explain it, but it knows, I suppose, the legal framework – those who have to postpone their salaries as well as the earned VVV, and then the Junta pays a year later. In other communities the agreement is produced logically in advance. So selling here a holder at the expense of work, effort, wages, costs and salaries, of the professionals who are performing the service is certainly unfortunate. What we ask for is, in addition, something unanimous – I believe that without exception – by all the professionals who are working in mediation within the courts, in family mediation. First, enable specific rooms for the provision of services with two persons, adapting schedules and counting on the affected groups. You know perfectly well that there are no places in every place to look for this mediation meeting, absolutely necessary, and enabled with specific conditions to produce the required result...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u197	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u198	...and coordinate between existing services. The truth is that the Galician Union has not planned the mediation service and there is an absolute disunity between the same services, which work on the initiative of each site. By the way, territorial delegations don't know any of the service. As well as equipping these offices with sufficient personnel and economic means. I'm guessing that assumptions should – if they certainly want to advance in mediation –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u200	...end the People's Party and let's hope they accept. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u201	Thank you very much. Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I hope Mrs. Prado doesn't get angry with the qualifications I'm going to make of her initiatives in the field of justice. But, of course, we are looking at how various initiatives are brought to this plenary which we have frankly not just seen what they are pursuing. A short time ago it was going forward in the installation of video cameras in the viewing rooms. And now it's an initiative that says something as powerful as: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council, in the exercise of its powers in the field of impulse, implementation and development of actions in the field of de-judicialization of conflicts, to extend the programmes of intra-judicial family mediation." On January 10, 2013, Mr. Rueda said in Commission 3rd – when he came to explain to us the budgets for the year 2013 of the Galician Union, which, by the way, repeated in 2014, in 2015 and I suppose we will hear him again in a few months when he tells us the budgets for 2016 – that it was an irrevocable commitment of the Government of Galician Union to bet on intrajudicial mediation. And he said that during the past legislation this service had been implemented in Santiago, Ourense and Vigo. Let me make a parenthesis because, of course, the Government of the People's Party very much likes to appropriate the mediation service implemented in Santiago; which is not for nothing but recognize that some previous government has also done some things in this field and that at least that service has been implemented not in the previous but in the previous legislation. And finally, in the budgets for 2015, both Mr. Vice-President and his own memory of the budgets established the momentum of intrajudicial mediation as a mechanism for conflict resolution other than the judicial process. And, therefore, that was one of the priorities of the Government, within the 131A Programme, the expansion of the experience already put in place that reached the places, the judicial parties, Santiago, Ourense, Vigo and Lugo – which was the last agreement that was signed –. So, Mrs. Prado, I don't know what we're going to urge the Government here, because a bet so firm, so firm, so convincing, as the vice president of the board has for extending this service... that in six years he's already been able to extend to three judicial parties. We congratulate you, of course, energetically on the part of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, just as within another six years, because we have another three or four judicial parties in which intrajudicial mediation takes place. Because, of course, things don't become the basis of our parents. So, of course, here we talked about the need to equip ourselves with more means and even adequate spaces to be able to develop these tasks. Of course, there are psychologists and psychologists and lawyers in these mediation services. There could be other professionals. There are professionals who are called family educators, family mediators... I mean there are different professional branches within that field. But it is also – and this has already been discussed on one occasion in Commission 1st – that there are complaints, or complaints – that we call them this way, because "denunciations" seems a bit too powerful – by different schools of psychologists and psychologists proving that it is impossible, with the number of professionals who have to meet that mediation service, to meet all the demands they have to attend that service. I mean, as you said, Mrs. Prado, this is something that benefits not only the people directly concerned but the whole of the people who intervene and have to go to the Administration of Justice, and we could be solving many more extrajudicial conflicts if these existing mediation services had more psychologists or psychologists, or more jurists, in order to be able to solve them. Because, in fact, they make it clear that all the demands that exist to attend this service are not met. And that's logical, because in 2009, for one service, which was Santiago's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u203	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u204	...there was a budget appropriation of EUR 64,800. And now, for all existing ones, there's a provision of 160,000 if you add what approaches the Wellness Council and what approaches the Vice-Presidentship. So what we say is, if you really want to bet on this, let's do it; but let's do it with specific questions. No, Mrs. Prado, may you come here to repeat what, both orally and in writing, sets the memory of the budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u206	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u207	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u208	Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Prado, the truth is that I am rather disturbed by the priorities shown by the People's Party in the matter of justice. I say it perplexes, and I'm sure that, before I come here, and consult the legal operators, because the truth is that they are surprised. Because I see that there are demands on justice, demands on personnel, demands on material resources, on professionals, to cover all cases of corruption in our country! Look what they're asking for, for example, specialized anti-corruption prosecutors! Look what they're asking for the judicial office's implementation! Look what they're asking for legal infrastructure in the archives and purges! Look what they're asking for substantial things in practically all the judicial parties in our country! And it turns out that the priority of the People's Party is to bring us here – I have said it with affection – an initiative of impulse; in this case, Mrs Prado, the initiative itself speaks of, indeed, the matter of impulse. Let's suppose, if you bring this here, it's that the Galician Union is doing absolutely nothing. And let's suppose because there is little time that you have brought this initiative – just like Mr. Rueda's isochronas – on repeated occasions to the committee. Therefore, the Government's balance on the part of the People's Party's voice of justice, indeed, negative. If you have to bring this here, Mrs. Prado, we're very bad. In fact, the numbers are clear, for now we have 45 judicial parties, and the balance we have in a government sexnium and with most absolute majority, not with tide chaos and instability that the People's Party is so afraid of, because it's very negative, Mrs. Prado. And of course, actually, the truth is... impulse initiative? Great. We insist and understand that this is a joke. They have an absolute majority, they have budgets, they have an absolutely inefficient budget execution, they have a justice plan with which they can do what they want, and it turns out that you have to come here so that we continue to work on this matter which, in fact, the Left Gaga Alternative Group – just like all political groups, like the good people – defends and believes interesting. Sure, it's all written, actually. You quoted Directive 852. Of course, indeed, Mrs Prado, we already know what to do. The point is to put it into action. And, indeed, we agree with the amendments that have been tabled, that of course we must have material means and budgets and spaces that – we say – also neutralize personal conflicts. Of course, it is the provision of vital and fundamental service. And of course we agree that, according to the judicial memory we have and the recommendations of the last memory of the outgoing chief prosecutor, Mr Varela, because, of course, 54% of the couple's conflicts that have been submitted to these considerations have reached an agreement. We know it works. The point is, what you have to do is there are 45 court parties. Put the cuffs on, get them to work and make reality what they're asking for is good citizenship. And, above all, Mrs Prado, of course there is an important process of socialization in the couple's conflicts. And of course, these neutral and mediation services can serve for very interesting sociological learning. And above all baggage, the memories about the work that has been done and sometimes the tune that is made by mediation professionals incorporates elements that – you know well – are alien or are not human, if I am allowed to express myself. I mean, fundamental issues in regulatory agreements of any kind, of a couple relationship we have. You know that they're quite conservative, and sometimes the mechanism of mediation itself, that couples talk through professionals... for, indeed, realities are too heterogeneous, maybe because couple members have complex days, one works at night, another works partially, well, issues that are quite human and quite real, as you know, in couple conflicts. And sometimes mediation incorporates those elements that are the very source of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u209	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u210	...distortion and that sometimes, of course, is not taken into account in the walls of justice itself. But, of course – I insist – to come here to tell us – I say this in the Commission – that this is an initiative of impulse... Indeed, Mrs Prado, it is an initiative of impulse that emphasizes that the Government of the People's Party, of the Unity of Galicia, is suspended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. From the scene, Mrs. Prado, from the scene. For the author group of the non-law proposition, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u212	I would like you to remove the expression that the honourable Member has just made, because to Gulag no one goes except those who pretend to be democrats, Madam President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm very sorry that the groups in this House don't like to talk about mediation even though we all agree on the usefulness of this service for citizenship. In general, but in particular, the issue brought by the Popular Parliamentary Group today was intrajudicial family measurement, a subject which we believe is fundamental and very important in the resolution of family conflicts and, above all, in cases where there are children and children. I'm sorry you don't like this debate. We feel comfortable in this debate because, far from suspending the Council of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Galicia, if we compare the data of their commitment and their actions when they ruled, it's not that it suspends, it's that it takes a license plate of honor. Because Mrs. Paz said that in 2009, the Galego Nationalist Block, when ruling with the Socialist Party in Galicia, launched the mediation program in Santiago. It's true, in four years they set up one. I made the report that in four years, four, Mrs. Paz. No 11, Ourense; No 12, Vigo; No 13, Lugo; No 14, Pontevedra. And now we want some more. Of course we think it's important to incorporate more. If possible, the Coruña; if possible, elsewhere. We're talking about the Galician Union having an important commitment to mediation. Of course, because not only is family mediation going, we're also talking about the current project that the Galician Council is working on with criminal mediation -- for example, with the College of Lawyers in Ourense; or also in Santiago, with the University. In the case of civil and commercial mediation, Junta signed a protocol last year with the Galego Council of Chambers of Commerce and is pending another one with the Galego Council of Prosecutors. So when I said that, Mrs. Sestayo, of course the People's Party is engaged. But in addition, I am giving you data on concrete facts and realities, not on promises and issues that appear, as Mrs Peace said, in budgets, but rather to materialize with agreements. And I was wondering what his intentions were with the amendments, even though you took him for a joke. The truth is that I was surprised, and I am glad to bring this debate because we saw how you actually do not know how intrajudicial mediation works. Because you ask for specific rooms. Look, it's just that the specific rooms in the judicial buildings are advised, what it's all about is getting the judiciary out of the conflicts, so that's mediation. And you ask for specific rooms in the courts. Mrs. Churches, I absolutely agree with you that masculine violence is absolutely discouraged in mediation. It is true that professionals who work in gender-based violence, in macho violence, never advise mediation. And that's why there's no mediation with the victims of gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u214	That's what we agree on. That's what we agree on. I insist, we cannot accept these amendments because they talk about questions... I insist, the rooms are included in the agreements that are signed with the lawyers' schools, they know that these rooms are – by the way – at the lawyer's schools. In Santiago are in the building of the Galaga School of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u216	As for the presence of professionals, they are currently lawyers and lawyers and psychologists, who are perfectly coordinated. And it's protocoled; so we're not going to vary the mediation protocols now. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u217	Thank you very much. Proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Santalices Vieira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the programme Conecta 72
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u218	This proposal was amended by the Joint Group, the AGE, the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u219	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Santalices Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We bring here today a subject that I think is interesting, which is referred to a program for the care of those patients who receive hospital discharge. In particular, this is a special program within the first 72 hours of hospital discharge, in which they will receive from primary care teams, through the nursing service, a call to assess the patient's health status. This is what is known as Program Connect 72, which is 72 hours after discharge. We must not confuse – because there is some confusion – Connect 72 with home hospitalization, there are two different things. Home hospitalization is a program in which patient follow-up to the medical requirements of the hospital is valued. But this is a much more specific program, it's about making a phone call to those patients who received a hospital discharge. Automaticly from generating a hospital discharge, it is generated in the schedule of the Primary Care Service, through nursing, a demand to contact the patient and evaluate his status. So it's also a program that allows better coordination between primary nursing and hospital nursing, which was pursued with integrated management areas. It's a program that, in addition, is well valued by citizenship, because it brings a lot of benefits, at least from what this program has implemented, because it's a program that has specific objectives. In short, we could say that it's about improving the patient's care quality after a discharge, a discharge that occurs in the hospital. It increases the relationship and trust of patients and caregivers in health care. It also facilitates, and axillizes, the integration and continuity of patient care after hospital discharge. And it also serves to prevent and intervene early in the face of health problems that may arise after a hospital discharge. So I think it's a very valuable program and its implementation is beneficial for the whole citizenship. We have to frame it within the chronic patient care strategy, which will benefit from this, but not only chronic patients. They're going to be beneficiaries of this program all those who receive a discharge. There will undoubtedly be more incidence in chronic patients because the chronic patient generates more hospital stays than the other patients. But – I insist – the program aims to address all patients with a hospital episode, which at 72 hours can be called to assess their health status. This, too, – and we will discuss it later – reinforces the role of nursing within the National Health System, because the fundamental role passes through primary care nursing. And here too, technology is of great importance, because in Galicia, fortunately, we have the Ianus program, which allows it to be, in some way, already directly affected by the results and evaluation of patients. Galicia was a pioneer here in this sense, and therefore I think we are in a position to carry this program forward throughout the autonomous community. Well, predictable calculations point to that in Galicia there are 230,000 hospital highs that can occur over a year; so we're talking about a program that has an important content. It's 230,000 people, and even though some can be repetitive episodes of hospital income, it has its benefits. There are also some matters under which the Connect 72 program should not be applied, given the specificities of a hospital service. So, and in short, Madam President, I think it is an interesting initiative, which benefits very much from citizenship and population after hospital admission, and calls for support from all Members and Members for this non-legislative proposal. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u221	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u222	Well, we're again faced with a new act of popular party propaganda, those that have us accustomed to every time they present a non-law proposition, or every time they ask the Government a question. And I say that this initiative is mere propaganda not only because it proposes that the Joint Committee report to Parliament on the results of the pilot study of the Conecta 72 programme, since it would only be missing. It is the duty of the Government to report on the state of a pilot program implemented in our health system. With which, it is incredible that the People's Party that supports the Government has to bring a non-law proposal to this Parliament to tell the Government that it has to inform. Yes, Mr. Santalices, you're right, the government doesn't report, you're right. We have to ask you in writing and in full. It's also propaganda because it proposes indefinitely to evaluate the possibility of doing an implantation schedule from Sergas' program, to do it. Now, when?, in what time period?, how do you do it?... And yet he has already announced that this program has been underway since April 13, without consulting the nursing staff and with deficiencies in his planning. The first would be that the Welsh Government had listened to the health care staff, which he usually doesn't listen to. But in addition, we say it's a propo-propaganda proposal, because if they'd listened to the health care staff, the first thing they'd do would not be to urge the program to be implemented now, but to increase the nursing staff in primary care. The philosophy of complementing the care of patients through home care is appropriate, but it must be based on a well-managed public health system with sufficient resources and staff. The Union should not impose on health professionals who suffer from cuts a new task without first addressing the lack of means and personnel. This telephone tracking program has serious deficiencies, such as the lack of connection between primary care and specialized care, from which the patient comes, or the imposition of appointments in an administrative manner without the ability of the nursing staff appropriate to their schedule, and with little time to study the patient's history. In practice, what the Conecta 72 program will assume is the overload of work in health centers and a worse quality in health care. Returning to the assessments made by the health personnel, his opinion on Connect 72 was not very positive though President Feijóo assumed that health professionals were satisfied with the service. The saying: from the Union they don't listen to Sergas' staff. The nursing staff agree to denounce the rush to launch the program, without means, without information and without training prior to the professionals who have to care for it. From the SATSE to the IGC, health unions criticize the launch of this program. And I hope they don't say again, as they always say, that if the opposition is against attention. It's not against the program, it's about the start of a back-up program to which you have to take that program forward, without listening to professionals. "Professionals", according to which they declare – and I literally say it according to a statement by the SATSE union – can only do the indispensable right now, and that is to pretend that we double. On the other hand, it presents inadequacies, such as lack of connection to specialized care, something that should administer a case-manager nursing, a figure that does not exist." They also warn that the program is destined to fail, because they impose appointments on the nursing staff that they must prepare by taking time out of their work and interrupting their work schedule. In Ourense they denounce that the implementation of this measure was mere electoral propaganda towards the municipalities. In Ourense they also denounce nursing professionals that the Conecta 72 program does not involve home care, something that remains at the staff's discretion, based on reports. In short, they have the face of assuming the Conecta 72 program, when the health personnel warn them they don't give for any more; they have the face of overloading the nursing templates with a new job, when they don't cover all the squares they retire, or when Sergas's staff undergo garbage contracts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u223	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u224	...for days or even hours. So -- I don't have time for more -- I'm going to talk about my amendment, which is a replacement amendment to point 2, because point 2 of the initiative says, "...value the possibility..." -- that is, evaluate the possibility of doing -- that is, it doesn't say anything. I mean, it's like saying nothing at all. So, I propose that you be replaced and I hope the People's Party will stop propaganda and accept to open the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u226	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u227	Thank you very much. It's written. Mrs. Prado, by the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u228	The People's Party Member has just said that he has defended this initiative that we are facing an interesting initiative. That's what I call it, Mr. Santalices. I would say that we are faced with a nice initiative, not to say that it makes a bit of a laugh, because it brought here the People's Party an initiative that the truth is that it shows quite little respect for this Parliament. It brings an initiative in which, in its resolution, the Government of Greece urges this Parliament to report on the results of the pilot study of the Conecta 72 programme. The truth is that it attracts attention that the People's Party, which can request when it wants the appearance of the members of the Government and which can make them come when they want them because they have a majority in the Bureau, brings here an initiative as if they had no normal mechanisms to do so. The truth is that they draw attention because they no longer do so for this matter. With the very serious problems of public health in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – waiting lists, bed closures, emergency saturation, privatizations... well, the list is quite checked, but it's quite long unfortunately – it's not that you don't ask the Government, the health advisor, to account for all these problems, but when any group asks for it, you radically refused to come in to give any explanation. But it turns out they're now bringing an initiative here to explain a program, Connecta 72. Actually, he's paying attention. And he draws attention to what they do when the government itself has announced that it is set in motion. The truth is, I don't know if you have anything to do with the government, if you don't see the media, or if you want to take this Parliament out of your mind. Because, look, the board agreement of 9 April – I know it is an acquaintance, but I don't understand how, being an acquaintance, it brings this initiative here – literally says: "The board of board of board today approved the agreement by which the Galician Health Service will extend to all health centres in Galicia..." – with which, I don't know what schedule, when the Government in full, assembled in council, approves to extend to all health centres in Galicia on Monday, April 13, two months ago, Mr. Santalices, two months ago – and simultaneously...". Well, I can keep reading the deal... The truth is that it draws attention to the board of directors' agreement, when we meet later that it is conveniently repugnant, for example, by television galega. And to deal with and reflect the health problems when they are reported, when professionals demand improvements, when there are mobilizations, when there are problems, when users report all kinds of neglect, so there are no spaces on the public Galician TV grid, to pick up the problems; now, to re-enact the popular party's propaganda, they hit spaces on the grid. And, in fact, on 9th, there's a telex of Galician noon: "The Conecta 72 program extends to all outpatient clinics to control patients after hospital discharge." Or the advisor himself gives headlines at the end of April, where he says the Conecta 72 program, following patients, has registered 3,400 calls in his first week. I, of course, don't know what initiative this is that you bring here; I honestly don't know, because the truth is, it's pretty. That's why we tabled an amendment to see if we gave some meaning to this initiative, so that we first take into account the professionals, those you have not taken into account, and to give primary care to resources and professionals. Because it's very good that you now say here, Mr. Santalices, that this reinforces the role of nursing, but what gives it is much more work to professionals already saturated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u229	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u230	And you're talking about 230,000 high annuals in Galicia, that is, 230,000 patients controlling and calling and tracking him with no more resources and no more professionals. A real doll, a real doll! With which, the truth is that you are taking this Parliament for granted. If you accept the amendment tabled to supply you with something of content, then very well, and if not, of course, the BNG does not come into this kind of reel that all they do is damage the image of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u231	Thank you very much. By Alternative Left-Galga, Mr. Ron has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u232	Good afternoon, everyone. We are once again faced with an initiative of these areas, an initiative that we wish, at the bottom, to take advantage of the criticised Health Council, of the criticised Health Counsellor. In the short circular that the General Directorate for Health Care referred to the Conecta 72 program was designed to improve the care continuity through the first 72 hours of a telephone consultation by the nurse or primary care nurse to patients who were discharged from hospital. And it also highlighted in a repetitive rhetoric, that this offer, this program, aims to improve the quality of care for patients at high school, increase the relationship and trust of patients and caregivers in health care, facilitate and expedite the integration and continuity of patients' care after hospital discharge, prevent and intervene early in the face of health problems after hospital discharge and homogenize care practice. We really don't see how all this, especially the subject of prevention, is possible through a phone call. That is to say, we, of course, understand that all of this, this whole program that you announce to bomb and plate, is done in a context in which you have attacked permanently from 2009 to 2015 health care: health budgets and primary care budgets, 300 million euros less in a sexnium; depreciation of squares throughout Sergas, also in primary care, which implies increasing workloads and inoperability from some centers; problems even in primary care appointments, even waiting lists; in fact, as it was something that has already been reported here, primary care monitors had to take on an increase in the workload as well as taking care of the xinecholic reviews of healthy women. This program can also lead to a dangerous routine – we understand a dangerous routine – which is the hasty concession of hospital discharge. You seem to want to have your beds free as soon as possible, and that, of course, can be dangerous. Control cannot provide adequate care at the hospital. A phone call cannot provide for a presence consultation and a clinical look. That's yes, of course it's useful to prevent direct consultation, because, of course, a phone call and the very consideration that the person who receives discharge may have one, for example, scar of an operation, may well not correspond to reality. We understand, of course, that what may be complementary cannot be set up as a substitute. And that is the risk that is clearly seen in this initiative. That's why we proposed, in addition, with a view to strengthening what needs to be reinforced, which is the primary care service, three points to add: The third, recovers the budget in primary care, mainly in the staff chapter, with investment figures corresponding to the cut-off to the 2009 level. Fourthly, it would be – our second amendment – to recover the squares of amortized people in primary care, offering them in public contest. And finally, practice the coverage of vacations, permits and IT of primary care staff in the entire template. Because we understand that the fundamental and precisely what is there is the quality of health through the strengthening of primary care. We understand that freeing, freeing beds to have free beds because so supposedly saving, logically, in the minds of the People's Party is saving costs. They are granted hospital discharges in a manner, perhaps, precipitated, and therefore implement a prevention control program – it is not well known how –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u233	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u234	...for the next 72 hours. So we understand that this initiative is an initiative to wash the face of the Health Council, but that, of course, it does not even satisfy the health professionals, as it has already been said, because the unions have already expressed their opposition to the increase in the burden they are assuming and because there is, logically, no such larger staff that should be offered from now on. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. Socialist Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u236	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The truth is that the lack of respect for the People's Party, for the People's Parliamentary Group, for this House, and therefore for the Greek citizenship has no name. With what is falling into health they decide to bring this initiative, Mr. Santalices; this initiative that looks more like a coat of hair. Of course, rigorous, rigorous is not. Look, through this initiative you ask Parliament to report on the results of a pilot study and make a schedule for the implementation of the Conecta 72 program, when the trial you have to know that it was done there last November, that it lasted a month, that it was done in eight centers nothing more and that the Conecta program is already implemented in one hundred percent of the territory. By the way, in a great hurry, just before the election. Informing the results of a pilot study, Mr. Santalices, would make sense if it were to make an assessment prior to its implementation or to make an assessment prior to its withdrawal, but, I insist, I fear that Connect 72 without evaluation and without information is already implemented. And speaking of reporting, in fact, it would be very good if you reported not only this House, but the professionals involved in the development of that program. That's what they didn't do. And now, Mr. Santalices, it's no longer necessary to inform them, either to them or to this House, because the union itself, for example, has already taken care of nursing to make very clear the concept they have of this program, to which they have no "propaganda" and "traplate"—textually, Mr. Santalices. And they say he's just trying to disagree, because it implies more work for an absolutely overloaded template. They also ensure that the Connecta program is causing great dissatisfaction in the profession, and both in primary and hospital nursing, because it consumes time they don't have and requires coordination that doesn't exist. Ladies and gentlemen, if they don't even have the same computer device! They don't have a program or time to cover the hospital. And if the nurse or nurse at the hospital doesn't have time to fill the discharge, the person receiving the patient in primary care without the discharge has no history. In addition, in primary there are only ten minutes reserved in the agenda – by the way, for the administrative services, as already mentioned here – to inform you of the circumstances of this discharge and to put yourself in those ten minutes in telephone contact with the patient. Well, that's if in the clinical history of discharge there was the patient's phone, because the most frequent thing is that it contains the phone of some family member who was accompanying him during the income. That is, nursing with the People's Party has more and more tasks and fewer people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Connect 72 program, I'm afraid it doesn't "connect" with completely overburdened professionals, but it's not "connect" with a confused citizenship by checking that it was safer to "tell you in your health center that you're already high for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u237	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u238	...come and make the cures" that you now: don't worry that you'll ever see him around your house. And then it turns out that no one shows up, because the computer fails or the phone fails or you have shut down or the two services have not been properly coordinated. If you want a Connect program, accept our amendment, in which we ask for more personal and computer uniformity for proper implementation of it, as well as, of course, the recovery and implementation of the Plan improves primary care, which, of course, remains essential. What you're proposing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we're not going to support it, because it's just a coat of hair and demonstrates an absolute disrespect for the Greek citizenship. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Santalices has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u240	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think I said this was a non-interesting bill proposition. I believe that all non-law proposals are interesting, at least for the honourable Member who presents them. I think I said that the program was interesting, I think that's what I said from the gallery, and I think it's interesting, so I'm not going to accept the amendments that are proposed to me, because even in some of them it's curious that you talk about your deployment, Mrs. Acuña, but what you're asking is the withdrawal of the plan, however, the Mixed Group agrees with the philosophy of the Connect 72. Well, it seems to me that it is also interesting – and that is the role of this Parliament and of the Members – that the data are provided here with a plan that is being implemented and that this is guaranteed to be implemented 100 percent across the community. Why? Because it seems to me that it is a plan that benefits and greatly citizenship, because it's people who have been in a hospital and those who are asked at 72 hours how their state of health is. Mr. Ron, it's not an axillation on the subject of discharges, no, no, much less, that we've been discussing here a lot, but that was another debate, you know where I'm going. Here there was a certain moment when it was questioned that if doctors charged for discharge, and that was a debate... No, I can assure you that doctors discharge at the right time, they're professional. So in that sense, be calm, that doctors will continue to step up when they proceed. It's a plan that causes... and it also positively affects -- because it gives the patient security -- and it can correct the incidences that may arise. You've fired integrated management in your day... yes, you've fired in your day. [[Murmurs.]] I remember here, in this Parliament, living discussions on integrated management. Today, fortunately, we have implemented integrated management and begin to see the benefits of integrated management in coordination between primary and specialist, which can now insert programs, as we are discussing today. There's a question you haven't commented on. And now I use the replica shift to comment that the nursing staff has a lot of value in this, and I made a suggestion that I think we should take into account, that they are the patients who are discharged after a hospital stay by a psychiatric pathology. These won't possibly be included in Connect 72 because it's a reflection that did the nursing and which I think is correct. And the same thing that's being implemented, we also need this debate so that we can step in and implement something else. I want you to get back in this Parliament and talk again about the areas of clinical management, because that has a positive impact. I don't throw that debate out, I want you to keep talking about the clinical management areas here because I think they contribute something important to health and so I'll continue to defend them. Nothing else, Madam President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u241	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the profession of nursing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u242	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative and the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u243	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Acuña do Campo, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u244	Thank you, President. May 21 was Nursing Day, and on that day the nursing unions went out to the street to claim more templates. Clearly, nursing is a key part of our health system. It is the nursing that follows and continues to care, in addition to an integral projection of the needs of patients and patients; it is the nursing that helps in diagnostic techniques, who applies treatment and care to patients with greater continuity and proximity. But, however, the mismanagement that Mr. Feijóo is doing of our health is seriously compromising nursing, and both hospital nursing and primary nursing, including nursing training and, of course, the implementation of the different specialties. We are, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most healthy countries we form, but we are now one of the least healthy countries we hire. So we're one of the most healthy countries we export. In Spain 10,000 new nurses and nurses are graduated in the year, however, our health system is deficient in this specialty. The nursing ratio here is below the European average, Spain being the eighth country by the queue in numbers of professional nursing people, behind Croatia, Romania and neighbouring Portugal. We would need 135,909 professionals to reach the figures of the European average, which surrounds the 797 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants, while in Spain we are around 506. But these professionals, besides being few, are badly divided, there are huge differences between one autonomous community and another; differences that are growing and are becoming more and more worrying, so, while Navarre has 837 per 100,000 inhabitants, Canary Islands only has 208. At this moment, I'm sure the bench on this side is wondering how the nursing work is going in Andalusia, so, so that they don't ask themselves, for I already tell you: bad, it's wrong. But it's also bad in Murcia, Valencia and Balearic Islands. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, now from the 24th day you will stop looking at Andalusia, because you can look at many other places: to Extremadura, to Castela-A Mancha, to Cantabria, to Aragon, to Valencia, etc. By the way, let's hope you can look at Madrid too. But, except for the PP, which gives you to look south, the rest of the House will be wondering what we're interested in, which is how we're in Galicia on the subject of nursing. Well, we are, ladies, at number six, but on the tail. Here we have 501 nurses for every 100.00 inhabitants, which we are well below the 797 European average and well below the 831 Navarre. But the most disappointing thing is to compare this data with the endless lists of nursing professionals – exceptly trained and trained – on unemployment or making the bags to go out and join the more than 1,108 that are already in the world ahead. While that lady – who I will continue to refer to her saying that "no resignation or cessation" – now intends to justify the massive closure of summer beds in the lack of professionals due to vacations, while – I insist – the unemployment lists are full of professionals, something absolutely intolerable. Insufficient numbers of people who specialize in nursing and also very different as we look at one country or another in Europe, but also as we look at one autonomous community in Spain, and even if in Galicia we look at one health area or another, in a hospital or another and even in a service or in another hospital. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to this House an initiative, yes, to speak of nursing, Mr. Santalices, and the problems of nursing, but to speak seriously and not to continue taking their hair, as it seems the People's Party intends to do; an initiative asking to define the presences of nursing by patient and turn in each hospital specialty, because to know whether we have or not enough professionals, we must start by defining the needs, and from that point on, the needs of nursing are not the same in a plant that we have elsewhere. The needs are not the same in obstetrics as in pediatrics, nor in trauma than in internal medicine, and it is not worth, I insist, giving global figures but detailed by patient and turn, because global figures cover and modify the data. And, speaking of nursing, we also have to ask – and we will never tire of doing so – to recover the Primary Care Improvement Plan and the Mental Health Plan – both banished upon arriving Mr Feijóo – because with these plans, human resources could be consensualized and besides collecting nursing specialties. We also call for the removal of the replacement rate and eventuality in recruitment. You can't close your primary care schedules since June, because that's supposed to delete your attention at the most accessible level of the health system during the summer, nor can you hire a person to fill three vacancies on the same day and on the same shift, nor can you allow the little you hire to do, gentlemen, by no means, on your backs, on your recruitment lists. To cover the holidays of the professionals and the professionals, instead of closing the schedules or closing the beds, Mr Feijóo only has to go to the recruitment lists and hire one person for each vacant post, for all the time that this vacancy lasts, and not make miserable contracts, pettys, day contracts, hour contracts, guards contracts, Monday-to-Friday contracts, which are interrupted during the weekend to re-contract them on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, within the health group, nursing is the most punished by the cuts and the ill-health management of the People's Party. The rate of people in nursing unemployment is three times higher than that of medicine, which is to say!, and for every medical square destroyed by the People's Party, eight nursing facilities were destroyed. In addition, since every year we train about 10,000 people in nursing, who are destroying posts and who are not hired to fill the vacancies, these 10,000 people go directly to the unemployment list. By the way, I want to take advantage of this debate to ask the spokesperson of the People's Party to explain all this to the Counsellor's lady, neither dismissed nor terminated: that they don't have to close their beds in the summer, that they just have to look at the unemployment list and take the professionals from there who say they're missing because those who are working go on vacations. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is economic recovery as the People's Party assures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u245	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u246	...that nurses – and finished – recover their rights, professional careers, days of free will; that is, all they had when they arrived Feijóo to the Government. And of course, it is the nursing, Mr. Santalices, who takes care of the chronics and the other diseases contemplated in his specialties, with the full competence that entrusts him with his training, and for that, the administration must take into account the specialties. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what we socialists are asking for in our initiative today is that we respect and dignify nursing, because it is a key part of our public health system. We hope to have the support of the groups. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u247	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Galego Nationalist Block, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u248	In the Galego Nationalist Block we also agree in the claim of the role of nursing, because in the sanctuaries of Galicia's public health system, in that constant roadmap of the People's Party in front of the German Government, the staff is the main injured, damaged by a staff policy that mistreats the hired staff and mistreats the staff: overload care, mobility, rotation, precariousness, instability, not with respect to labour rights, obligates the total and permanent availability under penalties... and, apart from a constant and continuous deterioration of working conditions, means risk to the health care of the patients, risks to the health care of the Galicians and the Galicians. We agree that it is necessary for the Health Council to rectify the treatment given to professionals, correct the removal of the replacement rate, correct the recruitment policy and correct the abandonment of primary care. The People's Party not only approves and implements lethal labour reforms for the working class as a whole, but from the German Government they apply them enthusiastically, and in this application the Health Council is an advanced student: the Health Council is acting as one of the worst employers, as the worst. Eliminating public health jobs for private companies, a replacement rate which, year after year, eliminates Sergas staff – making it difficult to provide the service – contracts in a condition that nothing has to do with the agreement with trade union organizations, not hiring to fill vacancies, no work breaks, no vacations. In fact, these days we're watching the Councillor's spree and the Council try, once again, to regain responsibility for the closing of beds in the summer of the fact that the professionals take vacations. There are thick qualifications to define this issue, but, of course, Galician public health professionals do not deserve advice that deals with them in this way. In this connection we agree with what the initiative calls for, which is the improvement of primary care – which we have also seen systematically demanding from the Galician Nationalist Block. An importance of primary care, within health care, which is essential, which seems to everyone to agree on defining this importance of primary care, but all the steps taken by the People's Party in the Galician Union are right in the opposite direction. I have heard here the spokespersons of the People's Party speak of the importance of the entry door to the health system that represents primary care, but then, at the time of truth, all the steps they take are going in the opposite direction, in the direction of secondary primary care, in the direction of reducing the resources destined for it, both in human materials and in the capacity of resolution, in the loss of decision-making capacity, in the reduction of budgets, in the deterioration of infrastructure, in the paralysis of planned resources, in none of the staff. That's the real balance in primary care. That's why we agree with this initiative, but we tabled an amendment which we believe improves the text, because it is true that it is focused exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u249	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u250	...in the role of the nursing, but we take care that in the claims that it raises, both in the recovery of careers and in the elimination of the replacement rate, in the event of recruitment, the request for employment lists, because they are common to other professional categories, and the fact is that it is difficult for us to ask that all these issues be rectified exclusively for the nursing staff and not for all the professionals who are affected. That is why we tabled this amendment, and also an amendment to recognize the relevant role of nursing in the care of patients and chronic diseases, but we believe that it should not be done alone, but that they should lead this process but within a coordinating role with the rest of the health professionals who must take care of these chronic patients, with which, hoping that the amendments tabled by the Nationalist Block in Wales will be affected, we will vote favourably on that objective to dignify one of the pillars of the health system, as is the nursing staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u252	Good evening-night to the passionate public that stays in the room. Our organization, our Parliamentary Group, the Left Glaga Alternative, will support the initiative presented by the Socialist Party, although we present a series of amendments, which I will explain, which seek to improve the approach made. For us, the nursing situation is a clear example of how austerity policies and cuts lead to austerity and elimination of fundamental rights such as the right to health. Since the People's Party took over power in Galicia, they have been more than 2,000 professional health workers eliminated from the public service, and a large part of them – close to 80% – nursing staff. This causes, in the set of Sergas appropriations, both hospitalized and primary care, the nursing situation is really regrettable about their conditions and the level of stress they have to bear by the workload they assume, as good professionals they are, although the conditions are regrettable about ratios. According to data from the European Union itself, in order for Galicia to reach the average of the European Union of nursing staff, we would need to immediately hire 8,500 professionals, just to reach the average, not even to be above the average. If you don't, we're in situations like the one that happens, for example, at the Salnés comarcal hospital where, on the third floor, on a good part of the day – for 12 hours – there's only one nurse and one assistant to care for the 14 patients who can have that plant. And in the face of that situation, for example, what this councillor decided was to close that third floor and not put a date back to opening. Which demonstrates the lack of commitment of the Galician Union to health care and the well-being of patients in the Sergas set. It's not only that there are not professionals hired, but that, in addition, retirement amortizations, increases in workloads, not coverage of all types of casualties, indicates that, in the end, the ratios are much below what this country would need, and that the pressure level is increasing for each of these workers, the pressure level which means not only difficulty in carrying out their work, but even a decrease in the quality of care, which is not due to the work of these people but to the inefficiency and ineffectiveness, the lack of commitment of those who say Sergas. This, coupled with 21% budget reduction in hospital policy by the Galician Council since you govern, is contributing to the situation of hospital quality and of the system as a whole, being in absolutely unacceptable elements and requiring deep investment in order to improve the current situation. In that sense, we suggest not only that we accept the initiative put forward by the Socialist Party, but that there are some criteria that we must also improve and that is why our amendments go along that line. The first is to take into account specialized nursing so that things like the ones that are happening now don't happen: we talked about a little while ago about this new nursing home care plan, which is done with the same professionals that there was no increase; or, for example, how in recent times the midwives have to take care of the cytology of non-serious people, which increases their workload without that it involves an increase in the professionals they care for. So we were considering, in one of our amendments, the need to increase the criteria for specific nursing. We also plan the elimination of precariousness in this sector, because, if it is unacceptable that contracts are made for weeks, days, it is also unacceptable that hour contracts are made and situations are given where, for example, if you can propose a two-hour contract if you average, more than 30 or 40 kilometres from your residence and if you do not accept it, if you delete yourself from the recruitment lists, which is really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u253	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u254	...a truly unacceptable situation, so we believe that these types of contracts must be eliminated. I remember when it judiciously fought this practice that the canteen companies had to hire from Monday to Friday not to pay for the rest, and the Sergas, the Public Administration, hires from Monday to Friday, or for days, just not to pay or not take the rest. So we are going to support the proposal and we hope that our additions will be taken care of, but even if the AGE's vote is not taken, it will be positive to the Socialist Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u256	Thank you, President. Health cuts are precarious and can dehumanize treatment with the patient, and even death. A year ago, I peaked, a patient died because the professional who had to care for him wasn't replaced, and they just fined Sergas, compensation to that family, a hundred and a thousand euros. Salary cuts in contracts, increase in unemployment in the sector, overwork, reduction in wages, free days, in the coverage of low-employment and, above all, elimination of recruitment of replacements and the provision of work, involve fewer staff doing health care; more workloads, longer working hours, higher labour stress and, therefore, lower performance and higher chances of error; i.e. lower quality of care. As I have little time, I will focus my intervention around one of the points of the initiative, the recovery of the Primary Care Improvement Plan. Of course, the steps that are taking in Galicia go the opposite way. What is needed in times of crisis is not privatizing and introducing profit as a distorting element of the national health system. What is urgently needed, among other things, is to reorganize the public health system towards primary care. The empowerment of primary care is key for the current health model to be sustainable. In order to exercise this spinal axis of the care system, primary care must meet a number of basic requirements: adequate infrastructure, correct equipment and equipment, trained professionally and in sufficient numbers according to established ratios, active agendas that allow effective time management, implementation of diagnostic and therapeutic techniques – today's hospital-acquired techniques –, telemedicine empowerment and teaching and research activity. Priority must be given to primary care because it is where prevention activities are carried out – useful to cope with chronic illness – where the patient is known around him – with attention throughout his life – where professionals trained to manage chronicity, where health education is done with the promotion of healthy habits and high care, where patient care is ensured, and where the coordination of all care should be centralized, including hospital care. In order for the level of primary care to perform these functions, it is necessary to promote the commitment and active involvement of professionals, to date being abused by the administration. And also regaining the plan of improvement driven by the progressive government of the bipartisan. This plan should be developed by 2013, and it has driven measures in relation to human resources, with improvements in the quality of care and clinical management, which have greatly enhanced the care role of primary care. After years of progress there would have to be a new political impulse, now non-existent, to regain lost time. Until now, the quality of the public health system would be maintained minimally thanks to the efforts of professionals and users who, putting everything on their side, have been palliating, to a greater or lesser extent, the serious attacks that Alberto Núñez, Rocío Mosquera and the Government of the Union are committing against a goodly precious public health. And by the way, in the last few days, with the new bed closures, you don't think about stopping on that line because they have no other goal than to end public health and hand it over to private companies from which the advisor comes: to large banks, to investment funds, to speculators who just try to earn the cost of our pockets and to our health. I support the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u257	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. People's Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, in this non-law proposal, I believe that today's debate was well-ordered on the subject that there were two topics followed and the two related to nursing – it began that these two non-law propositions speak of nursing. We just talked, a few moments ago, about Connecta 72, where nursing has a role, of course, very relevant, not to say fundamental. And in addition, his work in decision-making also became clear, because they themselves contributed to the Conecta 72 Program... they suggested they should not include in the same discharges that occur in the psychiatric services. And now we're talking again about a topic – it's also important – like what the Socialist Party brings, and in what they mix several concepts, to see if we can clarify some of them. For example, on the replenishment rate it is quite true that the desirable is 100 percent, this is a state rule but it is not possible to comply with it in view of the economic problem we are experiencing at the moment. But it's true that very important steps have been taken: we start with a 10% replenishment rate and we're at a 50% replenishment rate, which is going to wear out specifically this year. And it's also published an offer, an OPE, specifically nursing, although it includes other categories, in which there are 80 nursing squares, 6 matrons, 6 physiotherapists, 60 nursing assistants and 26 pharmacy technicians. And this in itself is important, what would not be desirable is that some of the points that you – which have been mutilated by Mrs Prado – introduce in this proposal no law could open a question that for me is already closed, which are the subjects of the medical competences of the nursing staff, I think is perfectly bound by competition. I think it's about integration and coordination work in health care, but I don't think we should insinuate, go back to the old and rancio debate that was held for many years as a "paper, competition from another person", as a war; this is not the case and I hope it doesn't go around there either. I value the role of nursing -- how am I not going to give it to her? -- she has a lot of value especially in the care of the chronic patient, as she also has in the acute -- she has no doubt a very important value -- and, in the field of mental health, the role of nursing is basic and I think she can play more, I think she can play more. There's a subject that you've touched on in the past and that we give him a lot of importance. Yesterday, the members of the Association of Family and Community Nursing Directive were with us, and they raise a subject that seems reasonable because they have a specialty and their training is long – they even spoke, I understand, seven years in the formation of that family and community specialty. What they ask is that people who have this training gradually become integrated, that they incorporate these squares into the O.P.O.P.S. and into the coverage of squares within nursing. In his proposal, the subject of specialty remains a bit diluted, and they also waged – they have been with us – to make care changes in the health care issue, basically referring to the topic of chronicity in primary care. But, of course, you left this subject a bit of a past. And then there's another issue that's very important, that you played here, and I agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u259	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u260	... –I will finish, Madam President – which is the theme of professional career. I think the subject of professional career is interesting to the extent that it can be arranged and when it is possible for everyone: for nursing staff, for medical staff and for those with professional careers. Therefore, we understand that proposals within the nursing staff are reasonable, in this case we are not going to support their initiative because we understand that the nursing staff on which to support them is essentially on the subject of specialties. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u261	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo. Give a voice to Mrs. Acuña's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u262	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the groups and announce that we will accept the amendments that have been tabled to our initiative to understand that what you want is to improve the situation of nursing professionals within the public health system. As for the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Party, the truth is that I have no words, I thought I would support the initiative but in the end they will follow yours, Mr Santalices. First of all, I have to tell you that the topic of the specialty of family and community nursing has already been dealt with at the bodies of our group, recently, in Commission 5a, by a question that the Government answered us saying that they were already working on it, not in the creation of that particular specialty, but in taking into account the specialties as a whole. Finally, I told him that you seem to follow his own, that it's nothing but hiring a single person—after that job he did to the nursing—to cover three vacancies, although that's supposed to be in three different services on the same shift. Theirs, which is to close primary care schedules and hospital beds while the unemployment lists are full of professionals and, meanwhile, the lady neither resigned nor terminated – which she incomprehensiblely follows in front of public health – justifies those closures saying she has no professionals. You seem to give the Germans, the English, perfectly trained nursing professionals – by the way, spending money on that training of all the Greeks and the Greeks – and then again spending the money of the Greeks and the Greeks on buying machines to the friendly companies to replace nursing care, direct home care at the foot of the bed by machines and phone calls. Double the cost, Mr. Santalices, to be treated worse. Yours, which looks like it's no other...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u263	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u264	...because it destroys the public health system, destroying the nursing system in order to benefit – I insist – to the private, the friendly companies that you always seek with your management. We regret that I do not support this initiative which, by the way, is suggested, as a whole, by our country's nursing group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u265	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the implementation by the Government of Greece of a plan of employment in the field of research, training and transfer of rural knowledge and the measures to be taken
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u266	No amendments were tabled to this initiative. Mr. Sánchez has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u267	Good evening. Well, in May 2013 an agreement was approved in this Parliament to create a working group to implement a series of measures to encourage the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity. The German Government failed to comply with this unanimous agreement of Parliament, only did two preliminary meetings without further continuity. The first point of this agreement was: "the provision of technical and human resources to the specialized Commercial Offices for services to promote the incorporation of young people and girls into agricultural activity, with the functions of study, screening and follow-up of projects for incorporation and technical advice and management of agricultural holdings." The point of incorporating this point from that proposal was that, for us, it is essential to ensure the success of many initiatives to incorporate into agricultural activity. Where knowledge transfer and innovation are indispensable, as well as constant monitoring and counselling of projects. Despite this agreement, the line of the Rural and the Sea Council was to continue with the progressive deterioration of the comarcas agricultural offices, applying the simple system that systematically does not cover the vacancies of those people who cease to perform their function. We can put many examples of local agricultural offices where there are no techniques left and there is only one administrative to open the door, collect papers... and they can't fulfill that function that we believe is paramount – investment necessary and that would have secure profitability – of dynamization, revitalization, counselling, follow-up and that they don't have to be restricted only – as we said – to the agronomic theme, but they also have to see sociologists, economists, people experienced in marketing, etc. We think rural needs that investment in knowledge. Well, we've recently known the intention of amortizing 130 square places in the Council's employment relationship, of which 60% correspond to the comarcal agricultural office squares. This is to confirm what we have already said, of course, those squares that are intended to be amortized already correspond to people who are not playing that role, are empty squares. Another of the key factors for the Galician agriculture is research, public research, where key aspects such as forage crops and cultivation techniques must be studied for this transition to a less dependent income from the purchase of thought and other inputs, the consequent reduction of costs and the ability to compete on equal terms with the rest of European countries who do have this condition, study of vegetable varieties and quality fruits adapted to our conditions and attractive to the sale, or eco-technical techniques for the protection of crops, improvement of the efficiency of animal nutrition, efficiency of production systems, cultivation techniques in sectors with potential for diversification of our agricultural sector, etc. And many more that must be fundamental pillars for our future. Well, since the most important research centre in this country, the ICAM in Mabegondo has suffered irreversible cuts in recent years, from 2012 to 2013 and no less than 36% of the investigator's staff have been reduced, just one example. The situation, on the other hand, of the lack of expectations of university agricultural graduates, of the Higher Polytechnic of Lugo, makes these students empty. And in the branches where, ten years ago, they enrolled more than 100 students per specialty, today it's 10, 12, 15 at most. That scares the professionals themselves, teachers of this university, for their continuity and for the future of this institution. In agricultural training, the cuts have also been drastic in recent years by cutting human and material resources in agroforestry training and experimentation centres. Once again, I will repeat that, recently, this statistics has been published on the future of agricultural holdings in which 60% of the population is over 60 years old – of agrarian population, of landowners – of agricultural holdings. So in order to keep the agricultural population at levels similar to those we have today, we would have to incorporate, in the next period 2016-2020 – I put it, 2021... – successfully thousands of people – and this is not an exaggeration – thousands of people, if we take into account that there are 79,000 landowners and 60% of those are 60 or more years old, if we talk about thousands of incorporations we're not wrong and we're not exaggerating. Despite this serious situation we continue to think that there are conditions in the rural Greek and potential to reverse it. As was stated in the agreement adopted in May 2013 in the Italian Parliament, there exist in rural empty dwellings that lose value daily, there are land, there are renewable energies, there are sectors with potential market exit, there is an appreciation for the product of quality outside the borders, and only a coordinated policy for this objective, to create wealth from agricultural activity. This would require an integral plan that is not the subject of this initiative, which focuses on a fundamental aspect for us, which is research, training and the transfer of knowledge. Urgent measures are needed, simply to maintain the level of the agricultural population, but we believe that, in addition, the objective should be more ambitious. As I said, there are many underdeveloped sectors in our country, many abandoned and idle resources that could be used to create young people's initiatives. There is a great margin and a great need for developing a sector of transformation focused on quality foods that generate added value and employment. And change will have to come through new paradigms of sustainability, agroecology, diversification, the application of renewable energies, prioritising research and innovation for the creation of different products and services of quality. And for that, there is nothing but the public research and transfer system of knowledge of innovation and technical support. There's no other alternative in agriculture, we've tried them in recent years. Private technical support advisory systems have not worked – they have failed, failed – they have not been able to give the technicians a framework of work to work in the Brazilian countryside with stability and can truly become experts in their field. He failed. So there is no other solution than a public research, training and counselling system. As you know, countries such as Norway, Denmark and the United States, which in recent years have been empowering this public system, with recruitment, as well as staff. And we also believe that the public system can get out of the economy and that it can create public employment which, in turn, generates private employment. That's why our proposal contains a number of points that we believe can be, even added others, but that for us were essential to implement what we called a plan of research employment, training and transfer of knowledge in rural areas. First, that proposal to amortize the 130 rural council squares affecting agricultural offices, agricultural research centres, in addition to the firefighting system, and proceed to cover these 130 squares. They are necessary, they are profitable; if we talk about economic quantities, we will see that they are insignificant alongside, for example, what is spent on extinguishing fires, and with a less productive result, by the way. Contraction of 150 technicians covering agroforestry production areas, food processing processes, marketing, financing, project titration, improvement plans for a plan for incorporation into agricultural activity for the period 2016-2021 – it is necessary to successfully incorporate thousands of men and women –; strengthening of ICAM staff to return to staff levels in 2011, at least; covering the vacancies currently existing in agroforestry training and experimentation centres. Then, a plan for the Higher Polytechnic School of Place that defines goals and means necessary for research in teaching. And, of course, the PDR sent to Brussels, 2014-2020, is being modified by introducing a new model of advice and research based on the public system and its rationalization. An observation from the European Commission said that the model sent to Europe was solely focused on the knowledge of the regulations. I mean, it's a clearly bureaucratic approach, and we had to focus it on innovation. And that Europe has to tell a Greek Government it's a crime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u268	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u269	I'm done. So we believe that, of many of the investments that could be contemplated in a Welsh Government, this is one of the most profitable. It's very profitable, it's investments that only depend on the conviction that there is no future in the Galician agriturismo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u271	Thank you, President. A characteristic of Greek agriculture over the last few decades and, above all, in the last five years, is the continuing reduction of the population employed in agriculture. This is the result, among other things, of a process of diminishing the number of farms, a decrease that will continue with full probability in the future as a result of economic inability, the fruit of neoliberal policies, and the lack of relief because the owners of the farms spend 60 years in most of them. And the progressive closure of agricultural holdings is emptying the lands they used to occupy, making visible one of the grounds for fires, that one year yes and another tear our mountains as well. The birth and growth of these abandoned farms of spontaneous vegetation, and the deterioration of productive infrastructures – research, roads, water systems, etc. – are also a consequence. It is such a state of deterioration that it is very difficult to recover agricultural activity in the near future. Accelerating demographic depression and the devastating effects of agricultural crises, linked to fires, are some of the main factors that can explain the existence of more than 200,000 empty homes in rural Galicia, 1,300 depopulated nuclei – approximately 50 per cent of the entire state – 30 white villages a year remain empty and 750 have only one inhabitants. Slowly, person by person, Galicia remains empty until it looks like a museum of shadows or a green desert. The policies of budget cuts and services that apply to the Union and the Council are not adequate for this dramatic situation to change. The rural environment budget is reduced by 15 million euros. It turns rural childhood schools into units to cut expenses, so one teacher has to attend, for example, 14 girls of different ages and educational levels in the same class; in this way, families with school-aged children leave in search of quality education. Health centres are also closed and health services restricted. These cuts, coupled with the abandonment of rural development policies and programmes, prevent our villages from staying alive. You have the opportunity, the Government of the Union, to collaborate and work to build an alternative, sustainable development model that provides quality of life for the population, and frees the population from depopulation. Policies that bet on agricultural vocational training, on decent employment in the agricultural sector, on the bet on the value of ours. Policies that enhance agricultural and livestock family farms. I'll support the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u272	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u273	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good night to all and to all. The truth is, we regret that this initiative is debated at an hour when it is quite difficult that a very important part of what we say here is going to have a translation outside. I believe that this should also be part of the reflection on what kind of parliamentaryism is being built and how Parliament wants to get closer to the people, as a Parliament that works at a pace that is to end soon, regardless of the translation that all this has. And I say this because we believe that we are, again, talking about a topic that is very important to the country, because we are talking about what the future of a basic sector is in our economy and that it could have much more potential if really the Galician Union had a real strategy of support and dimensioning, not only of production, but of what it has to do with innovation, with research in our country, in the specific area of everything that has to do with the agricultural and forestry field. Because, in view of the propaganda that on many occasions... not on many occasions, which we have repeatedly in this Parliament in the interventions that are taking place in front of the gallery, towards the public, in connection with this issue, Junta sells that there is important support for R & D+i – and, in particular, in the agricultural and forestry branch – when, in fact, what they are dismantling everything that was at this time and cutting in an alarming way all research projects. It has already been mentioned here how the entire advisory staff of the comarcal agricultural offices are being cut off, who are even going to be in a situation where they won't have any technical means to attend to bureaucracy; therefore, how will they serve and be rural dynamizing agents? how will they be able to support when they can't even do the paperwork they are legally obliged to do? I mean, they're crippling them in practice to be agents of any kind of activity. You are also – the People's Party – dismantling all rural-dependent training centres. We see how the personnel cuts and application of LOMCE are causing all the higher education cycles to be lost in agrarian and forest branches that we had, such as dismantling Guísamo, Sergude and now, too, how the last top titration that was left in a private centre in Coristanco will be eliminated. And we understand that, even though training has to be public, what makes no sense is that everything is dismantled without any alternative. And how will there be relief, quality, innovation in farms if there is no least opportunity for training on this land in our country? We also see how the technology research centres for knowledge transfer in many areas – which were also European reference – are also suffering from the tough policy of the People's Party cuts. We're going to remember how the Bos embryonic Transfer Unit was dismantled four years ago, which was a reference center for genetic improvement and which was key to transferring this improvement to farms. As at present they are endangering the germplasm bank, denying it the essential public resources to guarantee the conditions of conservation, characterization, multiplication, evaluation. And, therefore, we also see here another important problem: dismantling the Galician Agricultural Platform, made up of a lot of efforts and the collaboration of the General Directorate of R & D+i in the 2005-2009 legislation. You're also dismantling that Glaga Agrarian Platform.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u274	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u275	They're also clearly putting the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre at a standstill: more than 50 percent of the research squares are vacant because retirements have occurred, and they don't cover the vacancies and then what they do is amortize them. There are no funds owned by the Galician Union, with which no other kind of funds can be collected from European institutions, which need a minimum investment and which could then raise funds. I mean, you're totally dismantling the entire policy of innovation and research. They're showing that they have no strategic vision of the country, that really for the only one who's here is to go and close all the little that was on this land and clearly, what they're showing is that they don't believe that the agricultural sector is a sector in the future. We understand that agriculture is fundamental in any country, that the most advanced countries bet on their agriculture, and rather what you want is that agriculture disappears and the country disappears. We will therefore support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u277	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr. Sánchez, I think I should have remembered that I had only been to a meeting, had been an afternoon of July an hour of prime team quite similar to this initiative. And to call that working group, the truth is that you're very generous, because practically the work that's been done, at that one meeting, that's when you set up a working group, looks like a lot to me. We were saying, particularly, that I was putting two premises which, unfortunately, were met, i.e., it seemed absurd to be wanting to constitute a supposed working group for the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity, where the same person was present, when he got out of there, through the DOG, would put all the difficulties immediately through the orders for young people to be incorporated into agricultural activity. We were talking to the same person that every year I saw in the budget diminish the game to incorporate young people into agricultural activity. So that we were to be sold there that we had to invent new strategies to incorporate young people into agricultural activity and that those who didn't need this strategy, but had already decided to join in agricultural activity, we put all the stones in the way, we seemed totally incongruent. We created, therefore, that we had to start with concrete, tangible, immediately, and it was not being complied with. In fact, I never heard of that supposed working group again. And, of course, you bring here an initiative that anyone who reads it says is quite logical. I, as I am simple, as Mrs. Pacín says, well, quite logical. Of course, but it never ceases to be an amendment to the entire policy that this government has been making for these seven years. I mean, you come, Mr. Sánchez, proposing everything contrary to what the Government has been doing seven years. Sure, you're talking about the withdrawal of the RPT. I've already told him on one occasion: less bad than being removed from the RPT because how many years have we discussed that, in fact, there was an agricultural extension agency in which no one was... By the way, the Vila de Cruces agency has been homeless for a month and a half, in the Vila de Cruces. Not that there are no technicians, there is no one. There's a poster that says you'll look at it, the mayor is watching to see when someone else comes... i.e., that was the reality. And do you remember they said to us: No, no, but if that's a lie, that the posts are in the RPT, that they existed in the RPT? So now, at least, they don't exist either in the RPT and we can discuss it; until then there was no problem because they were in the RPT. And then they made the political decision to make the agricultural extension agencies disappear, through three pathways: one, whaling them of content; that is, the agricultural extension no longer does anything, practically, therefore, there is no demand because there has ceased to do that work that he did for many years – and very well – of initiatives, of technical work, of preparing projects. He stopped doing it, whistling them with content and, as you said, not covering the squares; that is, they're biologically eliminating them. It's the extermination by biology; that is, as they retire, wherever they are, without any kind of planning, they're amortizing the squares and without any kind of reorganisation of the service. You're talking about reinforcement of the ICAM. You and I went on a visit to the ICAM, and I remember that the staff there, who came from the Council, asked why there had to be so many cows to do experiments, if I hadn't arrived with one. Of course, then, how are we going to ask this board to strengthen the ICAM if we consider that for us to have 60 cows so that there is a sufficient sample, which can be demonstrated, if they arrive with 2 or 3? And he spoke clearly – and there he is in the budgets – of dismounting the services that provided a center that we had of reference to the Greek level to move them to a building that we're going to do in Mouriscade, which will cost 3 million euros, to do the same and charge people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u278	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u279	...for analysis. You're talking about introducing the new research advisory model based on the empowerment and rationalization of the public system. How dare you? Counselling, research, rationalization, the public system... are terms that this government fully agrees with. And, of course, you're talking about research. If you had talked about IC+2, RIS3 or 4.0, I'm sure if you were the Industry Advisor, I'd say, there's what I was doing. But with those terms, they're certainly not going to support us. Finally, we will support this initiative. I think it will be unsuccessful because – I repeat – this government has done everything contrary to what this initiative proposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u280	Thank you, Mr. García. People's Group. Mr. Freire Abeijón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u281	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. In particular, it should be pointed out that in agroforestry training and experimentation centres to date, the existing template covers the training needs required by the agroforestry sector, both in regulated training, through vocational training, as well as non-regulatory training, through phytosanitary courses and agrarian business skills, mainly because in recent years, there have been no decline in the number of staff and no elimination of any jobs, increasing in 2010 two teaching squares in Lourizán in particular. And the vacancies of teachers and other staff at the agroforestry training and experimentation centres are being filled by the procedures enabled for such purposes, keeping a training offer as adjusted as possible to the actual needs of demand and always within irrevocable parameters of formative quality. The amortized squares are all of them workers, trying to keep the team of researchers intact, not selecting vacancies for their amortization, and at the same time betting on the R & D+i centers, transforming the Ingacal, the Galego Food Quality Institute, into a food quality gale agency. By making an effort in this complicated economic situation, 2 doctors and 2 pockets were incorporated into the research centres in 2014, and 4 doctoral and 2 scholarships were requested for 2015, with contracts of around five years duration, and at the same time annually they deal with R+D+i projects around 35 people, most of whom are auxiliary workers, for field and laboratory tasks. But I think it is necessary to remind your lords that over the past few years, actions have been carried out through improvement plans from 1999 to 2015, in which more than 378 million euros have been invested in aid, of a total investment of more than 902,000 euros. In the following period, however, investment measures are included in agricultural holdings; measures which are geared towards improving the overall performance of agricultural holdings, which are understood to improve economic performance per unit of work and to improve production conditions, both labour and health, environmental and technical. And it aims to increase the competitiveness of agricultural holdings while at the same time meeting environmental conditions, landscape maintenance, hygiene and animal welfare and safety at work. All of this within a framework to improve the quality of life of the producers and their surroundings. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to develop by the applicants a business plan or business plan, in addition to focusing on the aspects of climate change that affect each agricultural holding. And it is no less certain that there has been a incorporation of young people into agricultural activity in the same period as I assumed that since 1999 aid has been granted for the incorporation of more than 7,477 young people into agricultural activity, with an average operating aid of approximately EUR 17,000, which was an average annual investment of EUR 9 million, assuming more than EUR 134 million in this period. The same indicators are maintained to monitor the measure of incorporation of young people into agricultural activity for the period 2016-2020: that all such investments will be subsidisable both material and intangible necessary for the implementation of the business plan in general for the construction, acquisition, financial lease or improvement of immovable property, including also the purchase or lease with option of purchase of the new machinery, the equipment, up to the value of the product market, the purchase of land for a lower value...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u283	...to 10% of the subsidisable expenditure and the acquisition or conditioning of dwellings located on the rustic floor or in the rural centre, which must constitute the habitual residence of the new. The general costs linked to investment, such as fees for architects, engineers and advisers and fees relating to advice on economic and environmental sustainability, are also included in these feasibility studies, and the capital subsidy will reach a maximum of EUR 70,000, with 75% of funding from European funds. It will consist of an aid of EUR 20,000, which may be increased under the following conditions: depending on the range of investment executed, depending on the creation of additional employment on the holding and also depending on the area in which it is located, if it is an area with natural limitations or other specific limitations. It is also established indicators for the follow-up of the small holdings development measure in that period 2016-2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u285	I'm done, President. In recent years, the workload of a number of agricultural offices has varied greatly, focusing mainly on those areas where dairy activity has reached a high level of development, and focusing on those where the specific volume of work, in areas where the number of applicants for improvement plans...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u286	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u287	...and the incorporation of girls and boys, did it necessary. Nothing more and thank you very much. We cannot therefore accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u288	Mr. Sánchez... Are you going to talk or...? [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Oh, because there are no amendments... but we don't mind you talking three more minutes. You have the floor. No, we're in non-law propositions, not motions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if Mr. Sánchez understands that he has nothing to say, it's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u289	If it's glued, it's glued. Well, Mr. Freire pulled it from Wikipedia, but without any contrast to reality. I'd invite you to come with me to Sergude, to Guísamo, to the training centers you were talking about, to see how you were a year without a director in Sergude, or how you were without a class of students who were enrolled in a cycle in Guísamo, 14 hours a week, for lack of teachers, etc. Or I'd invite you to come to ICAM and talk to the staff there and see how from 2012 to 2013 they reduced 36%, an inexplicable decision. Mr. Garcia, I may seem naive, but I believe that the work of criticism of the People's Party in the rural field is already continuing, because it is discredited in the sector. The politics of the People's Party in rural areas – it doesn't need to push much – is totally discredited, it just needs to talk to the people in the sector, to the people who know. It's a feeling of total cowardice, lack of efficiency in the use of resources, permanent cuts, lack of will in the attitude of those who want to do things, it's annoying for this administration, etc. So I think we need to start talking about alternatives for the future to the rural environment, which is what we are doing. You were talking about investments in incorporations, Mr. Freire, but that's exactly why. It is that this, investment in personnel, in counselling, is precisely to make these investments profitable, because reality is not that which you have painted, which is what the European Union writes about that which should be incorporation; the reality is that there is a lot of money-sharing that comes from Europe, but there is a high degree of failure, and it is money taken. And we know that; who knows the sector we know is that there is a high degree of failure in investments; we know that unnecessary investments are made and that in this country investments are made without a plan of viability, without a technical plan. So that's what we're saying: making these investments profitable. And for that, it takes personal work, much more when the staff you're training here has to get out to produce knowledge, etc. So this is the way, there's no other: either it's a public research, training and powerful counselling system or there's no future. It is not possible in this private advisory and research sector; it is not a sector that is capable of generating private research, training and counselling. And you're doing the opposite, you're dismantling the public system to leave desert the field of knowledge in rural Galician. Thank you very much for the support of the rest of the groups. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-09-DSPG112.u290	Thank you very much. We'll stop the meeting until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night, thank you very much.
