ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u1	We resume the session with point 6, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the social situation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u2	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u3	Mr. President, I would like to see you recovered. On Sunday night you had an undressed look; it was probably the shock. Look, before you get into the matter and without it being a precedent, I offer you an exceptional pact – that doesn't leave this room – today we don't talk about Andalusia or Vigo; it's reasonable. Mr. President, last Sunday the citizens showed you the exit door. It was a massive vote everywhere, it was a uniform vote in all institutions and it was a forceful, unappealable vote. So far you were ruling with an absolute majority in the state, in most of the autonomous communities and in many municipalities. They didn't want to hear what has been the evidence for a long time, which was being seen in the countless protests we've been living for years, which is the protest against a policy that citizens understand as bad. This day President Rajoy has been giving employment data. Yes, sir, they're true, but we have to talk about the conditions under which these jobs are being produced. We call it: fewer people working than ever, more precarious in employment, more rotation – from there comes that high number of contracts – and less pay. The indefinite work has passed to history. In indefinite jobs we are in the worst places in Europe, with Greece, Portugal and Poland. Even ILO has just denounced the scandal of false autonomouss; a scandal that is probably not fraud in legal terms but that, of course, it is labor fraud, as it is happening now, that people – especially new people – are being hired for a number of hours and making a real number much larger in working conditions where there is no guarantee. In Galicia, data are worse and believe that you've been a bad manager, which has worsened the country's situation and, of course, leaves a terrible legacy. You said – I quote it textually – when you get to the Government in this legislation: "Galice will lead economic recovery and social improvement." Today, comparing Galicia with Spain and the other communities, we see that we are among the worst positions. Economic growth in 2014? Worse. Projections for 2015? Worse. Employment no 2014? The sixth part of Spain; with you, 180,000 occupied less. German wager? They work less hours, they have less wages, and today we again know the scandalous data of poverty. In view of this, Mr President, the question is very simple: do you plan, after what happened on Sunday, to change your policies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I see you delighted with the results of the Socialist Party in Galicia. For if you are delighted with the results of the Socialist Party in Galicia you can understand that when this party that represents nothing more and nothing less than exceeds it by more than nine percentage points of vote and that this party that represents in Galicia exceeds the set of the party that I am part of in Spain by ten percentage points of vote – you celebrate at the end and at the end of nine points less as a percentage point of vote than the People's Party in Galicia – you will understand that, if you follow this way, every time to the Greeks the opinion of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party on the elections will matter less. I do care about people's opinions, and that's why, in spite of winning elections, we'll keep listening to people to keep winning elections and, if possible, with a wider majority of what we have today. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, if you make fun of a majority voter of the People's Party and mock the People's Party, which earns 65% of the Welsh mayors, 65% of the mayors with more votes than the rest, plus their situation – and you are from the electoral district of the Coruña – because there you are, Your Honor. But it gives me the feeling that you follow a manual, and the manual you're trying to do is not open internal problems in the Socialist Party in Galicia. You continue with those victories, from victory to ultimate failure. Your Honor, I come here to speak – because the Greeks consider it this way, since you are still a part of them – of the social situation in Galicia, and with great pleasure. Today, as you know, we have 25,000 unemployed less than a year ago, and we have 20,000 more people affiliated to Social Security than a year ago. And despite the fact that there are still obvious problems as a result of the profound economic crisis we are experiencing, you know that the sign of the economy in Galicia is changing from all the negative indicators when we reach the government to the positive indicators right now. And you also know that one of the reasons why the social situation in Galicia is better than the rest of Spain is because we improve the management of public services. And if it's true, Your Honor, because we've increased our attention to dependency, because we've increased social inclusion games, and nothing more and nothing less because we've been able to create 75% more social service squares than when you, in the time of economic kindness, ruled. And indeed, Your Honor, today – probably that's why you don't want to talk about it – we know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u6	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u7	...which are the data of the population at risk of poverty in Spain, and the data of population at risk of poverty in Spain are located in the fourth autonomous community with better data from Spain. Your Honor, you don't need to talk about Andalusia, just look at the statistics. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u8	Thank you. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u9	Mr President, if you want to persist in the mistake, it will not be this humble Member who dissuades you. If they're not wrong, it seems to me that as of June 13 you're going to rule in a minority part of the local population; but, in any case, that's what citizens want. By the way, the chronicles once again point to you as one of the possible Brutus who will stab Caesar Rajoy. I understand you have an interest in fleeing this reality. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, you literally destroyed the expectations of whole generations of new people in Galicia. They denied them their future and told them they had to emigrate or resign to have no minimum autonomy, which is the one that is achieved with work and with a decent salary. That's the reality of his government: whole generations ruined. Today we still have 95,000 homes with all members unemployed, and your objective response, which is there in budget data, is: less social expenditure, less health expenditure. With you, the ultimate historical indebtedness, the minimum historical investment. Do you know what your inheritance is? Inequality, obeisance, impoverishment and marginated new generations. In six years it has no real results, it's an overwhelming political failure. You'll tell me: it's not like that. Of course, for a minority in this country, for that 10% head of income, the situation with you is great, they have more benefits than before, and they're paying worse wages than ever. And in labor relations, we return to the law of the jungle, and above all there is an army of unemployed willing to lower their labor force every day. That's a policy for the minority. With you, the minority is getting richer and most are getting worse. Mr. Feijóo, yesterday President Rajoy solemnly said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u10	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u11	...that he would not exchange his policies. Do you follow that statement or will you listen to the voice of citizens and make a radical change in the politics that follows the Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u12	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u13	Thank you, Your Honor, for your humble intervention. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, you speak of stabbing, to whom? How did you treat your president? Your Honor, President Fraga has had the corresponding treatment... of a president who wins the election. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, you carry a voice with the three general secretaries of the Socialist Party; you will understand that, as they say here at the benches, for something will be. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, my loyalty doesn't have to be tested every day, my loyalty is a way of working since I get up until I get down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, I understand you didn't listen to people's message, we did. We won the elections and listened to people's message. People are all I care about. The opinion of a Socialist Party that is already a third force in most of the Greek cities will understand that is not my reflection. [[Murmurs.]] The alternative in Galicia to rule is still the People's Party, there's no alternative, and you know it, or you should know it. [[Murmurs.]] And as I have a lot of respect for people, the same people who have decided today that they are ruling - and we still have a third of legislation - we will continue to do so with that same respect for the truth and the votes, Your Honor. Now, if ever the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party had won the elections in Galicia, the Greeks should worry. Because if you've never won and now they're again confused between winning and ruling, that's a political regeneration problem that they have pending. And as long as they don't assume that ruling should be equal to winning and winning just as ruling, as is natural, you have a different way of understanding political life; so the Greeks have never given them a majority in this Parliament since their constitution. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have increased attention to dependence in double, despite the economic situation; we are Spain's second autonomous community with the highest percentage of services recognized in the dependency; we tripled home help; we have created 7,800 public social services squares, 76% more than when you rule; the Risga in Galicia is charging it 50% more than when you rule, and we're hiring people at Risk... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u14	Mrs. Gallego...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u15	...everyone who asks for the Town Councils. And so, Your Honor, when the statistics come out – today the whole press realizes, so you talk about something else –
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u16	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u17	...the latest data published by the INE on the survey of living conditions, we see that Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with the lowest poverty rate in Spain, 15.4%. When you ruled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u18	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u19	...the rate of poverty in Galicia was 20.6%, now it's 15.4%. Your Honor, these are the results, despite the economic crisis, of social services and of the social commitment of the People's Party to Galicia. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u20	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u21	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the Evaluation of Galician Citizenship in relation to the Management of Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u22	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, you have just spoken of democratic regeneration, and also mentioned in your speech to Manuel Fraga Iribarne. Look, you'll see by presiding over our seats is the motto "not by cutting democracy, they won't shut us up." It presides over this slogan on our seats because since the time of Manuel Fraga Iribarne this is the second plenary in which the total and absolutely anomalous circumstance is given that not all parliamentary groups can ask questions to the President; I refer to the parliamentary groups set up in this Parliament at the beginning of legislation fruit of the outcome of the polls. And this is the result of a change in the total and absolutely anti-democratic rules that aims to shield in this House a bipartisanism which does not fit the composition of this House, which does not exist in our society and which has caused the Nationalist Block to even appeal to the Constitutional Court. Look, Mr Feijóo, we didn't just do it to defend our right to ask questions at all control sessions, we didn't just do it to be able to have more initiatives as a parliamentary group, we did it to defend the right of all Members, the right of all parliamentary groups, the right of all citizens, because what is happening in this Parliament is not alien to the process of cutting rights that all society has to suffer. And by cutting off the right of Members, cutting off the right of parliamentary groups, the right of their representatives is being violated, the right that, normally in this House, all the problems and demands of society can be transferred. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, let me tell you something: today I will spare you that you speak of the Bipartite, that you mention the times in which I allegedly even was Minister of Industry in Madrid, because, in a protest for the situation that will be given for the second time in this plenary, I inform you, Madam President, that we have withdrawn the question that we had asked Mr. Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. So you don't expect any answers. President, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u25	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Jorquera, with all due kindness, I understand that you withdraw the question, but I would really like to, since you give me the opportunity, make some comment on it. You tell me that at other times there were a lot more questions to the president. As you will remember... well, there were more questions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, what you said is in the minutes and, therefore, allow me to reiterate the record of what you just said. [[Murmurs.]] I say you initially complain that there were few questions to the president. If you let me answer... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u26	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u27	I understand they're taking the question away, but I didn't withdraw the answer. And I will therefore answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughter]] I say that initially in this Parliament we could not ask the President, then he began to ask himself a full month, then the Bipartite arrived and in the Bipartite there were two questions from the Government to the President and one from the opposition – two questions from the Government and one from the opposition – with an essential difference, that the opposition was the majority of Galicia – it was the absolute majority of Parliament minus a scandal – and now, Your Honor, there are at least three questions from the opposition to the President. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] That means that the current president of the board is the president who most oral questions have answered in the history of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Applause]] Now, Your Honor, as I don't want the Greeks in any case to be left without the BNG's intelligent question, the BNG's question is how do you value six... of every ten Greeks negatively value the management of the Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With cordiality... [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, the Greeks have just valued politics in general last Sunday. If I tell you that in the survey you're referring to, there's some surprising data as well. The first thing that says that survey is that the universe is only 10 municipalities in Galicia. The rest of the municipalities are not put to the vote or the opinion. But that company says something that for nationalists should have some interest – by the way, coincides with the CIS, that's true – that 8 out of 10 Welsh people feel as Spanish as they are and that only 2 out of 10 feel more Greek than Spanish. In the same survey, in 2011, the evaluation of the Board was that 50 % of the Greeks approved and 50 % did not. Well, look, Your Honor, in 2012, a year later, the Galician People's Party increased its seats and its absolute majority. So, Your Honor, about surveys, after what we heard in the election campaign, there are a lot of opinions. Let's go to the data, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u28	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u29	I am the President of the Union who I have the honour to reply more often to the democratic opposition in Galicia. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u30	Mr. Jorquera, you gave up the question... but let me talk, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your question is asked... No, there are no allusions to which they intervene... No, no, no, Mr. Jorquera. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mr. Jorquera, there are no allusions, and you know that. Your question is asked in writing. Excuse me, will you let me talk? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you'll let me talk to you, you'll talk to the People's Group, too, please. Your question is asked in writing. You have the right to renounce it publicly, and the president answers a question you have raised in this plenary in writing. You said here – and everybody heard him – that he gave up his question. What they don't fit now is allusions. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have no word, Mr. Jorquera, you have no word... No, no, Mr. Jorquera, sit down, please, I don't want to have to call you in order. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sit down, Mr. Jorquera. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, sit down, I don't want to have to call you in order. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, you have a call to order and sit down, please. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We continue. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da María Consuelo Martínez García of the G.P. Joint, on the disposition by the Galician Council of an industrial plan for investments and social policies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u31	To put your question, Mrs. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, President. The pride that we've just seen now is what led to the election results that you have, among other things; that great success that you intend to sell, but that gives us equal to all the Greeks because we all and all know that the great loser of these elections was the People's Party. So propaganda is over, manipulation is over, media control is over. The end of the anti-social and austere policies of the People's Party has come; policies that have led to great social inequality and to a severe impoverishment of the working class, of the common people; policies that we can summarize in a return tax that benefits those who have the most wealth. A labour reform that left a row of lay-offs, closures of pemmes, disappearance of the Welsh industry, millions of benefits for big businesses and fortunes and misery for the worker. According to EPA data, in 2007 in Galicia, the difference between the average of the three most paid and the three best paid tranches was EUR 1,961. In 2013, this difference reached EUR 2,458. In other words, during the crisis the wage gap between the most lucrative and those who grew by 25% in Galicia; labour poverty is being installed among the employed persons in part-time and with temporary contract; a regressive educational law, LOMCE, whose government and you yourself applauded and applied diligently against the interests of the people of Galicia, because it invades the competences of the Greek Government, has a classy character, abandons the student with special needs and condemns the language to their practice of disappearance of teaching; the privatization of public services, including public health, condemned the city of Vigo to private or privatized health of the people, and draws a health map of great territorial imbalance; the attraction of public workers and overexploitation that are suffering as a result of the deterioration of public services; the abandonment of our fleet in favour of their employment as a result of their jobs; the impoverishment of the non- Mr President, now that we're in between campaigns and you can take advantage of it to lower the propaganda level a little bit and to the worst election result of the People's Party throughout the state in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u34	...–end–, do you think you'll change your economic and social policy? What do you have to tell the President of the Government to the Greek people in the impeccable message you just sent from the polls?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you ask me about the Industrial Investment Plan, social policy, population fixation and investment in R & D+i. That's the formulation of your question. Therefore, you will understand that in six minutes answer which is the industrial plan of Galicia, the model of R & D+i, the plan for employment, the demographic plan and a social plan would require at least a little more time, if possible. In any case, Your Honor, if I would like to answer, as far as possible, the questions to which you refer. Look, Your Honor, if you ask me whether the Greek economy in 2014 has grown as we would like, the answer is no; it has grown less than we would. Now, that increase in the economy was capable of having 25,000 people on unemployment lists in Galicia today and 20,000 more members of Social Security. I understand, Your Honor, that this is not worth any discussion, because it's objective data. You tell me about the industrial plan. He knows that the Industry Plan 4.0 was a journey in Parliament and in the Galiciath Competitiveness Committee – where the majority and employers' unions are indeed – and the Board of Directors approved it a few weeks ago, after almost accepting the amendments and agreeing to it within the Competitiveness Committee. The aim is to move from 13,5 % of industry's GDP to 20 % in 2020. The budget for this, from an economic point of view, is EUR 600 million. Some of the results that we are focusing on is Industry Plan 4.0 – by the way, the only community, along with the Basque Country, which has put this plan – allow me, are in five sectors. The first of them, automotion. You know that PSA-Pueot-Citröen is investing in Galicia 600 million euros and you know that we have a contract for the next ten years for a manufacture of more than 2 million vehicles. And this year we're already making a production that exceeds 400,000 vehicles a day. In the naval sector, despite the difficulties, there are now 1,400 million euros in contracts, both on public shipyards and on private shipyards. Of course there will be more in the next few months. In the agri-food sector you know that the first food industry in Galicia, which is Coren, together with the Economic Council, is running a contract of 24 million euros to further innovate and extract value added products to improve the productivity of our agri-food industry. In the aquaculture sector, Cervo, the Navy is shining, will become one of Spain's largest aquaculture production sites; in fact, a new aquaculture plant is already engaged for language breeding, which means an investment of 24 million euros and 76 jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u37	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u38	...by the company. And finally, Your Honor, in the aeronautical sector, we have two excellent news: an investment of 26 million euros from a leading company in the area of Vigo, the Delta company, and also the commitment of the Government of Galicia along with the Government of Spain to, nothing more and nothing less, convert the Rozas aerodrome into a research centre, into a technology center and an industrial center of unmanned aircraft.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u40	Your Honor, I don't think you have enough value for Galicia's capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u41	Mrs. Martínez García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u42	Mr. President, I value Galicia's full potential, I know that I live in a rich country; what I am not clear is whether the People's Party is able to take out that potential and take advantage of it, because it seems to only take advantage of it to destroy it. The question wasn't so complicated, it was really all based on an industrial plan and job creation. It's the only one who can save our demography, the only one who can recover social justice and the only one who can bring our youth back to the country. The problem is, you only stop at industry 4.0 advertising in a micro-enterprise country, where most companies don't reach six workers. What country are you thinking about when you come here to tell these things? You live in propaganda, pure propaganda, and the result of the polls is that. People don't understand it because they see that their speech and reality go on completely different paths, they're completely diverging. It speaks of 25,000 people less unemployed, but do you really think you can escape from the debate about the quality of job creation that is being created, precarious employment, with wages of misery, part-time, that cannot even meet the basic needs of families? And you come here to assume 25,000 unemployed less! Why don't you tell us how many Galicians and Greeks have emigrated? Why don't you talk about the problems and come over here and tell us anything more than long? It speaks of the automobile and Citroën, you, who applauded Citroën's double salary scale and the maximum flexibility of Citroën's workers and workers; an automotive sector where industrial accidents, especially in the hand, of the carpal tunnel, are on the agenda, leaving young boys and girls with total futility. But what country are you talking about? You're talking about the naval. But you went for Ferrol? Do you know what's going on in the naval?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u44	Mr. Feijóo, please be serious, Mr. President, and you told this country if from here you stop being president next year you have or plan to do something to recover the wealth of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. The name 4.0, Your Honor, is a European regulation. I suppose even if you don't agree with the European Union, we do and we will, therefore, have the legitimacy to use it. But if you don't like Industry 4.0, you should probably run Europe's destinations. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, about Citroën, you don't agree with the automotive industry and its conditions. Well, that's your opinion, of course, but we believe 40,000 people working in that industry well deserve government support. Labour relations within the industry, Your Honor, certainly are union issues, but I think if we're not going to get that contract for the next ten years, you wouldn't now talk to me about the working condition and discussion of PSA-Peugeot-Citroën minority trade unions, which are approved by the majority unions, as you should know. I'm worried about 40,000 families, and starting with work, improving their working conditions. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to pursue an industrial plan, indeed. And we know that in the German industries the key is the small and medium sized ones, we know it perfectly well. That's why we want to keep betting on small and medium. And that's why we are, along with the innovation centres in Galicia, working and nothing but mobilising 50 million euros to make 11 new joint ventures between the Greek universities, the Greek companies and the Greek innovation centres, which is 70 million euros of investment in the last two years and more than 270 new high-quality jobs in Galicia. Your Honor, you talk to me about demography, I'm surprised, because you know that this government is the first one that brought a demographic plan to Galicia, the first one; and you know that in Galicia tax deductions per second and third child are Spain's highest; and you know that the increase in public kindergarten squares is nothing more and nothing less than 70% more than that we had in economic kindness; and you know, Your Honor, that there have never been as many paternity and time flexibility permits as the legislation currently protects. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, you talk to me about demography and you know – you should know – that since 1980 we have started a fall-down curve every year, from 1980 to now. And in 1980, I don't think the responsibility of this government was. I assure you that I'm worried about that matter, and I think it's good that the left ones, including the breakers, start to be concerned about that matter. I'm also concerned about emigration, Your Honor, and that's why the rate of emigration of young Greeks, between 24 and 35 years of age, is one of Spain's lowest. It's not like we have fewer young people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u47	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u48	...don't cheat on the lonely; within which we have it is one of Spain's lowest. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's why, Your Honor, today we have over 400 researchers in the Galician university system, and that's why today, despite the economic recession, we have practically the same number of teachers that we had in economic goodness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u49	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u50	And for that, Your Honor, I will continue to work for Galicia, but really Galicia, the real Galicia, the Galicia of the majority. The German Republic, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u51	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u52	...it's not constituted at the moment. That's his Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u54	Constitutional Galicia and statute is our Galicia, which is why we work every day. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u55	Thank you very much, President. We continue the development of the agenda, the non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the labour situation of the workers of the subcontracts of telecommunications operators
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u56	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To make it speak to Mrs. Prado Cores of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u57	Very good morning. The Galego Nationalist Block brings here this initiative at the request of workers and workers; workers and workers who cannot be in the gallery of guests who are banned from the presidency of this Parliament, on the prohibition of the People's Party, who consider that Parliament is their own estate and who can do whatever they want, whether there are regulations or no regulations. An initiative that yesterday the Galician Nationalist Block has also led to the Congress of Deputies and that we will not cease to bring as many times as it takes here to this Parliament and to all those instances where possible, because we are faced with a situation of tremendous violation of the labour rights of a very large group of Greeks and Greeks. They have employees and employees in Galicia who hire and subcontract jobs for Telefónica, Movistar, since April 14 with mobilizations. They called for an indefinite strike to enforce the application agreements, limit chain subcontracting and combat job precariousness of workers and workers in the sector; a strike communicated to the Labour Council on April 7th – more than a month and a half of strike. A measure taken by the gravity of the situation, by the severe deterioration of working conditions, to denounce the abusive working conditions suffered by the workers and workers of the companies responsible for the facilities and the maintenance of telephone lines. We're talking about a strategic sector, a highly sensitive sector. Conditions that all led to the worsening of the new barrier, with cost cuts that are intended to apply multinational telephonics to their contracts. In the face of this precarious situation, workers demand basic questions, minimum questions: they demand compliance with the implementation agreements, which are the provincial metal conventions, especially in the field of remuneration and working days. They ask for restrictions on string subcontracting. This is a highly precarious sector, to a large extent due to its fragmentation, giving situations of up to 3 levels of subcontracting for a single contract with the main company. From Telephonic itself, competition among contracts is fostered, the incorporation of workers and workers dismissed, stopped by successive EREs who are then demanded to be discharged as false autonomouss. Now it's in another situation. Since the situation of false autonomouss was being denounced and were being won judgments by labor bonds, you are now demanding that commercial societies be formed and on many occasions limited societies formed by one person: Manolito Pérez, S.L. That's the situation that Telephonic and the contracts are leading to the workers and the workers, to set up business companies to provide services in a very deplorable condition. An atomization of the sector, a multinational that fosters small and small enterprises of small size so that they can exercise their working conditions of misery. This is the situation of companies of the second and third degree of subcontracting which have to pay their own costs for transport and maintenance. They demand the limitation to the first degree of subcontracting descending through their own agreement or through specific agreements with the main contracts. They demand the subrogation of the staff serving in telephonic contracts; that when Telephonic goes back to making a contract with another company, these workers are not systematically fired, which are not located in a situation of total precariousness and instability at work. They demand compliance with the sector's implementation agreements, which end with the infamous wage situation by points driven by Telephonica; an abusive production system which imposes contracts and a system which consists of point-adjusting each of the tasks to be dealt with and, if these points are not met, they are penalized, and, in order to accomplish them, they have to carry out lionine work days of 10, 12 and up to 14 hours daily, in many cases included on weekends. There are days when no overtime is paid, and even some workers are forced to produce the company because they don't achieve these goals. This excess of hours has a very negative impact on the health and safety of workers in these contracts and subcontracts, which in recent times are increasing the number of medical casualties, and the levels of stress are in situations, at levels, unbearable. The precarious situation of the sector as a whole is of such magnitude that part of the work that the contracts are doing and the subcontracts of this multinational are jeopardizing a good service to the outlaws of the sector. They are workers who charge a maximum of 1,100 euros in the first contract at the first level and then, in the second and third levels, they charge only 800 or 600 euros, those who have to discount, as I said earlier, the fuel and lunch; workers who contribute less to Social Security, which means worse pensions, worse unemployment benefits and who take permanent risks to try to cover targets, with adverse weather conditions, with pressures, with excessive fatigue, with stress days, etc. We are at a time when to see situations of exploitation, precariousness, slavery, we need not go to underdeveloped countries anymore, because these situations are already taking place here in Galicia. And because of that situation, it is why the Galician Nationalist Block comes back here, it brings here, this Parliament, this non-law proposal, where we demand that this Parliament take letters on the matter, that this Parliament ask the Galician Council to end this work situation, which imposes the subrogations, which ends with the chain subcontracts, that it do something. Months and a half of strike after, the Galician board, the Labour Council, did not meet with the strike committee, did not meet with the workers, did not have to do any sort of gesture to sit both sides in conflict and try to solve the problem. We believe that claims are fair and more than justified, because there is a breach of agreement and because productive criteria are imposed which are more suited to a banana republic than to a situation in a democratic state. Yesterday my companion Olaya Fernández Davila at the Congress of Deputies said that this situation was incompatible with saying that we live in a democratic state. I want to repeat here today in this Parliament of Galicia: that a parliament, in the face of a situation like this, of a terrible violation of labour rights, of a situation where we know there are thousands of people who are overexploited, who are risking their health and their lives in exchange for the abusive enrichment of a company – of a company that last year had more than 4 billion euros of benefit, of a company that receives public resources from the Board of Galicia, of a company that has been gifted and privatized by the governments of the People's Party – cannot look elsewhere and do not urge the Government of Greece to take letters in the matter...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u58	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u59	...to be on the side of workers and workers and demand that measures be taken to put an end to this situation. I ask the Members and Members of the People's Party here today to rectify, that for once they can think of those workers and workers, that tomorrow they can be any of you, their children, they can be their daughters or their neighbours, who are not free of this situation. If you allow this to go on, there are people who have been on strike for months and a half without one finger moving, they're being accomplices and consenters and, of course, history won't absolve them. I ask for the support of the House's groups for this initiative, which is nothing other than meeting the fair demands of a collective of workers and workers who can no longer endure, with working conditions that are condemning them to poverty, wages that do not allow them to survive and to a situation of indignity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u60	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u61	...that can't be allowed, I insist, in a state that we consider to be at least democratic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u63	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you again. On 22 April, in front of Parliament, there was a concentration of the workers of the subcontract of Telephonica from all over Galicia, who, as the BNG spokesperson said, have been on strike indefinitely since 14 April, protesting the precariousness of their working conditions. Despite the importance of this unemployment, which is having consequences on the telephony, Internet and television service offered by the company, despite the commitment and affirmation of the Labour Counsellor in this Chamber that the Council always acts in all labour conflicts to try to mediate and reach an agreement, Galician Union remains completely changing in this conflict and has not even begun or taken any initiative to promote mediation. In nearly a month and a half since the beginning of the unemployment, there have been thousands of incidents that have been left unattended, both failures and heights that they could not afford. The focus of the conflict has much to do with the perverse business model; this business model that I now told Mr. President; a business model that fosters precarious work, with poor wages and semi-slavery conditions; a business model that destroys jobs in large companies to outsource it through the way of subcontracting and that destroys contracts with good working conditions to create precarious contracts that reach 12 hours a day, six or seven days even a week. They are workers who, after working all day, cannot meet their basic needs. Almost all the staff around the 50 companies working for Telefónica joined this indefinite unemployment. They're being shot by the working conditions that companies are subject to, with the complicity of the authorities and the Greek administration. Telephonic began a year ago to cut into contracts with companies, and these in turn cut about their workers; that's why one of their claims is that collective agreements are being complied with. The conditions of work reached a point of deterioration both in wage and social issues and in the issue of labour security. It's working without security measures, even in high-level jobs, and that's a direct responsibility of the Galician Union, which has responsibility for working health. So you should take action before a worker dies in a labor accident, because we know that Galicia also has the record of serious and fatal work accidents throughout the state, evidently as a result of a Board that does not act to defend neither even the lives of the workers, nor say their wages. But also another of the points that are the debate and that are claimed is the so-called "barremos points", which are individual goals that are impossible to meet, but that if they don't meet them, they will have an impact on the wages of the workers that month or the next one, even knowing that in order to achieve those points, they would have to work all the workers eleven or twelve hours a day on the seven days of the week. So we're talking about unprecedented labour exploitation and passive and consensive attitude of an equally unprecedented government, except in dictatorships, where it is clear that employers always support themselves. To me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this reminds me more and more of methods that are nothing democratic, for not saying anything else. System pervert complete...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u64	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u65	...with compensation at the next points of the month. Therefore – and finished – one of the most important claims is to reduce subcontracting to one level. It's indecent that the Administration agrees, has contracts with companies, for a price I understand it will be to cover that service with the workers and workers it needs, and that company subcontracts it to profit and makes it a cheaper one, but this one in turn also subcontracts the other that makes it cheaper and it remains for the benefit. So that's a blatant theft of public money for business benefit. So I hope they have the decency to act and not to allow companies like Telefónica, which have a good millions of benefits, they end up stealing from the German workers and workers, as well as from all the Greeks and Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Galeg, Ms. Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u67	Thank you, President. So we have to debate again an initiative on the conditions of exploitation in which workers and workers of Movistar-Telefónica survive, of their contracts. Obviously, we are going to support this initiative, which we hope will be better fortunate than the previous ones that have been discussed in this House. In the past full, on May 6, the People's Party prevented a Left-Galga Alternative initiative to be approved by the People's Party from re-thinking or respecting minimum working conditions for the templates of those subcontracts. It was also the same two weeks ago in Commission 5a, when we were discussing telemarketing, also on strike, and, in this case, also referring to the company Atento. We were asking from AGE what I was planning to do to the board about the precariousness of these people who work in a contract that has already reduced their template by 60%, while the work, obviously, not only did it not diminish but it increased by 40%. And now it's allowed to fire 17 more workers, not because they don't have a job, not because they've lost the contract, which is not true, but because they've decided to move Tanger or Valencia. The company was already fined by the Labour Inspectorate and in the past year has already lost, before the National Audience, the ERE proposed to breach precisely trade union freedoms, with conditions of slavery that practically leave the template without rights, with a provision of 365 days a year at 24 hours. And the Junta said, apparently, that he has two records of serious infringement open. Before that, the Galician Board says it supports that it cannot do anything at all, but, in the meantime, it also supports contracts with Telephonic in the Administration and, in the meantime, it has to be, according to the Galician Board, workers and exploited workers who are going to denounce their situation, when we know that on many occasions this is practically unreal because they depend on those wages in order to be able to eat. It seems, therefore, that they are inhibited by their powers. It happens, as I said at the beginning, with the installation and maintenance contracts, that go precisely, as said here, the way of the two months of strike, with people who win, who charge, 800 euros working six days a week – with luck, if not seven – and twelve hours a day, and that, as the BNG spokesman said, they also have to pay the displacement, the vehicle, the fuel and the diet, the food from their pocket. Practically, in a slave regime, where they work little more than in the paper. And they work for a company, Telefónica – by the way, privatized in 1994 – that had in 2014 benefits of more than 4 billion euros; a company that, while workers were exploited and died and already died throughout the state in labor accidents, had benefits. Yesterday the last one died in Biscay and, in the meantime, this company has an increase of 12.6% in its income in the first quarter of 2015. That's employer terrorism. You can't, you shouldn't, the Galician Union remain unsatisfied and look elsewhere at this situation as much as you say she's not the company. They have powers of inspection, they have powers to enforce decent conditions of employment and labour law and they have responsibilities – even the party that supports the Government – about their legislation, particularly their counter-reform, which facilitates situations like this one we are living in. They know perfectly well what the contracts of false autonomy are, they know perfectly the hours and conditions in which these people work, and that we're reporting here, they know that there's been activities to cover the work of people on strike, who obviously violate the right to strike workers and workers. So we ask here, obviously, also the government-supporting party supports this BNG initiative and puts itself for the first time on the skin of those who work, playing life for three euros an hour in many cases. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. A more job initiative, or better unemployment. You, the People's Party, as much as you try to twist the figures every day, that evidence is stubborn, and this very Sunday they learned something and took a great deal of evidence: that, contrary to what Mr. Feijóo said, that this stopping him in 45 days, today, no doubt, there are many more people in unemployment than when he was elected president and that, despite what Mr. Tellado and Mrs. Counsellor say, who live in a parallel world, here every day doubles the number of stops that exist in Spain since Mr. Rajoy's arrival, despite the inheritance of the wicked Government of Zapatero. And you can keep grading and comparing for months, a month with the previous month, by rubies, by browns, by tall, by fats, by basses... what all citizens today have clear is that in Galicia we are worse and we have more unemployment since Feijóo is president, almost seven years ago. It is true that the 45-day whole seemed to us to be overstated, but in seven years something could be noticed. And also Mr. Rajoy, with that equation of "doing things as God commands"... that of creating jobs seems to require something more of dedication than just doing things as God commanded. And the first of all, which yesterday was also in the debate, was investing in employment policies. We're still waiting for someone to explain to us the most difficult arithmetic operation that is: obligations recognized because of the vigorous credits, which gives us 68% investment from the budget. If there's another formula to calculate it, someone will tell it. Employment is undoubtedly the main problem in this country for everyone, for all statistics, for all parameters, for all international European bodies, except for Mr Rajoy, who has left the mark. It's true that when he was, he didn't do much. So, now that it's no longer a problem for him, the hopes we have are quite weak. This particular initiative speaks of Telefónica's installation contracts, and is a clear example of what is happening in this country. Our solidarity, of course, with those workers. This is an example – although there could be more – of your model, of when they came to destroy forced marches, in the first two years, employment – and there are the indisputable data for everyone, I repeat, except for Mr. Tellado and Mrs. Counsellor – and of the employment model that you are now recovering from the destroyed, because they are creating jobs about the destroyed, about what they first destroyed, in working conditions like those that were and how they are generating now. This particular case comes as a result of the application of the last ERE, which has reduced the staff board by 30%. For lack of work? No, no, no, no. For the company's economic needs? No, because through Law 9/2014 and the labour reform approved by the People's Party for subcontracting was set up in generalized recruitment mode, extended in this sector, as well as in many others. And immediately what definitely triggers the conflict was the drastic reduction by Telefónica-Movistar of the price of the services they provide to companies hired by multinationals. The work reform adopted in 2012 flies through the air the collective bargaining system. When we were talking about it, we said that it wasn't... because it was what we were talking about, what we were going to come to. What brought you was the immediate stabilization of services and, therefore, the perfect instrument for achieving the main political and economic objective of this government: political, the reduction of rights, and economic, the drastic reduction of wages. And that's why that data from Montoro, the Montoro itself and the Tax Agency gives us another dose of evidence: 34% of the employees charge the equivalent of the minimum wage, half around 950 euros, and the purchasing power of the employees is at the same level as in the 1990s. And the question is, what part of this didn't you want to happen? It's happening what you wanted me to do with this job reform, which only takes a year – that's true – but which, in the meantime, is leaving a lot of people on the way. We have reduced the labour costs to half, because it has been dealt with so far; you have not invented anything, you have not come here with any capital formula, they have only made it possible through this reform: that, with the same job, someone can legally charge half, both the person from Telephonic – which is the case – and others – we could transfer it – who previously charged 1,000 euros and who continue to do the same work, but they charge 600 for a company created ad hoc by Telephonic itself to subcontract the service. All this is reality and evidence, and everything else is milongas; milongas with which, not for you, but for this country, after Sunday something should come out clean, and should change, because indeed, Mr. Tellado – and is not Mr. Tellado – see how not so many ships existed in Ferrol? –Oh!, sorry it is now, it has become incorporated – See how not so many fleets but, in any case, some boat? You see how this of 4.0, 6.0 and 8.0 people haven't just believed it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u71	Now we're with the drones; that is, we've destroyed 80 jobs next to it, milk food, we've agreed with Easter to pay the workers nothing and now we're selling 50 of the drones. I mean, do you see how all those milongs that tell us here, even if they go out 20 times for TVG at first time, people don't even feel it, they don't see it, and they don't exist? I think they have to correct once and for all their politics and, above all, the reform of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u72	Thank you, Mr. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u73	Good morning. Look, Mr. Garcia, from 2007 until the end of 2011, the wages per capita dropped at 11%, but that's not the worst data, the worst thing is that this drop was not fair, and the responsible for most of that drop is the destruction of more than 3 million jobs, Mr. Garcia – I'm very sorry you don't want to hear this – And the other part of the drop he was referring to is the loss of purchasing power from the lowest incomes. With you a minority has won more and most have won a lot less. The agreement at the national level reached on 5 May between the main trade unions, between workers' committees and UXT, and the subcontracts of Telefónica, was called into question the seven-day strike which was to begin on 6 May. The agreement raised the commitment to develop a regulation of the sector's subcontracting chain, which was the main demand of workers' representatives. However, despite the signing of the majority unions, others such as the IGC, the General Workers' Confederation or the Workers' Union Alternative, they have not acceded to this agreement, and at this point it seems that only 5% of the workers are still on strike after the agreement reached three weeks ago between Workers' Commissions, UXT and telephone companies. The result of this signature was a joint follow-up commission, which agreed last week to eliminate clear abuse, the economic penalties that could be applied to workers. Mr Fajardo, this committee will continue to work on matters such as subcontracting, weekends and days of leisure, or risk prevention and productivity. We have also clearly rejected the acts of sabotage produced in the last few weeks in Galicia, which have affected nearly 19,000 users: families, businesses and small businesses. We understand that cutting cables is punishing citizenship, and it's not the solution to labour conflicts. Citizens are twice as badly injured: on the one hand, they don't have the service hired, and on the other hand, they're still paying for that service... I don't know why you're here for the cable cut, Mr. Sánchez; I don't know why, when we talk about sabotage, you're apologizing. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I don't understand. What we're asking is that these activities cease, and we also ask the company – let me talk, Mr. Sánchez – to re-enter users the amount of receipts paid even though they cannot use this contracted service. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] We therefore demand that all companies operating in our territory comply with the current legislation, as well as with the conditions agreed on in collective agreements, and the Council of Galicia shall ensure compliance by the so-called inspection activity, by sanctioning those who do not. Health and risk prevention at work is an absolute priority. In this matter alone, more than 4,600 inspection service orders are planned for 2015, with the inescapable objective of ensuring the maximum safety and health of the workers in Greece and Greece. The Labour Council is constantly studying the working conditions of all sectors through inspection and correcting situations in which irregularities occur. I remind you that one of the essential axes of the Galician Action Plan for 2015 focuses on Social Security, to prevent the undue absence of highs, or what is mentioned in the text of the non-law proposal as false autonomy. More than 7,500 are the service orders for this chapter in 2015, an increase of 16% compared to 2014. Regarding the unemployment data you mention, I would like to remind you that in April unemployment was reduced to 25,000 people – it is already a year and a half consecutive declines – and there is also a decrease of 9.5% per annum, which is the highest drop in April of the entire historical series. And I want to remind you, in our comparison with the rest of the state, that here in Galicia it has fallen by 2.93 % and in the rest of the country by 2.67 %, and in the inter-annual whereas in the rest of the state it has fallen by 7.5 % here in Galicia it has fallen by 9.40 %. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u74	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u75	Mr. Trenor, and the workers of the telephone subcontracts what? What are you moving them, Mr. Trenor? Do you have anything to tell them? Do you think people who have these working conditions of misery, who don't arrive at the end of the month, would be on strike for a month and a half if any of the problems they have reported were solved? Do you think so? Look, the other day I found myself on the train with a worker's wife. You know what he told me? He said: I can't believe that the People's Party uses the votes we give to support companies that do this with us. He said, "Look, I had to buy my husband a tupper for food, because most of the days he came home without eating, because the salary doesn't give him, because we don't have to feed his children. That's the situation we're reporting here today, the situation of specific people, with names and names. And in front of that, you're going to press the button, a button with which you don't say no to the Galego Nationalist Block initiative, it's a button with which, when you vote that no, they're going to be voting on not that the Councillor does something; they're going to be voting on not that the Councillor and the Councillor feels the workers and the company and tells them that with the public money they're not going to allow him to continue with those conditions. They're going to vote that they won't do it for once. And they're going to vote that if the workers and the workers suffer, they're going to vote that they're following these conditions of slavery. It’s you [...], because those who harbor positions of crime of the employer are [...], understand?, and they don’t have the courage to go there where the workers are saying what they’re saying here: that you’ve been unemployed, that we’re the community that don’t know what... we’re talking about specific people. [[By order of the President, García Leira, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]] They have no forgiveness. You have no forgiveness that, in the face of situations like these, you keep looking to the other side, you keep hiding behind you if you don't know what things and you keep allowing the company to have millions of profits, while the workers don't have to arrive at the end of the month. The only mission you have here is to allow companies to increase profits, even if it is the cost of poverty and suffering for workers and workers. Of course, I knew of his insensibility, I knew at the service of who they were, but I didn't know they could reach such extremes as these, of allowing workers and workers to be in this situation, of denigrating them to this level without moving straw, without having the slightest dignity of yet to say: we're going to vote for the Council to feel the parts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u76	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u77	They're not even willing to do that. They don't have any forgiveness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u79	I'm not taking it off, I'm not taking it off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u80	You don't know what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u81	But I will not withdraw it, Mr President, because we are faced with delicious situations, where there is a government that is not acting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u82	Don't go on, call the order. You have a call to order. [[Murmurs.]] No, there's no problem, it's called to order, and of course that expression is removed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u83	We're still on the agenda. The following non-law proposals are collected: non-law 4.5 and 4.6 proposals from G.P. of Alternative Left and G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the management to be carried out in Galicia in relation to the schedules, frequencies and prices of the new railway services of the Atlantic axis between Vigo and La Coruña, as well as the momentum of the creation of a nearby Greek network. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the supply, operation and charges of railway services in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u84	To make this non-law proposal, first of all, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u85	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning because, as we are cut off today and we have no right to ask the President, let us say that we are now starting the day. Mr President, certainly, as we said in the election campaign, the noblest of politics is to speak in the Chambers and work in parliaments and in public administrations to defend people's lives and deal with the problems that afflict thousands of people in our country. This initiative that brings the Left-Galga Alternative, which also shares and defends the Galician Nationalist Block, rightly talks about this, about people's real problems. It speaks, without a doubt, of a very serious structural problem in our country that has to do with the railway infrastructure; a problem of great importance that really makes us have a country that is particularly impoverished, a country that is particularly little developed, a country that is not able to develop industrial aspects that would be relevant to get out of the poverty in which we are, but above all, a country that has less social cohesion every day because of lack of that necessary tool, which is railway cohesion between all the provinces and all the districts of Galicia. We must be the only country in the world in which, without any doubt, between Ferrol and Ourense, it is materially impossible – Ferrol or even, if you want, The Coruña – to travel through a railway infrastructure; that is, a country that is not normal. But today it's not so much about the infrastructure itself, but about the consequences of misplanning the infrastructures of the People's Party, and even about the desire for privatization that the People's Party has nothing more and nothing less with the Spanish State's railway system. We don't even have to talk about those misfortunes that have to do with the never-recognizable English Research Commission, not even with the security failures in the Greek railway systems. We don't even want to stop at this. What we want to talk about is the severity of the consequences that thousands of passengers suffer, users of the so-called "Atlantic Axis"; users especially from among villages, for example, The Crown and Santiago, but also between The Crown and Vigo, who are daily users and users of the same and who are suffering – I insist – the consequences of the poor planning of the People's Party. In this initiative, what we are talking about is, firstly, whether we are going to or are facing the real propaganda of the People's Party regarding the Atlantic axis, which is absolutely broken. We're talking about an opening of a course, indeed, the bomb and plate, but – as you know – failed, because it doesn't start Ferrol with the promised, which was Porto, and that we're also going with non-historical delays, but the People's Party is moving away from their forecasts and again is failing the truth of the tasks and promises thrown into electoral campaign. But we're also talking about dismantling the conventional rail network, and we're also talking, as I said, about absolute improvisation in the frequencies that have been planned by the People's Party. And we talk in addition to these lines strongly followed by users and users in this country because here we say that the People's Party argument is that the lines are not profitable and that's why they can't use or develop the railway system. In this particular case, as the data from the Railway System Observatory actually say, we are faced with data from 400,000 users in this line The Sanctuary-Coruña to over 900,000. So let us say that this usual argumentary of the People's Party in this case does not occur. But we're talking about improvisation in the frequencies, that is, you don't understand – and I have here the schedules that the People's Party plans – that the time of arrival of a train, for example, the Compostela to be able to attend a class that starts at 9 a.m. because it comes at exactly 9 a.m., you don't understand the irrationality of these times, or vice versa, i.e. any user who is from Compostela and is going to work in the town of Coruña and you have to come in at 8 p.m. because, in fact, you don't understand the hours that are planned by the People's Party. Well, as you know, there is a platform that is defending and demanding – I suppose this initiative is of common sense – is that we are not asking for anything special, because what they are asking for is indeed rationality in the hourly frequencies of railway zones between those lines, which – I insist – are being used and which are necessary for thousands of workers in this country and for thousands of students in this country too. We're talking about normal people. But we're also talking about the nonsense that the Popular Party has made us, we're compatibility diesel trains with trains that are electric, we're doing things as tremendous as the diesel trains – as you know – arrive at Guixar station in Vigo, and the electric trains arrive at the new station. And we're talking about having that duality because we don't have launch trains or launch communication systems between the two stations. But we're talking about a country where we have an airport, like the Compostela airport, where there's no intermodality. We're talking about a country in which it's impossible, because one arrives at Compostela Airport and there's no rail connection to any town in this country. By the way, a country that is the only one in the world that has three airports, two outer ports and, at last, adds up and follows, that do, of course, that we do not cohesive our country. But the most relevant and the most serious – and this is also the consequence of their cuts – is that in spite of these dualities we are keeping all this work with the same template as the service previously provided – I suppose they know it – in conditions also infamous, under infamous conditions. And, by the way, if they haven't talked to the workers and the service workers, they'll get hands on it, they'll probably tell them what conditions they're working on. But besides, in a real nonsense – this is the social policy of the People's Party, and the social policy of the People's Party is what you like, as well as the textbooks – is that the bonus for those people who pass between The Coruña and Santiago costs 175 euros. But it costs 175 euros for a stop or a stop, for a student or for a person who earns 3 million euros a month. This is the reality of this country. That's what you say: no, depending on income; no, there's no income here. Let's give an example: a worker or a worker who is lucky to have a salary of EUR 1,200 per month dedicates nothing more to him and nothing less than transporting a sixth of his salary. This is the real life of this country, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Don't I know if they're aware that transport is vital for a people, for a country? By the way, I don't even know if you're aware that in order to combine this irrationality of hourly frequencies, for example, obviously the Avant despite promises is excluded from those services. And, of course, to adjust the hourly frequencies one would, of course, have to get out of the bond and pay exactly 15.60 euros. Indeed, impossible for most workers in this country, impossible for those and students in this country as well. But also those issues that are absolutely absurd, such as they promised us the elements to incorporate – and they also sold the candy and dish – everything that has to do with the use of bicycles. And I suppose they know that, of course, if a user or user wants to take the bike on the train, he actually has to pay a price, and besides, indeed, they only allow three bikes in the service. Therefore, we are faced with a real nonsense, in what I suppose – Mrs. Pontón, of course we are going to share and vote favourably for her initiative – that the People's Party will vote favourably, firstly, so they say, by social sensitivity, because the rates are unbearable; I suppose that because it is an obvious necessity, it is a platform that is demanding an absolutely necessary service; it is necessary to change the frequencies and routines or to bring them closer to the hours of the working days or the days of the students of this country. I don't want to talk about a country where the surrounding railway system – and I'm from Ferrol – doesn't exist, i.e., a historical demand. It is entrepreneurship that is what they are doing or just undoing in this country. It is entrepreneurship – as it is being requested – that between the districts of Arousa, Pontevedra and Vigo there is no rail network of proximity. It is entrepreneurship that in an autonomous community like Madrid anyone can move with absolute agility between any point in that autonomous community in fast conditions – let's say. And in this country, in Galicia, I live in Ferrol, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's impossible to travel by train. But it's impossible even to move us. I'm not telling Lugo anymore. I'm just saying, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u87	...and I'm done now – if we want to go to Madrid by train, we don't even have that right now. So, as I suppose we're talking about things of life, and as I suppose they're going to show that social sensibility that the People's Party has, and as I suppose this initiative no longer questions the structural failure of the infrastructure in which the People's Party turned the railway, I suppose they're going to vote favourably. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Since the Galego Nationalist Block we've been defending the need to modernise the railway in our country for many years, because we believe that the Greeks and the Greeks must not be second-class citizens and we have the right to have decent railway services and at the height of the 21st century. However, when we really analyze what has been done, as has changed the reality of the railway in our country in recent years, we find that although at some points very important public resources have been invested, if the routes have improved, if some roads have doubled, this cannot be obvious that there is still a structural problem in the railway configuration in our country, and that even we are dealing with those that have made a greater investment from our point of view are not making the investments made socially profitable. And there's a deafness of the State Government to accept what is the reality of our country and a clear discrimination for Greeks and Greeks about the kind of railway services we count on today. All of this has problems that arise from the roots of centralism, because the modernization that has been carried out in Galicia is not only a modernization that comes very late in relation to that which has been invested in other parts of the state, but also is done from the point of view that it is considered that the railway services in Galicia are intended to arrive soon in Madrid and not to respond to the demands of the Greek population on communication. And if not, we see how multiple stations and pedestrians have been closed in recent years and how every time important towns in our country are left uncommunicated without any kind of service. And this is the best example of how this centralism which is being practiced in a rational way by the People's Party doesn't serve to solve the problems that our country has. We have therefore a partial and incomplete modernization and a modernization that has been delayed with respect to the state and that there are still important structural problems. How is Galicia having such important economic relations with northern Portugal not advanced in connection with port, which is fundamental from the point of view of our economic interests and as a country? For this is an example of how not only the State treats us, but also of how Mr. Feijó's subordination has very serious consequences for our country. We also see how high-speed lines, which were not after high-speed lines, because they were made here with lower security conditions, right? We must remember that this has had dramatic consequences, such as that opening of that piece of the Atlantic axis stretch, which not of the entire Atlantic axis, is also done with less security measures and major deficiencies. Eleven points where machines were told that they were dangerous points in a line where thousands of euros were invested – to us, of course, this seems to us to be something inconceivable. And we see how if you're actually selling us an AVE that's not AVE, because in Galicia there's no AVE, there's been an improvement in rail services, but there's no AVE right now. But we also see how all this configuration leaves important towns and cities isolated. Ferrol, I invite your lords to visit Ferrol on railway, and what will you see? The same line as a hundred years ago, the same line as when it was inaugurated. A turtle's speed, 63 kilometers between Ferrol and La Coruña, which averages between an hour and a hour and an hour and a half, according to information published by Renfe. There are six train offers to go from Ferrol to Coruña. What a coincidence! Two o'clock at 7.15, then 7.15, 9.10, and since 9.10 there's no train back until 2.10, then there's a train at 5.20 and another at 7.15. With this kind of offer, how do you expect anyone to use the railroad? There's clearly a deliberate policy for the railroad to die in these spaces. We also see how with all these propaganda announcements that were made before the elections, an opening of the AVE The Vigo-Coruña is in theory, but in reality it's not AVE, nor is there a provision of services and frequencies that responds to the demands in this sense of the Greek population. And, particularly, if we look at the population flows that are, for example, between Santiago-Pontevedra or Santiago-Vigo, we see how there is a very important part that are workers and workers and students. And here these people, the railway users, what they're showing is improvisation, the lack of prediction of which are the real needs of the railway users and users, and what they're telling us is that we need to demand that the railway has more frequency, especially in the rush hours, and that there are schedules that allow people studying and that the people who work can use this means of transport. Because if we spend more than two billion or three billion euros on modernising a railway line, the logic is that in social terms we want that to be as useful as possible, because that's what's going to make the investment that's been made in this field profitable. Look, a student who lives in Pontevedra and who studies in Santiago, are you now able to come with modern services and rational hours to Santiago de Compostela studying? Well, maybe not, because when we're going to see what the usual schedule is for most, for example, colleges and colleges, classes are usually 9 to 2. All right, so a person who studies, who lives in Pontevedra and wants to come and study Santiago de Compostela at that time from 9 to 2 has to catch a train at 7.30 a.m. to get to Santiago an hour later. To get back, I would have to catch a train at 2.30, which is also a regional train and which, therefore, will also take you an hour, an hour, ladies, to reach Pontevedra. In case you have, for example, an afternoon from 4 to 8, to leave the train that can catch a person who leaves at 9 p.m. of the class is at 10 p.m., which will arrive at 11 p.m. in Pontevedra. Of course, this is not a rational bet. And we today are saying that this Parliament has to tell the Government of the State that we want to improve the services and frequencies, that we have to do real studies and that we have to bet that in the hours it really is a higher frequency of half an hour, because that would make it easier for everyone to use the train normally. And that services are reinforced, because we know that on many occasions, in high hours, there are people who stay in the Andean because they don't have enough room. This is what's happening in our country. Let's not talk about another type of hate, because, for example, if we want to go from Santiago de Compostela to the ship of Valdeorras, because we can catch a train at 10 a.m. and we'll arrive at 1 noon. Of course, this is one of the modernities. Or something much more trivial, because we could want to go from Santiago to Padrón, which is 13 minutes, and we only have three trains all day. Who can use and depend on the railway with this kind of frequency with the rhythms of life that exist today? Well, we're defending this initiative are four very basic points. Four points in which we have already encountered some question that we have continued to defend, but which we believe at this time, because we have reached some sort of minimum agreement, we have not asked it, as it is the creation of a German railway company itself. It's a BNG demand. But as we want a minimum agreement today, which will serve to improve what we have in this Parliament, what we demand is that we as a Parliament tell you that the state has to increase the supply of services on medium-distance trains that travel around our country and that in the rush hours we have to put trains every half hour, because there is also sufficient demand for the service and, therefore, it would be reprehensible. Secondly, we need to set up nearby trains, because here we were sold the creation of a service that was going to start the neighborhoods and there is no neighborhoods in our country. So what's that neighborhood management worth if it doesn't perform any functions. Well, man, in hours of supreme austerity at least, and we're not spending money there in vain. Thirdly, we also believe that tariff policy must be reformulated. Because it's very good that the minister tells us she's not going to take the train anymore, of course, because in the last four years the average price of the railway ticket in Galicia has risen by 40%. So if in the last four years it's risen by 40%, actually, it's already been an important climb. And the fertilizer systems that have rigidity problems, they have operating problems at the stations, they have problems that there really is a very important deficiency. We also believe that parking needs to be redefined and that we have to ensure that in the new services we have a department that allows bicycles to be used and that the bill is eliminated by taking them on the train. In short, we are here proposing and collecting demands from the railway collective in our country on a minimum initiative, which, if the People's Party does not support it, is that it will prove not only to be against the common sense, but in the least response to the needs of the railway in our country today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u91	Well, the strange thing about these two non-legal proposals is that we have to bring them here and we have to debate this. It seems to me to be surreal that we are claiming to the Government to be concerned that rail transport services respond to the needs of the people of Greece. It seems to me, really, amazing. But the reality is that we have a train that is not high-speed, but that goes faster than the other one, half-range, and another, slow train, which travels across the country at a speed that is impossible to use. A network that has cost a lot of money to everyone and to all that we can't use and that doesn't serve because it has tremendous deficiencies. To begin with security deficiencies that I have already reported in this House, serious, serious, very serious deficiencies. And besides, in Galicia, already only for ethics, out of respect, because the Minister of Development himself promised it, the ERTMS could not fail in Galicia; it is a lack of respect that does not put in Galicia the ERTMS and again put into operation a new service without that measure of security. But it also has a lot of shortcomings where the quality of the service is provided to users. Renfe speaks safely of eleven singular points – as the BNG spokesman said – because he recognizes that the ballasts are wrong, that the speed signals are wrong, that many of them do not see and that he has to change them. I mean, Renfe admits he made a chapuza, probably in a hurry to inaugurate it before the elections and eventually it turned out that we have a train that's not worth moving. But we also have deficiencies in the service of stations. He was talking about Pattern. The standard one is surreal: two stations. The high-speed train station, the Alvia, the fast train station, is six kilometers away – I have it pointed out here – from Pattern, far beyond the other, and above from Pattern to here, after I have to leave the car. I mean, drive to the new station, six kilometers away, catch the train, pay nearly 4 euros by train from the Standard to here, of course, I don't think it attracts many people. But –as the BNG spokesman said – this AVE is not an AVE. So, only at some points it allows the speed of 250 kilometers per hour, the rest of the way comes much slower. In just 160 kilometers, at virtually no point can be reached at the speed of 250 kilometers. But also one of the main complaints there is, the timetable complaint, which is not adapted to the needs of potentially users, and the few frequencies are the most repeated complaints. For example, I use the Vigo-Compostela train. Between Vigo and Compostela, apart from the fact that it's normal for the train to arrive out of time and be late, it's already late from Vigo normally, with which it gets late to Pontevedra – the other day it had to make three stops between Vigo and Pontevedra, you don't know very well for that; then another stop after Standard, in the middle of the road, you don't know very well for that – but, besides, you have frequencies that don't apply to anyone. The first train leaves at 7:00 a.m. and the next train leaves at 9:00 a.m., in the middle there is no train. But then to go back, or you'll be back at 6:30 or you'll be staying till night. When, in addition to the complication we have in Vigo, if I come at one high speed and I go back to the other, if I leave the car at one station, then I have to go to the other station, because we have two stations in Vigo depending on the train. I don't even want to tell you if I'm going to the Porriño, for example, because then I have to travel to the bus station. I mean, there's organized public transport for nobody to use public transport. You can't put more stones on the way to the use of public transport. So I'm sorry we have to be here today talking about this. I'm deeply sorry because these are those things that just natural logic should lead to solving. Yesterday, I got my attention, there was a man at the station who says he makes twenty trips a month at least, but the bonds, of course, if one week missing one day I already get more expensive the train, because the bonuses or spending them on the week or you're no longer worth anything, you end up losing money. But also while I was there, they were doing some surveys, they came to me to do a survey, and I said, well, it's time to tell him the frequencies, schedules, connections... No, they asked where you're from, where you go, where you work, in public or in private. And I said, "What's that worth to Renfe?" The normal thing would be if that train gave you an answer to get to your job and to get back from your job, or to get to your university or school and come back later. That's not what they're asking. So Renfe's advertising. It is a policy, of course, of null collective transport by the Government of the United States, which should have long claimed to the State the improvement of the Greek railway service, especially because it only brings benefits, economic and economic benefits, territorial balance and improved communication possibilities. I therefore hope that they will vote in favour of both initiatives. I'll vote for both because I'm the logical one. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The Left Galician Alternative and the Galego Nationalist Block bring us to this full range of proposals not of similar law and at the same time complementary. We believe that its accumulation in the debate in this plenary falls short to focus the debate on railway services, as a whole and as far as the Atlantic axis is concerned, on the necessary momentum of trains of medium distance, also in proximity, and on the repeated demand for the creation of a nearby Greek network, which we have often debated and that the opposition groups in this House have also voted favourably on a repeated basis. We believe that the long, medium and short distance are absolutely complementary and necessary in rail transport. The recent and hasty, due to the municipal elections of May, launched by the so-called "Atlantic Axis between Vigo and La Coruña" are presenting obvious deficiencies and a weakness in the services that it is necessary to solve to offer a higher quality service to users and users. The spokespersons and spokespersons who spoke earlier have already kicked off quite a lot of those deficiencies and weaknesses that have been shown in the operation of that line. We therefore recognize the arguments and also the proposals already reported by the spokesperson of the Alternative Gaga de Left and also by the spokesperson of the Nationalist Block of Galicia in the interventions that preceded me in the use of the word. And, essentially, they refer to the need for a change in schedules, also to the need for an increase in frequencies and also to the need to apply a clear price policy that is able to reward the most common use of rail transport. But we also noted from the Socialist Group that there were others in the high-speed Atlantic line of those we want to make an express statement in this debate. Thus, in the recent debut user train station in Vigo, which manages the traffic of fast trains, there is evidence of a shortage of staff for the attention of the public, since there are only two people on each turn, tomorrow and afternoon, for the sale of tickets, for the sale of early squares, to meet the incidences, for information. All this ends up causing long queues and sometimes passengers and passengers even get on the train without a ticket at the risk of being unable to board and therefore make that trip they had already scheduled. Nor does there exist in the station any of the minimum services that must count a station of these features, for example parking, for example, the press, for example, coffee shop, etc. Finally, it seems that the station is absolutely empty of content and simply performs the function of a plumber. On the other hand, trains in service are not adapted for people with mobility difficulties, as they are the ones who make the slowest route between Guixar and La Coruña station. With these contributions, in addition to those made by the proponents of non-legislative proposals, the Socialist Group was tempted, we were tempted to present an addition amendment, but we discarded it because we coincided with the ultimate purpose of the initiative itself. This purpose is absolutely clear and I repeat it: in the days following the post in service of the Atlantic axis there has been evidence of deficiencies and inadequacies in the service, which require a complete readjustment that affects fundamental issues to gain in quality and attractive for use, namely – and we repeat it again – the facilities of the Urzáiz station, in the public care staff, in the adaptation of trains to people with mobility difficulties, in changing schedules, increasing frequencies, in price policy and associated service rates, such as parking, as can be bicycle transport, etc. That is, a number of deficiencies found shortly after their service, which require a new adaptation that affects those services, but which may also affect in a deep study of others. In any case, what this is about is that the Atlantic axis wins in attractiveness and is a real and effective service for people themselves. But also if the long-distance service is fundamental and it is transcendental for mobility in Galicia with quality parameters, no less important it is for Galicia's vertebration of medium-distance train services and proximity train services. These services adapted to frequencies, schedules and tariffs to the needs of users result, they would result if they were effective modes of mobility essential to our towns and to our people. And there we agree with the statement and the proposal for approval by Mrs Pontón - I say - both in the statement and in the motions for resolutions. These medium- and short-distance services are in a really complicated situation because the policies of the People's Party governments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u94	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u95	...walk towards their dismantling by applying schedules, frequencies and rates contrary to the actual needs of the population. We believe that the Government applies a policy of disuse in the medium- and near-range railway services to justify their dismantling. The initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block calls for the opposite: an impulse to these forms of mobility. And we are absolutely in agreement, so we are going to vote in favour of both the non-law proposition of Alternative Left Gaulga as well as the Nationalist Block Galego. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u96	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the People's Parliamentary Group we have listened very carefully to the speech of the spokeswoman of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. She said she's been defending the railway in Galicia for many years; it's questionable, we're not going to value it. But what really draws our attention is what you said in your explanatory statement that the Nationalist Block in Wales has been exerting strong pressure for Galicia not to stand aside from the state's railway modernization. And, Mrs. Pontón, this kind of statement by this parliamentary group – let me say it with utmost cordiality – we consider it to be a genuine coat of hair. Because I don't know if you remember that when Mr. Zapatero and you were supporting Mr. Zapatero's government, the only thing they did in Madrid was to keep a plea to Minister Magdalena Álvarez; if not, ask Mr. Jorquera. Mrs. Pontón, you are far from defending the railway interests of our country, you have shut down and supported with the Socialist Party the closure and abandonment of stations in our country; if not, ask Mr. Jorquera. Thanks to his silence and his support they closed down at the Atlantic axis sixteen of thirty-two stations, including the Porta station, Mrs. Pontón, including the Porta station. The only parliamentary group here that presented a defense that this station had not been closed was this parliamentary group, and you voted against this initiative along with the Socialist Party. So don't come and say that you've made a strong pressure. Thanks to the fact that you've shut up and supported the Socialist Party, roads have been dismantled in the Atlantic between Pattern and Vilagarcia. It is more: they sold us as a railway success that implanted the green roads, especially between Vilagarcia and Padrón. That was his railway policy, Mrs. Pontón; that was his railway policy and that of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, you have done well to devote for eight years of the two former Socialist Ministers of Development zero euros to neighboring services, condemning our country to be the only autonomous community on the coast without neighboring services. And I don't know if you now know that there is a head of neighborhoods and that there is already a study on the feasibility of the implantation of the neighborhoods; which you have never done, despite the strong pressure that you argue in the explanatory statement. Look, Mrs. Pontón, you have done well for eight years of the Socialist Government, which hypothesizes the railway accesses of the outer ports of Ferrol and the Coruña and the railway connection of Bouzas to the port of Vigo. And thanks to the occurrences of former Minister Blanco, which you too have given for good, we almost put at risk the operation of the ports of Marín and Vilagarcia, when you announced that you wanted to change the AVE line of the Atlantic axis in international width. And, of course, he realized that the goods don't work internationally. And you shut up and supported those kinds of policies and initiatives. But, of course, since the People's Party ruled, you've changed your speech again. He came to the English disaster, tried again and again to extract political revenues and manipulate the victims. Not happy with this, you're facing a huge irresponsibility of saying that the Atlantic axis services are not safe, they're not safe. Do you know what they're saying? Are you a serious parliamentary group? How can it be said that the ASFA services implanted in the Atlantic are not safe when they are the same as those that are from Madrid to Seville or Paris to Lyon? How can you say that ERTMS is the only secure system in Europe and that the digital ASFA system is not safe? But why do you generate alarmism in an irresponsible and foolish way, gentlemen? The advice we give them humbly from this parliamentary group is to give them technical advice. In other European countries, the ERTMS system does not exist. In Germany they have their own security ballast systems, in France they have the ASFA 200 system. The ERTMS system, ladies and gentlemen - to see if we are clear - is to homogenize security systems in the trans-European transport network. So don't generate alarmism or false alarms. Security systems throughout the Spanish railway network have been improved through new beacons and the implementation of the signaling of the significant speed transition, and more than eighty locomotives currently have a satellite driving aid system. But, of course, as in that wear strategy, now what you're attacking is that services are not the right ones, schedules are not the right ones. Well, we would like, Mr President, to note in the record that it is false that since the high-speed line between La Coruña and Vigo had been removed from railway services in Galicia. It's fake. Moreover, more stops were maintained and the squares increased by 40%. And in addition, they remained and will continue to keep existing tariffs. And you know why, gentlemen? Because a Government of the People's Party at the end of 2012 declared the railway services in Galicia of the Atlantic axis as a public service obligation. What does that mean? They're services subsidized by the Ministry of Development. And in addition to services subsidized by the Ministry of Development, they have discounts: from 40% for children, from 20% to 50% for large families, from 20% to 30% for young people and from 20% to 50% for older people. You say services and frequencies aren't enough. Well, if they're not enough, why have users increased by 20% since April 18? Why has the line between The Coruña and Santiago increased the railway services in Galicia since its entry into service? Why has the number of long-distance users increased in Galicia since it entered the Santiago-Ourense service? It's because the Greeks know they're now traveling between La Coruña and Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u98	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u99	It takes an hour and twenty minutes, and Santiago Vigo fifty minutes. So, ladies and gentlemen, the evidence is that the implementation of the Atlantic axis is a success, the number of users ratifys it, and the schedules, gentlemen, if you don't know it, it's not an immutable question for Renfe, it's issues that are changing according to the demand of users and users in our country. And what is clear, as Mrs. Pontón said, is that the high-speed works began a People's Party government in 2000, that the works of the Atlantic axis put them into service a People's Party government in 2015...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u101	...and have no doubt that in 2018 he will also put them on duty by another Government of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u102	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Author group of the proposal, Mrs. Díaz. From the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u103	Mr. Gómez, you did very well the opposition to the Galician Nationalist Block, which as everyone knows is ruling in this country. All right, the truth is, how distracting maneuvers are perfect. What would be interesting is that as there are thousands of users and users affected by these services, tariffs and frequencies, you had a little height, with respect to those people who are demanding of you and, at least, meeting your needs. I'm saying that because you're ruling this country. It would be interesting – I insist – that they meet social demands; which you did not actually do. Look, I'm not from the Galego Nationalist Block, but I'm going to tell you one thing: if there's a parliamentary group and a political group that defended the train, I, who's not a member of the Galician Nationalist Block, I'm telling you that it was the Galician Nationalist Block, against the People's Party. Yes, Mr. Gómez, it is. [[Mr. Gómez Alonso utters words that are not perceived.]] Look, in politics you have to be fair in it and you have to recognize what is done in it, and as long as you continue to oppose the Galician Nationalist Block is the fruit of your defeat. And look, Mr. Gómez, what's really terrible is that I suppose, after finishing up as it's over, saying that rates and frequencies can be changed, they're not immutable, I suppose you're going to vote favourably then the two matching initiatives of the Block and the Alternative Left Galega, I suppose because it's this People's Party that defends the workers and the workers and the students of this country. But, look, they opened that stretch of the Atlantic axis with absolute improvisation because there were elections, Mr. Gomez, because there were elections, and now we find ourselves as we meet. I'd like to know, that, of course, you didn't actually talk about it, the rates don't matter, if you think it's normal that we're in a country that instead of saying, well, because the price of a railway ticket or a railway ticket will have to accommodate people's economic needs or miles away. No, you're charging prices for commercial interests, Mr. Gomez. Yes, this is reality, meet the demands of the user platform and users of this railway line. And, Mr. Gómez, the truth is that I've traveled something, not much but something I've traveled, and that you're talking about Europe is a joke here, it's to cry, because Galicia is the only country in the world, Mr. Gómez, – and I'm from Ferrol, I come from a family that doesn't drive, I'm the only one driving – in which it's impossible materially to communicate by train with any part of the planet, Mr. Gómez. In Europe, more or less, in almost every country, in any normal country, one can communicate justly by boosting the railway in the face of the disaster of the People's Party, which is to encourage nothing more and nothing less than motorway transport. –And now, Mr President. – To encourage self-transport to highways to promote business interests, which are also behind this debate, Mr. Gómez. So I'm sorry that I opposed the Nationalist Block and I didn't meet the demands of the people who are worried about the debate we're having today. In any case, indeed, they will derail in 2018, Mr. Gómez, and indeed the tides and people will end you; that is, democratically noiseless, democratically. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Gómez, I'm not going to take any of your falsehoods in relation to either the BNG, or what we say here, or the lack of respect for the train users and users, because I understand that the elections must have left you a little confused and then, in fact, in that stuttering you didn't hear us, you don't know what we're talking about, you don't know what the railway problems are in this country. [[Murmurs.]] And if you know them worse yet, because you come here to tell us that reality doesn't exist. And, look, the arrangements you opened, I think Mrs. Pastor and Mr. Feijó helped us and gave us that minister that you were so critical. A minister who, by the way, you have never asked to reproach the Spanish Parliament for the mistreatment of this country; you have asked for it to be reprobated by the functioning of the neighbourhoods in Catalonia and have come here to mount a circus, to ride a circus... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u106	Quiet. Quiet, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u107	...in the distracting strategies... Don't threaten me that this is a Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u108	Please, Mr. Gómez Alonso, silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u109	I think you're very, very nervous; very nervous I see you, calm down. And, look, there's no neighborhoods here, where are they? Why do we want a nearby agency if there's no neighborhoods? But what kind of hair jacket is this? Just like Mr. Hernández's coat of hair when he spent a million euros doing feasibility studies on a light meter in Vigo, in Coruña, in Santiago. What's it for? It propagates at the expense of public resources that soon deny us to really modernize the railway. We're moving here today... calm down, or do you want me to remind you of the Peanut Pact, which shielded the AVE in 2015 to Galicia, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Blanco? Please, you have to have some respect for everyone's history and trajectory. And today we're talking about very basic things. Look: that we have more railway services on the lines that are there, with a higher frequency in the lines and at times when there is more demand; that we should be aware that there are needs from a job point of view, from the point of view of the students when using the railway, so that workers and students can use it in the travels between cities and towns, because that is a reality that exists in Galicia and that you give your back. Because if that existed, the number of railway users and users would be much larger, not only between The Coruña and Vigo, but also the rest of the country. And we believe that the people of Orders, the people of Carballino, the people of Padron also have the right to use the railroad. And whoever eliminated half-distance services was the People's Party, it was Mrs. Ana Pastor. Please, what are you talking about? Anyway, we didn't come here today to talk about English...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u111	...you see because you will have a bad conscience, because you know that with greater security systems that accident would have been avoided, and that's very serious. And as they know, what they want is to keep quiet, because the truth would put them in front of a mirror where they couldn't look.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members, on the conduct of management by the Greek Government before the Central Government for the lodging of a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights against Norway for discriminating and not recognizing the years worked on ships of that country
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u113	No amendments have been made and Mr. Val Alonso has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good morning to all and all. Today we are again debating an initiative that has been discussed on several occasions in this Parliament and that there are even unanimous agreements between all the parliamentary groups of this House with a single end, with the sole aim of achieving the defence of the interests of the Greek sailors who worked on the Norwegian ships until the 1990s, in particular, until 1994. And we just bring this initiative right now because, in addition to being something of justice, we think it's the right time, for various reasons: First, because we believe that something was moving forward on the subject, and we created this because about a month ago, the Director-General for Institutional and Parliamentary Relations was worthy to receive the representatives of this group. But unfortunately, we also have to say that it was only that, he was worthy to receive this collective because the fruit of that meeting was rather poor, by not saying any, because the only thing that was told to these affected was that the situation was very difficult, collected the documentation that they brought, and so there remained all the commitment of the Greek Government. So we believe that the steps taken are few, they are insufficient. And even we also believe that some top-level Greek government political representative, whether a counselor, vice-president or president, could have involved a little more with this issue, that – as I say – there are already parliamentary agreements on this issue. And we also bring it right now because – if you don't know – yesterday in Madrid, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a meeting between representatives of the State Counsel and also affected by this group was held, which we have to say also, that no representative of the Greek Government came to support this proposal, despite the fact that there are parliamentary agreements that commanded the Greek Government to defend the question they were going to pose yesterday to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Well, at that meeting, the only thing they were trying to do was to demand and comply with what we agreed here among all, which was that the Government of the Spanish State appealed to the Human Rights Court for precisely violating the European Union's Human Rights Convention. But it wasn't, today's press headline is that "Spain won't take Norway to the Human Rights Court" -- this is the press headline today. We therefore ask from the parliamentary group that the agreements adopted by both the Committee on Fisheries and Maritime Affairs of this Parliament and the plenary session of this House should serve. Agreements calling on the Galician Government and the Government of Spain to take legal measures to bring an action against the Kingdom of Norway, under Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and, in addition, solely for the prohibition and violation of discrimination by nationality, requiring residence for inclusion in the Norwegian social security system to our workers on those ships, in their ships until the 1990s. Something that, on the other hand, was not required of Norwegian nationals employed on those ships. What is the point of these agreements? Where were the representatives of the German Government? Why didn't the representatives of the Long Hope group join the meeting they had yesterday in Madrid? What do you think the German Government and the People's Party of the decision made yesterday? I think these are issues that today must answer the representatives of the People's Party. What do all these parliamentary agreements serve? Are they aware of the German Government and the People's Party that we are talking about a situation and a completely fair claim, that affects a very large group of people, about ten thousand in the whole state, of which about eight thousand are Greeks who have worked on Norwegian flag boats and who are in a circumstance that the Spanish State does not recognize for the purposes of calculating their retirement the time spent in that country, nor is it recognized in that country where they worked, in Norway, and in what they have been paying taxes and taxes like any other citizen of that country, and in many cases above 40% of their salary? Do you know the German Government that this claim is not new? Do you know that the Long Hope collective has been with this claim for years, which has been with intense demanding work, with writings, with complaints, with demonstrations, with meetings and even with visits to Norway itself to claim what they consider fair and what we also agree here was fair? But unfortunately, all these demonstrations and all this work of the Long Hope collective have achieved very little success. Norway is still unaware of the problem and the Spanish State is very little or almost nothing has done to try to answer this problem. And what's more serious: the day yesterday, you've been definitely giving your back to those affected, because you've just recommended that they be individually the ones who file their claims against Norway. And we ask here whether the German Government and the representatives of the People's Party are aware of what this means, if they are aware that this means that individually affected people will first have to turn to ordinary justice in Norway, ending up to the last instance of this whole procedure, and then after that they will individually come to the trial before the European Court of Human Rights. You think this is normal, you know what it means? Well it means that many of them for economic reasons can't do it, and many others won't get there in time, because this is going to mean a very long judicial procedure, and we're talking about people already retired from advanced age, that many of them can never get to see their goal met. And this is the situation they are in right now, and this is the situation in which they were put by the Government of the People's Party of the State, with the complicity of the Government of Galicia and the Council of Galicia, because no high-level political representative took the bull by the horns and put himself in charge of this claim. An unfair question, a situation of total de-protection of a large group of people, of a large group of Spanish citizens who have worked and contributed to Norway under the rules of that country, but today they are not recognized as being entitled to benefit nor to the refund of taxes unduly charged. So, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that we are already at a time when the People's Party can no longer pick up those arguments about the kind of thing they're working on, that they're making contact with different bodies. That's what the People's Party has been constantly used to. Because even the European Union has already recognized the right of these people to be recognised for their benefit, and if not so, the taxes unduly charged for the years they have been working will be returned to them. That is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group today, we are presenting this initiative, because we have a commitment to people and we have a commitment to those affected, and we want to make it clear that we will bring this issue back to this House whenever necessary until a solution is reached. That's our commitment to these people, because here we've already agreed among all of us that it was a fair claim. We therefore hope that this initiative, in addition to having the support of all the groups of the House, I hope so, although I do not know whether after yesterday's decision of the Government of the State will change the opinion of the representatives of the People's Party. I still hope that we will continue to maintain unanimity with this proposal. But, in addition, we must demand the commitment of the President of Galicia, Mr Feijóo's commitment. He's the one who has to stand in front of the claim, this is a political decision, it's a political decision that you have to make by the President of the Council of Galicia. He must be what this question is and what Madrid is going to talk to the representatives of the Government of the State to make a decision already referred to by this Parliament. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u115	Thank you, Mr. Val. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u116	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. This Member will support this initiative. They left their land for their lives, left their families and friends, emigrated to a place of ice and endless nights, worked from sun to sun, paid their taxes, generated wealth for the country's employer – nothing less than 250 million euros of the time in taxes and contributions, on equal terms for any Norwegian citizen – and also generated wealth for their own country, Galicia, recipient of their savings and their illusions. Now they're bigger, and the Norwegian state, which is equal to their retirement benefit by law and also by humanity. The argument used by the Norwegian authorities for the denial of this right cannot be more varied: they claim that these workers were not immigrants, not working on land. Let us remember that we talked about sailors, even though, inevitably, the headquarters of the contracting companies were in Norwegian soil. They welcome this absurd argument to the regularization that I have submitted to the incorporation of Norway into the economic space of the European Union, which I have subjected to the exclusion that our sailors are suffering. The Norwegian Government's attitude violates international jurisprudence, since the European Court of Human Rights qualifies the social benefits of heritage law, insofar as it is one of the assets of a person and constitutes a right of credit against social security. The extinction of this right or its unwarranted objective reduction undermines the guarantor of property in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This injustice was compounded by the failure of the Nordic country to recognize the time worked on Norwegian ships as quoted periods, with the object of being taken into account by the Spanish State at the time of access to its retirement benefit. The demand of this group of citizens without a state cannot be any more logical: the allowance that corresponds to them by law or the amount paid for during working time to the vessels of the Norwegian State must be returned. In this sense, the European Parliament has also stood up, expressing that we are faced with an unfair situation affecting European citizens, and calling on the Norwegian Government, as well as the State of Spain, to reach a bilateral agreement in the interests of these workers. The Galician Parliament itself agreed in March unanimously to urge the Government of the Spanish State to appeal against Norway for discrimination against the Greek sailors aboard its ships. We are therefore in the face of a question of State, not of an individual problem of each of those affected, which remains unresolved, despite institutional support and the fundamental rights of these workers are being violated. They approve this initiative, it's our sailors who emigrated. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u117	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u118	Good morning, ladies. All is as follows: Norway remains unrecognizant of the right to the retirement of sailors aboard the Norwegian fleet until 1994. The Spanish State also does not recognize this boarding time for social security purposes. On the contrary, Norway has taxed them as if they were Norwegian citizens. This causes a situation where they do not have the right to a retirement benefit or the recovery of taxes they paid and did not enjoy. And there are already four or five initiatives in this House urging a solution to this drama that are living over 12,000 Spanish workers, of which about 8,000 are Germans, and which have been with this drama since the 1950s. In these initiatives that have already been brought to the House, I remember that, which is the first, of 2010, where on the initiative of the BNG unanimously agreed to call on the Government of Greece to stand firm in front of the Central Government. And the thought that we could do is, since 2010, what has been done so far? Apart from approving these initiatives here, nothing the People's Party has done. They go there five years without doing anything at all, without even having received and sheltered the collective who has so much quarreling about this claim, fighting in the street, in the institutions, claiming, making this claim come here too. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is perfectly portrayed, but also the president of the Galician Union, who has not yet been able to receive this collective. Do you imagine that this kind of claim would have broken off from other collectives like Anfaco, Citroën, Ence, Elnosa or Pescanova? We see here perfectly portrayed as the PP is tremendously docile and resolute with the powerful, but that instead does not have time for the 8,000 former Norwegian sailors, who at present half is already over 70 years old, and who have to be there, like those of the preferred, in the streets, knocking on the doors, claiming this legitimate right. The second question that I would like to raise – and that here too most of those who have preceded me – is the recognition of Joseph Manuel Carril, who, through the publication of his book, "One question of human rights: the social security protection of our migrant seamen in Norway", to focus in some way on how the conflict could be resolved, and already proposed – and it was unanimously – that there were two possible solutions: the individual route and that it was the collective itself that claimed in front of the Norwegian State or whether it was the State itself. And already, when we presented this initiative, we justified how much faster and much more logical it was the Spanish State itself, which claimed before the European Court of Human Rights, because we are talking about a collective with an advanced age and because the individual solution required, as previously the PSOE spokesperson, to have to exhaust all the proceedings in the State itself. So now we recognize and know exactly what the position of the People's Party is, we recognise exactly what the position of the Government of the State is, that once again, once again, gives the former Norwegian workers back, gives them back to people's rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u119	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u120	...which claim a fundamental right: the fundamental right to be entitled to retirement, or, if not, to return to them the updated taxes that they paid directly, and which amounts to about 520 million euros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are – now yes – seeing the reality of the position of the People's Party, which once again, rather than being accompanying our workers, instead of being accompanying Galicia's interests, is once again betraying them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u121	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u122	Good morning to all of you. Once again we bring the opposition groups together a proposal, in this case the Socialist Party's initiative, which has already been adopted in this Parliament on several occasions, but which demonstrates the lack of commitment to the agreements which are being adopted in Parliament by the majority group of the House for now, not so of society. The majority group of the House, not so much as society, is now unable to comply with parliamentary agreements; an agreement as simple as getting into the hands of the Greek sailors who in their day worked in Norway, who are more than 8,000, and who have been demanding a just solution to a problem certainly caused by the incompetence of the state governments and the social injustice of the Norwegian Government. It seems incredible that nothing should be done once they are the ones who have to be in the street every day because the government doesn't support them. All opposition groups have demonstrated their commitment to this demand. They've even been with this collective in a forceful way to demand the solution of their problem, but there's someone missing, missing the German Government. Where is the German Government in this situation? When we've been adopting initiatives in this direction for years, what were the attitudes, actions and of course the commitment of the Greek Government to solve this problem? And the saddest thing is that yesterday the Government of the State has thrown balloons out saying that it has no more responsibility on this issue and that all they're going to do is move a similar case to the Court of the European Union – which we believe from now on has nothing to do with it – about a matter of seafarers' pensions on Dutch ships, when it has nothing to do with it, because we're talking about a question of integrated countries in the European Union, which is not the case of Norway. So here's really the popular party's typical action when it comes to people of a certain age: allowing time to pass in the hope that the end of life of those who claim will end the claim. And that is certainly regrettable, the attitude of the People's Party in this regard. And we're talking about that there are already clear enough arguments to show that they're facing a fair claim and the legal part. Those taxes that were collected by the Norwegian Government to our sailors are part of the financing of their pensions, because the Norwegian pension system also receives funds from the State's own budgets, not only from the contributions made by Norwegian workers. And so these sailors have been contributing not only to the well-being of the Norwegian people, but also to the pensions of those who have a right in Norway who are not these workers. And they're not because of a clear injustice: the injustice of obliging them to the residence when other pensioners are not obliged to the residence to be worthy of this pension. And besides, they even violate their own contracts. Those of us in the Norwegian National Archives, reviewing contracts for these ships, could observe how in their clauses – in 35, in 32 – it was clear that they would have the same rights, the same rights, not only the same working conditions, but the same rights and recognitions in all directions as Norwegian sailors. Therefore, the Norwegian Government knew that he had some sailors who in theory signed a contract that granted them the same rights, which he now does not recognize. And what does our state do to claim to the Government of Norway to fulfill the contract? Look the other way. Why? Because, once again, when the Government of the State has to stand by the workers or another government, what it does is to stand by the powerful, and in this case the powerful is the Norwegian Government, with whom the State has economic relations that it does not want to put at risk to defend its workers. And we believe that, first, we must defend justice, and it is fair that these workers receive the refund of money unduly stolen by the Norwegian Government. And in that sense, that's what you're thinking. You can't imagine going to an individual lawsuit in front of the Norwegian courts, because that means that, when you solve this, there will no longer be sailors to whom to pay, and possibly yes to their families, but not to the sailors. That means years of lawsuit before the Norwegian courts, with costs that in many cases they could not assume these sailors, when the solution is easy: a state demand before the European Court of Human Rights for something as simple as the violation of this right of non-discrimination on the grounds of nationality. The Norwegian Government, who claims to be an advanced state, discriminated against the Greeks simply by being a Greek, so to speak, and therefore a State that does not defend its nationals as Galicia is a state that is certainly leaving those who vote for them orphaned. So, of course, it's the last time they vote for them, because they don't defend or defend who they have to defend, which are the Greeks who in this case worked in Norway on equal terms with the others except to receive this benefit that is fair and recognized in legal texts. By the way, the Norwegian Government itself, in his letter addressed to these sailors, recognized that neither yes nor no, that there were legal issues to recognize this situation but that it was a political decision. So they force that political situation and force the Norwegian Government to pay what our sailors owe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Martinez Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Again, an initiative is being taken to this Parliament in relation to the existing problem surrounding the collection of a pension or economic consideration for the work done on the Norwegian flag vessels of our sailors by date prior to 1994 and which, as you all know, have not yet been recognised today. Since we've been dealing with this matter in plenary just a few weeks ago, I don't want to be very repetitive in arguments and I'm going to be brief trying to make our position clear once again. Go forward to our solidarity with the actions carried out by both the sailors in their personal capacity and through the Long Hope association, which, we understand, seek nothing but the recognition of a right that rightly and just corresponds to them. This is one of the few issues that historically create a great consensus among all political forces, and almost unanimously approve all initiatives presented at both national and autonomic levels. We already said in the plenary mentioned that we felt that Norway's position on this issue was untenable and that the excuses given are better suited to a poor payer and impropriety of a State who claims to be respectful of human rights, because in the case of other countries in similar cases there was no inconvenience in recognizing these rights. We understand that the amounts owed, even though it is important for those affected, do not pose any problem for a country like Norway, of high economy, as much as its payment is supposed to open a door to future claims by sailors from other countries. The historical review of the actions taken by the Spanish Government makes it very clear who put everything on his side to solve the problem and who did nothing but put stones on the way, going back to the first negotiating attempts in the 1950s. We said that there was a moment in 1982 when an agreement was about to be signed between the two countries that would have solved the problem, but at the last moment, as you well know, Norway turned back to the pressure of the shipowners' employer and the Norwegian trade unions. And all of this we know from the Norwegian Administration's declassified documents that the Long Hope association has made public. We also pointed out that, since then, this process has slowed down almost until 2011, which is when it resumes forcefully, as we can read in the official responses given by the Central Government to questions from opposition groups. That's why we were presenting on his day an amendment where we were asking the Central Government for a new diplomatic offensive as a last attempt to enable a friendly exit between the two countries. We also reflected that this new negotiation should have a time limit and, once the deadline is over or in parallel, if no agreement is reached, the Spanish Government should take this case to the Strasbourg Court, in accordance with the initiatives adopted unanimously in this Parliament and based on the analysis of the new existing data. And since international relations fall within the competence of the State, we did not doubt whether the Spanish Government should take the relevant legal measures and demand Norway on the basis of failure to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights. And despite the news we can read today in the media, we don't know what the official position of the Spanish Government is before the councils and opinions of state jurists. They tell us that the central government – and the news confirms it – is working on the most effective solution to conquer the desired and pursued goal by all. And since those affected gave us a transfer on their day that, in their view, the above-mentioned demand could be the best way, we will continue to support their fair claims and maintain our position as long as there are no new data to advise other ways that can be more effective. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u125	Thank you, Mr. Martinez Sierra. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Val. Give Mr. Val a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, we thank the support of all the House groups for their efforts to move forward with this initiative. The truth is, it's a commitment that can't be left there alone, so it can't remain in that, in a parliamentary agreement. We believe that we are talking about an important problem, a group of people completely unprotected to which a State has literally stolen the fruit of its work. So you can't just stay on that, in a parliamentary agreement. Here someone has to involve much more than he's doing, because I think it's very good that Mr. Feijóo travels to Madrid to talk to Mr. Rajoy about the results of last Sunday's elections, but he could also lead to issues like this in his agenda, issues that affect more than 8,000 Greeks to whom the Norwegian state owes about 520 million euros. And I wonder what would happen if, instead of being sailors, it was a great multinational, it was Pescanova, for example, who was in this situation. What would be the position of the People's Party? Would you defend with the same intensity as you are doing now or would you defend with another much stronger intensity? And that's the point. We're talking about a political decision. Yesterday the State's own lawyer literally said that there is sufficient matter to raise resources, but that it is not their competence, that it is competition and a political decision. So this is settled above, Mr. Vidal Martínez, this is settled above, and Mr. Feijóo will have to be what takes up this parliamentary agreement and goes to Madrid and negotiates with Mr. Rajoy the presentation of this appeal before the European Court of Human Rights. And that's how it is. So dignify the activity of this House. They don't let parliamentary agreements remain in the drawer. It's just this, to dignify this House and what we do here, and here there's a parliamentary agreement, which has been repeated on many occasions, so that this goes ahead. So let's not come here again to solidarity only because of what we're doing and the effort that the Long Hope association is making. We're talking about an important issue, we're talking about yesterday being told to sailors who individually present their demand, and that means that many of them will never get to see that goal, because they're older people, because many of them have no economic resources. And that's what we're talking about, about commitment, about effort and involvement of the German Government. We've been on this issue for a long time, and I've never seen Mr Feijó with which this problem was on his schedule. So, you, who are the group that supports and supports the action of the Government, demand your president to put this matter in his agenda and give him an immediate solution. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u127	Thank you, Mr. Val. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the Greek language in the judicial field
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u128	Two amendments were made to this non-legislative proposal: one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u129	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs Vilan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u130	Good morning. Today we are here to present a non-law proposal that gives visibility to the Welsh language, to the cultural identity, therefore of our country, in a very specific field which is the scope of justice, in which the Greek language practically does not exist. On March 27, 88, a magistrate of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia for the first time handed down a sentence in Greek, and his work was recognized many years later, not by the Administration, but by an organization, an association of people concerned about the use of Greek in justice, who formed the Galician Juridical Brotherhood. The Language Standardization Act, of the year 83, has an article – 7 – which says that all stakeholders in each of the charges have the right to be notified of the procedure in the official language they choose, and in Galicia there are two official languages: Spanish and Greek; they can even ask the judicial organs to be given judgments in English. The Socialists believe that the lawyers of the Galician Council, the lawyers of the autonomous administration, should do this work, and that is precisely what this initiative is about. We have an example to support in Galicia, which is the Court of the Foundry. Since the 1990s, i.e., twenty-five years ago, he's been carrying out his judicial activity in Welsh. The protagonists are not the representatives of the Administration, of course, but they are the officials and the judges, who voluntarily decided to provide their services in Greek for twenty-five years, and all of them belong to the Galician Juridical Brotherhood. In all these years the Court of the Fonsgrada had no negative note, and therefore it should be a model – we socialists understand – to export to the rest of Galicia. But what's really missing is the will of the Galician Union to put it on the move. The only real will is that of the workers of the court, and even the lawyers who represent the Greek Public Administration have no will and they are not motivated to have this will. The Galician Juridical Brotherhood even made proposals to institutions, to trade unions, so that the juridical councils of the trade unions are involved in the use of the Greek language in the process activity, and this – we understand – should be the model of the Union, because it is not. There are no measures to involve juridical operators of the Union in the use of the Greek language in the process; there is no support from the Galician Union, and therefore from the Government, for models such as that of the Court of the Foundry. And it's not that we, the socialists, say it, but that the data are the data of the Galician Juridical Brotherhood. In Galicia we have no official data, no official data that is moderately up-to-date and reliable of judgments handed down in English. Interestingly, curiously, the only official data we had was from 2009, when that evil government of Emilio Pérez Touriño edited a White Book of Justice in Galicia and said that the judgments handed down by the provincial hearings and the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia were 3.5% in Welsh and 96.5% in Spanish. That there is no official data already significant. As of today, these figures have not changed substantially. In the provincial audiences, the only regular work in Welsh comes from the Second Section of the Provincial Audience in Pontevedra. And here we have to do an incision, recognizing the work of the magistrate who has said most judgments in Greek since he is a magistrate, who received a prize a few days ago, and who is the magistrate José Juan Barreiro Prado. It's a reference and an example of work, not only for your colleagues, but mainly for this administration, for this government, which should take it into account and promote that the magistrates do the job like that. In the Lugo Provincial Court there are some judgments in German, in the other provincial hearings there are none. At the High Court of Justice in Galicia, until this May, there is only one magistrate who sometimes regularly does his work in Greek. Symbolically, there are fewer than forty judgments on civil law, especially our indigenous civil right, which translates into Greek, is not that they fail in Greek. Of the first instance judges, there is no official data, but members of the Glaga Juridical Brotherhood say that only 5% of judgments are reached in English. We cannot contrast data, because the court database does not exist on these issues, there are only judgments of the provincial hearings – some – and those of the High Court of Justice. The territorial distribution by provinces is exactly the same as frightening in the data I just said. In Ourense there is no magistrate who always works in Greek, in Lugo there are four, in Coruña there are four, and the rest – few – are from Pontevedra province. And finally, let's give an example, of a data that gives us to the Gaulega Juridical Brotherhood, and it's that in Lugo, in Lugo, in Lugo province, all the lawyers and all the assembled lawyers make their oral exhibitions exclusively in Spanish, and in Greek they almost exclusively make their writings. The situation is frightening. You, who are the language's biggest advocates, should do something, at least update data since 2009. And so, with all this data – and we suppose, for sure, there are many more – we understand that there are sufficient reasons for them to vote in favour of this non-law proposal. Justice is a very closed world, which needs to open up to citizens, it needs clean air. There are many citizens who speak in English, who come to trial and speak automatically in Spanish, because they are afraid that these gentlemen sitting there will not understand them, because they speak in the language of their people. Therefore, in your hands you are changing the model, copying the model of the Background. Vote in favour and copy this model from the Background. They involve their lawyers, the lawyers of the Greek Public Administration, in the use of the Greek language in their demands, and in their demands they collect what is asked of us by the Legal Brotherhood of Galicia, which expressly collects Article 7.2 of the Law of Linguistic Standardization – which, of course, is by Don Manuel Fraga, who did not even make it the governments of that wicked socialist president – and tell their lawyers, they involve us to request that the files received by the Council of Galicia – and therefore these lawyers – be referred to in Greek, and that the judicial bodies ask the lawyers, judges and judges to speak their judgments in Greek. We hope that they will vote in favour, and then I will talk about the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u132	Very good day again. A few days ago, the Galician Nationalist Block defended in Commission 1 an initiative that was precisely about what we called the apartheid that in practice takes place for the Greek language in the field of justice. At that time, what I was acting as spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group – which, well, I don't know, in any case, if you are going to do so today in this session – is that everything was okay and that the situation was normal. Because, of course, here we have a huge contradiction, and it is that the People's Party defends as normal that the Greek language is excluded and marginalized from very important areas of social life. And languages are not decorative objects or hairy objects to love and embrace, but have their meaning in the social event. The language is a social product, and we, as a society, have not to love the language, but to use it normally and overcome the obstacles so that the Greek language regains the space it has. Because the exclusion of Greek in justice comes from a distance, doesn't it? We'd have to talk about the dark centuries, wouldn't we, about all the politics that was made against the Greek language at that time? And it's an abnormality, therefore, that it has more than five centuries of history, and that democracy in its version of the Spanish transition has not surpassed either. And he hasn't overcome it, among other things, because judicial power is a power that in its conception is fundamentally centralist. And within this centralism which practises the State, the language of Galician, like Catalan and Basque, are not considered languages in the Spanish state. Because there's a predominance that's, in addition, marked in legislation and that makes a difference. If we were here today, right? Because the judges didn't have to know Spanish to exercise in Madrid, surely none of the ladies sitting here would look like a logical proposal. However, at least on this side of the benches, on my right side, on my right side, where the Members and Members of the People's Party sit, you seem normal that in order to exercise justice in Galicia, you don't have to know German. And this for us is a very important democratic deficit. First, so it means discrimination for a language. But, behind the discrimination for a language, there is the discrimination of an entire people, of all Greeks and Greeks, who see limited access to justice in their own language and in their own country. I mean, in justice, the English language clearly is treated like a foreign language. The data we have – we have made reference here – are data that provides us with the Galician Juridical Brotherhood, because the Galician Union has no data or information, right?, which in itself is a sample and an accusation of the defect that exists in connection with this matter. We defend in our amendment that there is a whole range of measures that should be addressed, in addition to what is requested by the Socialist Group, by which we agree, and that at least the lawyers who exercise on behalf of the Galician Union use the Greek language in judicial acts. It seems to me that the minimum commitment, some – we say – is minimal, that is, the minimum that can be asked to an administration that really believes that there is a need to take steps to end the exclusion of that marginalization, of that apartheid that suffers from the Greek language in the judicial field. We understand, from BNG, that we have to go much further. We understand that it's logical for the judges to know German. It seems to us – I don't know – a thing of common sense. I don't understand the refusal that the Greek language has the same status as the Spanish language, unless, of course, there are languages that don't have the same rights as the others. We also believe that, for example, it would be logical for the administration of justice programs to use Greek normally. And this happens because there was a political decision that triggered a change in the administration's computer system that excludes the Greek language. It's a political decision, it's not a problem for families or for other people. We also understand that other things, for example, important in order to be able to make use of justice in Greek, are that the whole normative corpus that has to be used is in the English language, and not just in the Spanish language, as now happens with most of the consolidated legal texts. And this is basic from the point of view of legal security, which I understand you don't have to explain to them why it has to happen. These are some of the issues that we have pointed out in those ten points, because this non-legislative proposal that a few days ago defended the Nationalist Block of Wales in this Parliament. We believe that a justice that leaves the Greek is not fair, and we think that justice in the Spanish state, not only for this, but for other matters, is a great deal of proving the name of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Well, to begin with, I celebrate that Mrs. Vilán had appeared today in this gallery and had started to be unfaithful; she was unfaithful to the subordination marriage that traditionally kept the Socialist Party on language issues with regard to the Galego Nationalist Block. That is why I welcome the fact that today, in a positive sense, a proposal with a tone – which I celebrate – of thought, which is the way forward to the idea that we all advocate promotion of the Greek language. And indeed, it speaks of a question which is a complex and difficult issue, but it is difficult in Galicia and it is difficult in other territories with its own language. I don't know if the data is official, but they're published in Sermos Galicia. For example, in the Basque Country, the presence of judgments in the Basque Country, in the justice of that territory, is purely anecdotal; in Catalonia it is 12 %. And it's a difficult problem, because, as is logical, they come into competition on the subject of justice, on the one hand, autonomous competences and, on the other hand, state competences, which makes the coexistence of languages and their relationship tense. The way to solve this problem, Mrs Vilán? Well, I think there's only two. One is that of fracturing and maximalism, which is why nationalism opts for, especially on that initiative that Mrs Pontón referred to, presented in Commission 1st, which opts for the absolute pre-eminence of Greek, for the absolute galeguization of justice, within the concept of national sovereignty which defends the Nationalist Block of Galicia. The other way is to balance the use of languages, which sets out the normative framework – the Constitution, the Statute and the Law of Linguistic Standardization – which logically is the criterion that we have chosen. For that reason, the Greek Government is firmly committed to promoting and using Greek in justice, with regard to the criteria for equality and balance in the use of languages and the language rights of the people who use them. With regard to the initiative you put forward, we agree in depth, and we also defend the work of the Galician Juridical Brotherhood and how many in the sector work for the promotion of language. What's going on is we have some difficulties in the way it's proposed. We agree with the implication of the U.S. lawyers and the fact that, in the proceedings in which they intervene, these actions are transferred to the courts in the Greek language. We agree because this reflects the legal framework provided for in Article 231 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, as well as the additional provision of the Organic Regulation of the Juridical Counsel of the Board, which already provides for the use of Greek by the lawyers. But this is different from what is envisaged in the second part of the initiative, with regard to the fact that the files are transferred to the English-speaking public, and very much especially as regards the fact that the judgments are given in English. This problem is complicated, because you well know that, as set out in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, the judicial authorities have no obligation, but it is a power over the use of languages, as well as their own language, as well as the common language. Therefore, if the judgment was drafted in English, there was no problem with his transfer to the lawyers, but in case he is not, the only possibility is to turn to the translation service of the Galician Board existing in the High Court, in the provincial hearings and in the Directorate-General of Justice. And so it basically refers to the fact that the judgments are given in English, the way in which the initiative is drafted, which requires the lawyers to be ordered to insist that these sentences are said, precisely the lawyers, who have to respect and maintain and enforce legality, does not seem very logical that through this writing they mediate what is a power of the judicial authorities. For that reason, we present the amendment in the sense – I insist – to move forward in the promotion of language, for the purpose, rather than in the literal content of it, to reach an agreement to make possible the bottom of the initiative, making ours also clear about the legal framework established. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u135	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u136	Thank you, President. Article 7.2 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization says textually: "The judicial proceedings in Galicia shall be valid and shall produce their effects regardless of the official language used. In any case, the party or interested person shall have the right to be heard or notified in the official language he or she chooses." Thirty-two years after the adoption of this law, the rule is not observed. Everything, or almost everything, is being drafted in Spanish. Resolutions written in our language do not reach 5% today, and a language will not be fully official unless it is incorporated into legal relations. The presence of the language in justice is clearly testimony, not only in judgments and writing, but also in any form, printed, resource and also in the oral language. That's how Carlos Varela, former prosecutor of Justice, and member of the so-called "Judget Brotherhood" Glaga, acknowledges that he can be believed that the right of citizenship to receive service in his own language is currently not guaranteed. This situation also contradicted the main purpose of the Public Administration, which is to ensure effective compliance with the legal system, such as the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and other regulations establishing the co-operation of the Greek language. But in the face of a tragic and urgent situation, radical measures come together. Changing this discriminatory situation of language is not possible if the lacks of linguistic diversity are not met in the law-study plans in the Greek universities and without bringing forward the normalizing spirit to the schools of lawyers, prosecutors, notaries, registries and all the associations and unions have the right to the stage of their professional activities; without changing a context in which the knowledge of Greek is not a requirement to be judicial or fiscal, for example, it will not be possible. And being cared for in your own language depends to this day on attitude, not on the skill of the shift professional. It would also be desirable to apply the legal principle of positive discrimination, which would favour language in inferiority of conditions so that the principle of linguistic co-feficiality was real and effective. Otherwise, the principle of equality established by the Spanish Constitution would not be such. As a matter of fact, the centralized applications of judicial bodies should have versions in English that enable the production of written material in our language, and establish the necessary organisational measures to ensure the presence in public care services, which are fundamental to the normalization of a language and in judicial and police administrations, staff sufficiently trained in language skills, putting this aspect in value in quality plans or in the evaluation of services. And to finish, given the relevant role motivated by its direct relationship with the press, the communications offices of the judicial and security institutions are one of the ideal frameworks for promoting the use of the Greek language in public interventions and press releases. We support this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u137	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u138	Good morning to all and to all. This initiative is part of the dozens – I believe – that they have already defended themselves in plenary and commission and that they speak of two distinct, antagonistic perspectives, that of the Executive and that of the majority group that sustains the Executive, who says that everything is well, that there are two languages in perfect balance that live harmoniously in society, what they call "harmonic bilingualism", and that it is an absolute scientific fallacy, because, of course, there is no balance in social use in society, no balance in functions, no balance in the possibility of being able to live both in Greek and in Spanish... Of course, in Greek living often cannot be made. Therefore, we are faced with a fallacy which is imposed by itself, and that fallacy is imposed in two sad ways: on the one hand, through the substitution of the language dominated by the dominant, where the Spanish is being imposed in increasing usages; and so they say the surveys of the IGE, and on the other hand, in an assimilation process that is destroying above the inner nature of the Greek language through the processes of Castelanization which are even undoing the Greek language inside. So substitution and assimilation is what we are living today because of an erratic linguistic policy or not, because perhaps that is the deliberate will of the People's Party not to favor at all the process of normalization of the Greek language, because today what we live is a defeat. That is, in the range of 5 to 14 years, they speak in Spanish 75% normally, 75%; in German, therefore, 25%. That's reality, and it's not guaranteed, in addition, the generational relief. Justice, as has already been said, is a social issue more than it sees as there are examples, cases, that prove that it can be done, but of course there is no political will on the part of the Council of Galicia to be done everywhere. Because it can't just be willful volunteerism, it has to be a policy that guarantees linguistic rights, a basic citizenship right, like being able to live in Greek. But that's not done. Galician prosecutor himself acknowledged here that the Greek was not normalized and that, therefore, he did not pay attention, the linguistic right of Greek citizenship is not guaranteed. So that's a reality. You have to work but you don't want to do it, because you're also keeping a social image with your policy, a social image of the Greek, which contributes to maintaining prejudices, stigmas, which contributes to making the use of the Spanish language more relevant, and it's happening that in displacements people who come from rural leave the Greek as soon as they run the city, because you're still inoculating a social imagination of usability, of honorability, for people who use the Spanish language. We, logically – we have said it in several contexts – do not want the Welsh language to be a museum worthy of one, let's say, ethnographic object worthy of appreciation, worthy of will, folklore...; no, we want it to be our language the language of habitual use and everyday use in society, we want it to be the language that has the possibility to dispute leisure spaces, because that's where youth, logically, could see that usability. But in leisure spaces, in spaces of communication, in whatever space you walk in day to day, commerce, health... you're losing. In education we are losing it, in justice the index of linguistic normalization was less than 30% in the last known data, because there is no scientific data on the part of Language Policy. The last data was 2007-2008, and they spoke of 30%. So we're in a context of regression, in a context of assimilation of Spanish linguistic forms, and we're in a context of substitution that makes Spanish enforceable to Greek. And, therefore, we, who have already defended it by active and passive even, as the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages says, will have to bet decidedly on by contexts of linguistic immersion in Greek so as not to permanently lose the language. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u139	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor to Mrs. Vilan. Please give a voice to Mrs Vilan's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u140	Thank you, President. The first thing I want to do is to thank the groups that support this initiative, and I am surprised that the representative of the People's Party qualifies me as unfaithful. I can receive many adjectives, but the one of infidels I think it is not one that should receive, neither I personally nor my government at the time when I was presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, because there was, in addition to this White Paper of Justice of the year 2009 – and therefore there is no kind of infidelity – an announcement – which I personally remember – that in 2008-2009 some judges and judges who went out on Galician Television defending Welsh in the field of justice were featured. From that moment until today... and welcome, Mr. President and Mr. Vice-President of the Government, who can take good note that there is no official data from the Galician Council on the use of Greek in the field of justice. Therefore, I don't think we are. What I am asking the representatives of the People's Party to be here, the representatives of the Government, is to do something. This initiative is in the sense that they do something, that they are shown. This is the first step, we will bring more initiatives to this plenary in the sense that not only in the field of justice is Greek used, but that you are not firmly committed to the use of Greek in the field of justice. I'm not asking them, we're not asking the socialists to order their lawyers, judges and judges to pronounce judgments in English. They read the non-law proposal again, and they understand what the non-law proposition makes, because it doesn't. He says if they are ordered to insinuate, to request, that the judgments be given in English and that the judicial proceedings be notified in Greek, which is another very different thing and which, by the way, comes specifically in the Language Standardization Act of 1983. The 3.5 % data and no data currently exists are a shame for any government that prays that its bet is by harmonic bilingualism. I'm a shame! By the way, they might take advantage of the fact that in the court case between 40% and 50% of the proceedings are of their lawyers; that in the civil jurisdiction in matters of disability they also intervene their lawyers; that in the criminal court there is a policeman, who is the autonomous, who could write the testimony in Greek, that the Immelga could write their reports in Greek... the fields are infinite. Of course, I refuse your amendment because it's just a toast to the sun to keep doing nothing. And we can't accept the amendment from BNG because it's a substitution amendment and they go much further than this amendment in particular, but we tell them that, if this amendment of BNG is presented in this plenary as an initiative, we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u141	We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We started by voting on the non-legislative motion by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Prado del Río, who said that he did not accept the socialist amendment. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary for the implementation of the guidelines laid down in the Plan for the Improvement of Public Procurement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u142	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal from the Gaga de Left Alternative Parliamentary Group, which I believe accepts the amendments tabled. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece for payment to the account of the fundamental part of wages or compensations of workers affected by employers' compensation processes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u143	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Piñeiro, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolyto Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of the measures necessary to deepen the implementation of educational programmes, methodologies and subjects that promote improvement in the skills in oral expression of the student of ESO and Bachelorate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u144	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores, which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Galicia Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the labour situation of the workers of the subcontracts of telecommunications operators. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u145	Excuse me? [[Mr. Soneira Tajes: Mr. Jorquera and the President were wrong.]] Yes, but as the result is the same, the numbers, even though we've changed... It's 41 and 32. [[Laughter]] But what happens is there's a change of vote. That's why I didn't notice it, because the result was the same. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We then voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at Mrs Díaz's initiative, which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the management to be carried out in Galicia in relation to the schedules, frequencies and prices of the new railway services of the Atlantic axis between Vigo and La Coruña, as well as the momentum of the creation of a nearby Greek network. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u146	We voted on the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the supply, operation and charges of railway services in Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u147	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Val Alonso, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members, on the conduct of management by the Greek Government before the Central Government for the lodging of a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights against Norway for discriminating and not recognizing the years worked on ships of that country The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u148	Finally, we voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Vilán Lorenzo, who said that he did not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the use of the language of Greek in the judicial field The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u149	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5, which is interpeleration. Interpellation from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Greece with regard to the results of the policy followed in the field of youth
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u150	Mrs Gallego Calvar, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor to address the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Labour and Wellness Counsellor, the truth is that throughout yesterday's day and today's morning we also hear some amazing things here in your intervention, in your yesterday's appearance, and even in the intervention of the President of the Board this morning. We listened to you yesterday assuming that the employment policy budgets were increased by a state agreement in EUR 12 million for this year. I haven't heard anything in all this time, not even your opinion or your claim before the Central Government, about the more than 387 million euros we've lost in Galicia since it started this year, so the Central Government is saving its spending on unemployment benefits. We didn't hear anything from him. Of course, if you gladly renounce 387 million euros between January and February and March and instead you're happy with 12 million euros that you get at a sectoral conference, because, counselor, I think that would not be to be very happy. We also hear the president come back to twist the statistics, as it will probably pass in response to this interpellation that we socialists present with you today, twist the statistics to say that in Galicia today there is less poverty than when the socialists were ruling, when we all know what today is that the average wage has fallen and therefore the levels of poverty seem to be less because of the statistical effect, but actually, poverty has increased in our country by 20% since Mr Feijóo's ruling. I hope, Counselor, that, with these background, you in this inquiry, in which we intend to evaluate the youth policies of the Board these years, do not continue to twist the statistics. Because look, if any lessons you want to learn from what happened on Sunday -- because on Sunday things have happened, and very serious, for your party, counselor -- if any lessons you want to learn from what happened on Sunday, is that this policy that you are following in terms of cutting rights, in terms of cuts in freedoms and in terms of cuts in social policy is being punished by the electorate, in the whole of Spain, also in Galicia, Counsellor, also in Galicia. So I hope you don't resort to the usual, i.e. twisting statistics and saying that they do everything right, and that you have a minimal self-criticism capacity. Because look, Counselor, in matters of youth policy I can say, without fear of deceiving myself, in view of the data I'm going to stir up, that you, if anything is lacking in this government, is a policy of youth. There is no transversal youth policy, which covers several councils, although it should obviously be piloted by you, since competition lies in your council. All there is is is inconsequential, scattered measures, in many cases stigmatizing youth, counsellor. Budget resources are increasingly scarce. Ever since you came to the Government, you've fallen more and more, and the few that are used to fund youth activities and entities linked in many cases to the Popular Party, Counsellor. And if not, we will also talk in this speech about what is happening with the financing of this activity called Parliament Youth or what is going on with summer camps, where each year we have complaints of the people who are presenting themselves, and of the companies who are presenting themselves to the adjudication of these camps, because each year they go to the same companies, always the same. Look, Counselor, since you've been in the government, they've emptied the Youth Council, they've been whaled with competitions, they've been whaled with content, and the boys and girls have no representation anymore. Since you are in the Government, the youth unemployment rate has already exceeded the youth employment rate, when in 2009 the inheritance you received was more than twice the unemployment rate at the unemployment rate. Since you rule here and in Madrid, help has been put to an end to independence and to develop the life plan of young people and girls, which was called basic emancipation income, which had facilitated access to housing for over 20,000 young people and girls in Galicia. There's no access to quality jobs," said my companion Thursday yesterday. The increasingly scarce job is temporary, precarious and low-wage, thanks to this job reform supported enthusiastically by Mr Feijóo and yourself. This job reform enables, as an advisor, if you don't remember, that young people and girls can learn for an indecent wage, up to 33 years, for less than 500 euros. You've cut out scholarships and scholarships. We have the most scandalous example in what happened with Erasmus bags, which after a completely embarrassing periployment, between variable decisions, cross-accused accusations with the European Union and denied by the European Commissioners themselves, the reality is that they dropped by more than 60% a cut in those bags. You have increased university rates, even though Mr. Feijóo lives installed in propaganda. As for the second, third and fourth enrolments and subsequent enrolments, university rates have increased. They went down first to wash their faces, but the reality is that access to university is much more expensive today. You said, when they arrived at the Government in 2009, that Thursday was their priority, that they were going to put the Galician youth in the foreground and that they were going to approve a youth employment plan before the end of 2009. They missed the truth. They didn't approve it until last year. And it's not really a plan like youth employment, which is the measures that were already put in place by the Government, they put in him the name of youth. They also announced, the bomb and plate, a strategic plan of youth, which was born with all the evases of the world. To begin with, he didn't even come to this Parliament. He does not consider any measure cross-sectionally, he does not set up a determined youth policy and does not above all help to maintain in Galicia a generation of young and young people who are going to immigration because they do not find opportunities on their land, with the grave prejudice that this implies, Counselor, not only for them and their families, because they are personal dramas and family dramas, but it is also a serious prejudice to Galicia, because we are losing the best-trained people, who are going to work for other countries that will soon compete with us, with that human capital that we have here formed among all of us. Yes, Counselor, you use young people and girls in election campaigns – this, the truth, in the latter, they didn't dare like the others – but they use them to talk about them, and to sell them things that they've never done before. Not only did they dare to use them as a claim, but they even dared to boycott everything they could have voted on by mail. I know not one case, but hundreds of cases of boys and girls who are in immigration and who wanted to vote in these elections and who when they went to the consulates and embassies didn't put anything else you're trying to prevent them from gaining access to that right that is everyone's and everyone's, counselor. Yes, yes, yes, counselor, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Look, election campaign, advisor, 2009 electoral campaign: Feijóo promises direct aid and public housing prices for young people to access 60,000 unemployed homes. What about these dwellings, these 60,000 unoccupied dwellings that young people and girls are going to access? Last year's election campaign, two years ago, when you took up the confidence of the Greeks: Young people don't have a job but go less than with the bipartisan. Counselor, forty young men and girls every day leave Galicia, 13,000 young men and girls go every year to the foreign country because here they have no job opportunities. Look, the youth strike rate between 16 and 29 years has risen by 60% since you reached the Government. The employment or occupation rate has dropped by 30% since you reached the Government. I'm using official statistics:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u152	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u153	...the active population survey. These data are much more negative than those of the state as a whole – my colleague Mr. Méndez Romeou told the President of the Union today. Not only does it destroy jobs, there is not only fewer people busy, there is a counselor, but the little job that grows up much less than in the state. You're bad managers and of course you're not worried about anything about youth politics more than advertising, advertising, without any concrete action, that's right, driving out forty young people and girls from our country every day without giving them any chance here. That's the evaluation that we socialists make of their youth policy. Counselor, if you have any data that contradicts what I just said, show them here today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u154	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. The work and well-being advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u155	Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gallego, I see that you must not be satisfied yesterday with the intervention of your colleague Mrs. Quintas, because you again make a pseudo-interpellation on employment by making different claims that obviously corresponded to yesterday's interpellation but that I have no problem in answering. [[Murmurs.]] I, of course, can assure you, Mrs Gallego, that this council, this government will not give up or renounce anything at all, and of course less than EUR 387 million, which, as you say, are unemployed and are therefore unemployed and not self-employed. What you don't want to talk about, although you've then finished talking about what is supposed to be the interpellation of today, which is the youth policy, is from the last report you've published today, but it's a report yesterday, about the quality of life of our community, which comes to show how you say and are talking isn't true, especially the linked to poverty and even the situation of quality of life, because it puts our community – and you know very well – as one of the communities in these indicators, in these sad indicators, of what are better than the rest of Spain. That's something you won't come here to talk about. You will generally speak of the demagogy that we are accustomed to in our community, but never comparing it with the communities of the rest of the country. He also talks at the end of what he's supposed to be interested in. Look, you might be very interested in dependency, you might be very interested in employment policies, you might be very interested in youth, but at least you work a little, and that every time you present a written interview at least modify the text, because in all the queries you make to this board, be dependent, be employed, be young, the text is identical, be identical. It's hard for him to write two sheets and then ask a question that's absolutely different. So much concern shouldn't have, if not, what you shouldn't have is time to be able to do it. And, man!, that the Socialist Party now comes to talk about the politics of youth, that the Socialist Party now asks about the politics that is done and that is developed with the young, when they have the opportunity to rule and have done nothing and from the Bipartisan Government the only policy that was done with the young was the politics of leisure, because it is the least appealing. For this... yes, yes, yes, the politics of leisure. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to tell you, they were going to use the youth policy to play with the Germans. Do you remember what the Brothers were? No, it was in case they didn't remember these games that were in the castle of Monterrey, but good. The most important thing for us, of course, is to give an answer to all the Greeks, and especially to those who guarantee the future of our community, which are our young people. And for that, of course, we have developed youth policy as we understand that we must do it, which is in a participatory way. The participatory way in which the Government of Galicia, which had the previous Government, and which even was created earlier, is called the Interdepartmental Commission of Youth, the Interdepartmental Commission of Thursday, where all departments of Galicia and even the representation of the Fegamp and the Town Councils are represented, where policies should be presented, and that the two-party Government did not assemble even once. Not once in four years has the Interdepartmental Youth Commission been convened. That's what the Galician Socialist Party was concerned about youth policies. We not only called it for the first time in January 2010, we arrived recently, but we were able to present that commission, which is where it has to be presented, our youth strategies, even presenting a law that was fundamental to our youth in our community, which is Galician Youth Law, the first law, which you said four years were going to do, four years of government that did not join the commission, and that they were not even able to bring forward, I no longer say a policy – which was the politics of leisure – but only one and only a legislative framework. Now if there's the first text of the legislation that will give coverage and exclusivity to the young and young people of our community, text, by the way, made as if it had to be done, which is giving our boys and girls maximum participation. It was 1,500 boys and girls who participated actively through all the municipalities in order to be able to make a good law and that this law was as consensual as possible and in a pioneering way. How come there's no transversal policy? What do you call transversal? More than anything is to understand what you call transversal, because it's the first time it's defined twice as two youth strategies where all the councils – which is called transversal – participate, where all of them have connections and all of them develop their policies. And, in fact, the second strategy that is now in force, for the years 2014-2016, has EUR 344 million, with 240 measures, concrete measures with concrete budget, and which are obviously linked to what concerns and concerns our young people. In fact, of these 240 measures, even now we have increased them by 9 more. In 2014 we developed 249 measures, all linked to education, employment, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit, housing, health, participation and associationism, volunteering, information and training, mobility and tourism, linguistic dynamization and equality. And it's true, Mrs. Gallego, as much as she scotchs you, that here in Galicia the university fees are the lowest in all of Spain. Don't try to be wrong and much less say something that's not true. What is true is that in 2014, thanks to this strategy – which is the most important – that is the job, they were able to hire and raise 2,500 boys and girls and find a job. And, of course, youth policy, employment plans, the EUR 150 million for more than 19 measures for our boys and girls, for not repeating myself – even if you stayed yesterday eager to talk about the question of employment – I will not repeat it again. We believe in young people, we believe in their potential, we work with them, we commit ourselves to them, and that's why we're trying to improve their situation of life, through something that we also believe is important, which is to improve their curriculum through informal education, informal education where we're increasing our budget this year by 25%, up to 2.5 million euros, which will benefit this year 4,000 boys and girls. Unformal education that allows people to acquire skills, acquire values, that are absolutely essential in our community, and that right now we want them to be evaluated by the University of Santiago. That's why we signed an agreement for the University of Santiago to evaluate pioneer projects, some of them, such as the Youth Initiative and other projects, for example Galeuropa. We're talking about a commitment we have with our boys so they can have the chance, 500 of them, to practice abroad, and that's why we've increased their budget by 55%. Initiative Jupiter, a pioneering project that has been done in our community, which is not only linked to youth associations, but to informal groups that want to take forward any activity, which can sometimes be a germ in a company, where we are allocating funding for 150 projects and 700 people. Volunteer, volunteer. For the first time we have an absolutely agreed volunteering law with all parliamentary groups, which is the Youth Volunteering Act, which is our bet to increase volunteering service. And that's why there's also a youth volunteer service. And for the first time, we create the possibility of officially certifying the accreditation of this voluntary activity and even this activity linked to non-formal education, which is what we really believe we should continue to encourage, beyond formal education and beyond all policies linked to employment. Mrs. Gallego, it happened here from the leisure, from Castrelo de Mine, from the German War, to really have a policy, a policy linked directly to the needs that young people, themselves actively participating, told us it was important to take forward. And, of course, let's empty the Conjuga. We emptied the conjuga, we emptied the woman of an illustrious socialist MP, and after the wife of an illustrious socialist MP, the sister-in-law of an illustrious socialist MP. Is that what we did, Mrs. Gallego: empty? No, no, no, no. What we did was actually do a participatory instrument...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u156	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u157	...which is the Youth Advisory Council, where all youth entities are and are represented, all -- not socialist youth, not Galicia New, not New Generations -- all youth entities that have representativeness in our community, who want to be, and obviously before they have to be registered as youth entities. That's what this government does, Mrs. Gallego: depolitize everything that has to do with the tools and tools of the administration linked to youth. In conclusion, it was this government that really made a radical change in youth policies. It was this government that reactivated the Youth Interdepartmental Commission, that tool in which you seem not to believe, because in four years they haven't done anything. It was this government that first made that law that you announced and that you didn't, that is the Youth Law, that gives you complementary coverage for all activities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u158	Thank you very much, Counselor, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u159	And it was this government that evidently works with them and for them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u160	Thank you very much, Counselor. Groups that want to intervene. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u161	Counselor, you made me feel ashamed, frankly. What a pathetic answer, sadder, more no future, more denial of all reality! You live in the worlds of Yupy, I don't know where they live, so they're with Candy Crush at Congress. It's just, of course, you don't care, you live in another world, where everything is wonderful. But what are you going to say here: a wonderful plan for young people to do practices outside? Since we don't get to those who leave, we've already sent them and they've gone to practice, too, to see if there's none left, to see if there's none left. That's his policy. But then 150 projects for 700 people that can give place to one who, one...? –Yes, I don't have the exact word. I listened very carefully, so I felt so ashamed, you know? Because here it's all about autonomy; so now we've got the boys, eh!, and they're riding autonomously; that's the 4.0 industry that's going to be mounted in this country: all the autonomous, a 4.0 industry by autonomy. That's your future. And, well, the law of volunteering, wonderful. The future that's just painted to youth is that if I'm 20 years old, I get kicked out of this country, because it's condemning me to poverty, for girls and for women. Because, above all, it's sad that there's not a single policy either to match women's rights in the world of work. And those policies of yours are the ones that are leading this country to the situation in which it is, a situation of social emergency, a situation of total depopulation. I understand that what you're saying on the phone must be important, Counselor, must be very important; perhaps they're giving you the answer. Look, a Galicia with a large demographic gap, a western Galicia from Tui to Ferrol, populated –Ferrol will stay out, as follows, evidently – and an inner Galicia, totally impoverished and old, where the Senate is advancing, which will complicate the situation of this dependent population, because there will be no young people to attend, and will lead them to a population collapse of many villages and parishes in Greece and to the disappearance of habitats and landscapes centuries and millenniums. A Galicia that has to face its structural demographic decline. It's not right now, if I'm clear, it's not the People's Party's fault. The population and demographic decline in Galicia has been coming for many years, but now it is aggravated by a strong emigration of young people abroad, in a new wave that recalls classic episodes of Greek migration. Demographic change is accelerating at a very rapid rate. The aging of the population is linked to the decline in the number of inhabitants. The growth of the population between 1900 and 2014 was 32.5%, compared to 150.3% of the state's population. There have been two key dates: the 1960s, from where the number of births is stagnated, and another is the year 2010, when for the first time in the history of this country there is a general decline in population throughout the whole country, throughout Galicia. And it's managed by the economic crisis in our country. On the one hand, fewer immigrants arrive and, on the other hand, there is a great emigration of our youth. And the projections that are made are projections made by the Idega, the request of the Board itself, that is, they're not data that can be questioned. He says that if we continue to do so and do not act on policies that benefit demography, we will continue to lose population until the year 2025, to which the study arrives. Since the crisis began, 74% of Galician municipalities have lost population, 74%. Even two cities failed to maintain their population, which were Ferrol and Ourense. We're not talking anymore about what's happening inside. Between 2010 and 2030, the most regressive areas will continue to lose population, according to the same study. This negative dynamic is explained by a very low birth rate and a very high mortality rate, due to the average high age of our population. The age group where fertility is most prevalent, between 20 and 39 years of age, shows a substantial reduction in population over the last fifteen years in Galicia. This happened equally in the four provinces, and it's explained by the confluence of two phenomena: smaller generations have arrived already due to a low birth of the previous generation and the emigration of new people because they have no job prospects in Galicia. The worrying thing about demography is that all the indicators show the same thing. In Galicia, according to INE data, there are 592,600 homes – 55% – where only one or two people live. INE's report collects that in Galicia there is a drastic drop in household occupation, which has a lot to do with aging and low fertility. The average household occupants increased from 2.71 people in 2007 to 2.52 in 2014; a worrying progression, which, according to experts, will continue. Of the 259,000 single-person homes in Galicia, 121,500 are over 65 years old; basically, 70% are women over 65. In addition, public policies do not go hand in hand to change the situation. The only thing that could reverse this process would be a sustained economic growth, with active policies of accompaniment, in support of women and boys and girls who decide to have children, who do not exist today in Galicia, and the creation of stable employment and decent wages. By 2020 48.6% of Galician municipalities will have more than 32.5% of their population over 65 years. It is urgent to establish policies to reverse the process of lack of youth and excess of older people in Galicia. A lot of resources are needed, investments in low-responsible electoral matters. These are long-distance policies, with no results for one or two legislates. On the other hand, actions in the field of rural reactivation are non-existent. It doesn't work to change the structure of the property, nor does it advance in the competitiveness of agriculture or in the equalization of wages with the urban environment. Labour insecurity, poverty wages, high eventuality, lack of housing, unprotection in maternity or high unemployment rates. There's a lot to change if we don't want Galicia to end up becoming a human desert. And as a result of these cutting policies that are paying the peasant working class since 2010, Galicia shows a great social mobilization. In Galicia there were 2,977 mobilizations in 2014; in particular, in Vigo, for example, 675, two protests a day practically. And, of course, the response from the People's Party came, which was not to meet the demands of the people, but to impose sanctions. 48 sanctions imposed in Galicia in demonstrations, in the state as a whole were 542. In the state as a whole each penalty had an average cost of 463 euros; in Galicia, of 619 euros – we paid the most expensive infringements –. It was the fourth most sanctioned community in 2014, behind Andalusia, Navarra and Castile-A Mancha. But between January 1, 2012 and September 30, 2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u162	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u163	...–I finished – the Ministry of the Interior collected EUR 35,100 for 110 files. So I think it's important to put sovereignty aside, look at the country problem, sit down and talk clearly about the problem that we have of lack of youth, emigration of youth and desertification in our country. So, Counsellor, less fine, less science fiction, less coercion, less repression, less envelopes and more social policies, more active employment policies and more and better formal training, fair labour policies and quality social services. We know, moreover, that it leads to non-formal training – I live directly in the world of health – to the free exploitation of youth as a labor force that does not charge. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u165	Good morning, Mrs. Mato. The result of your youth policies as it jumps to the eye, right?: less employment, less education, less public education, less research, less Greek, less culture, less associationism, less transport... that's the balance so big, right?: less policies for youth, policies directed at associationism and youth issues. In what he has put a great deal of effort into eliminating successful initiatives. We could talk about the Night Bus, the rehearsal sites, the Love Centers, more support for Mother Networks and less support for the Love Centers. There's no housing policy. They condemn young people to immigration and then they remove their health benefits, they withdraw their health cards when they've been outside the Spanish state for three months without charge. Cuts in teaching. They sacrificed the right to a quality and free education at the altar of deficit control. Almost half the boys and girls in Galicia are unemployed, Mrs. Mato. 47.8% of Galician girls under 35 are unemployed. That should make you think, that should make you come here and recognize the failure in which you correspond – which is a lot – in the matter of youth. When half of our country's population is unemployed, the unemployment rate doesn't reach 33% should make you come here with a little more modesty, at least a little more. Look, during the year 2014 the decline in people's activity between 20 and 24 years of age or 7,700 people, who between 25 and 30 years of age or 9,500 people less, than between 30 and 34 years of age or 7,900 people less, should make you come here with a little more modesty and recognizing that something shouldn't be doing well, that something shouldn't be doing well, that you shouldn't be pushing the necessary measures so that the situation of our country's youth can at least throw some data that aren't these tremendouss, right? Because look, the situation of the young Galician youth in the BNG we call it dramatic, dramatic -- a youth that you for all options offer geographical mobility, suitcase and precariousness, which have subjected it to a pure and hard labor slavery. Then they come here trying to convince us of the mantra that the solution is entrepreneurship, right? They intend to install the speech that we are facing an individual problem, that everyone or that person, that boy or girl who has initiative, who has boldness, can achieve a future by becoming an entrepreneur. And we've already told you on another occasion that we're not going into that game, because the problem of unemployment among young people and girls in our country isn't about being brave, bold, individually unwilling to start. The problem of unemployment among young people and girls in Galicia is the result of the policies that the People's Party is taking, has led and seems to be that it intends to continue to carry out, which is dismantling of the productive sectors, dismantling of the Greek financial system, dismantling of public services, massive theft of wages, as a result of which they are deserting the exercise of the Government of Galicia, with which they are condemning young people and young people, thousands of young people and young women from Greece, to have no future, with which they are condemning Galicia to have no future. And then they also intend to divert attention from lack of preparation, and you come here, as you came yesterday, to talk about unregulated training plans. They dismantle regular education, making it impossible for working-class children and children to have access to higher education. They put more and more locks on them, it's more and more expensive, and it turns out that after they want to replace the subject, they fix it for unregulated preparation. Look, they're tearing down the country, they're undermining the ability to create jobs in Galicia with those measures that you're carrying out, that you're sending from the Government of Madrid or from the European Union, and that they're running enthusiastically and they're making no job in Galicia. And then they intend to come here with some kind of measure that's not like that. Because look, the measures you've put in place aren't meant to create jobs between youth, they don't mean that young people and girls in our country have a chance to live and work decently on our land. The measures that have set in motion the only goal they have is to create a reserve army, a real army that accepts any working conditions, at any price, in any situation. And in that reserve army, the Galician youth are using infantry, they are using infantry, Mrs. Mato, being the infantry for that labor market that's out there, that you're creating and they're making them accept working conditions of poverty; they're making them accept training conditions that soon they don't generate any kind of right, that they don't have a right to unemployment, which means they're not going to have practically pensions or they're going to be poor pensions. Those are the conditions of the labour market that you are creating for youth, for the young people and girls of our country. Look, almost half the job destruction that took place in Galicia in the last five years is for young people under the age of 30. The vast majority of jobs that are destroyed in Galicia – which is much – correspond to those under 30 years of age. And all we see is how young and young people leave, those who don't take up these working conditions, they only leave emigration as their only way out. Because in Galicia unemployment is low, but you don't create a job, and you know it perfectly well, Mrs. Mato. And then we also have to watch the way this Parliament comes and then it propagates a demographic plan for the demographic recovery of Galicia, when you know that the problem of demographic recovery has to come from the hand of job creation and the hand of creating conditions that allow people to settle in the territory. And look, data weighs a lot more than rhetoric, a lot more than rhetoric, and data shows a loss of new population in chilling Galicia. I know you know the data, but as when you come here, it turns out that you're trying to paint them and put the blame on the stake, you're trying to blame the stones instead of assuming your responsibility, look, in the last five years, the number of people under 35 years of age living in Galicia has fallen to 115,000 people – 115,000 people in five years –. Do you think that is not the result of your policies? And after all this you say, one day and another, that in Galicia it's not true that there's emigration of young people, they keep saying that it's not true that there's emigration. These 115,000 people who deminuate what is due?: What do people like to go to other places?, do they like to have careers, masters – with the sacrifice that I made for families – and they like to go to work as waitresses in London? Do you believe that our youth, after making an effort to form, means spending, public investment in that training, sacrifice of families, who then want to take the suitcase to go work as waiters to London, Germany, Switzerland? That after that they like to work here in our country on conditions where they earn wages of misery? And you don't have any responsibility to those policies that lead to these things?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u166	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u167	Look, the most dramatic descent is that it occurs in rural areas, but it also occurs in all urban areas of our country. Mrs. Mato, in the last five years 115,000 people under 35 leave our country and throughout the country. From rural areas, because there are no services, because you dismantle all kinds of services and don't trigger others because they don't give them opportunities. But also from urban areas, also from those areas that theoretically would have to be dynamic. And this is the balance that you can present on the subject of youth. The balance sheet as I've already told you before: it's less employment, less possibilities, less housing policy, less policies in all sectors. So the question is, do you at some point plan to do something so that Galician girls and girls have a chance to live and work decently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u169	...here on our land, Mrs. Mato? That's the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u170	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u171	Thank you, President. The polls sent, Mrs. Mato, a message to neoliberal policies last Sunday, a message that shares most of the girls and boys in this country and of the whole state, who are victims of anti-personnel policies that have practiced successive governments, policies that have expelled 139,000 human beings since the arrival of Mr. Feijóo's government until the end of 2013, according to IGE's own data. People go because – as has already been said here – they have no future in this country. It's because the unemployment policies of this government condemn youth to unemployment and, in most cases, to find work, to work precariously. There's a lot of data given here, we have a few more. Almost 3 out of 4 jobs destroyed since the beginning of the crisis were jobs of girls and boys, 214,000 jobs less in youth. 214,000, it's a barbarity! But it's just that, in addition, you destroyed your youth jobs, but you also facilitated job insecurity at a time when even now you're a millionaire, something you talked about years ago, is almost an intellect for our youth. In Galicia long-term unemployment means half the boys and girls, that is, half all the girls and girls who are now unemployed and unemployed sleep long-term, half, i.e., they are young and girls and are already at these long-term unemployed and unemployed. And the government is allowed to assume a supposed reduction in unemployment; what they don't say, what they don't want to tell, of course, is that it obviously reduces because it continues to reduce the active population. Galicia is the most job-making community that destroys, and there are fewer people at work because they have to continue to emigrate or because they've been looking for so long that they no longer have the hope of finding work. We have a drama, not only in total numbers of emigrants and emigrations, but in the last quarter of 2014 there were 21,100 girls and boys, which is a very serious, very high figure; in three months, 21,100 girls and boys less in our country because of their policies. When they are left – as I said – they are meat of temporary and precarious jobs. 94 % of contracts made for girls and boys under 30 years of age are temporary contracts. And the average salary of youth is in Galicia the third lowest of the state's youth. What recovery are they talking about? What politics were you talking about, Mrs Mato? Of course, there's no recovery for the working youth. The purchasing capacity of young and young gales is, according to official data, much less than the average state, and this makes, as in previous years, young gales and girls have serious difficulties in independence, something that in many cases is science fiction. Because many and many, as their lords already know, had to return to their family home for the impossibility of remaining alone and alone. The rate of emancipation is in people under 30 years of age in Galicia, only 7.8%, and most of those who manage to leave, and those who manage to leave, of course, of course, cannot afford to live alone or alone, but to share housing. The rent represents almost half the average wages of the young people and girls in this country, according to the statistics; that is, they would have to spend half their wages in order to pay a living. Our youth lives in absolute precaution, it seems that you do not care too much, but without any possibility, therefore, to be emancipated, exploited and exploited at work, and expelled, in addition, to exile, as it has already been defined here. For them and for them, the management solutions are more exploitation, as we have reported in dozens of times in this House, concerning the dual FP itself, with contracts, minijobs, which facilitate that labour exploitation, wages between 290 and 400 euros for doing jobs that would be covered with normal wages within the agreements by workers and workers. Labour exploitation supported by its legislation. And there's no right, we're sick of it. More precarious is the one they also announce with that juvenile guarantee, the alms of a system that is continually driving us out, Mrs. Mato. Our youth no longer wants alms, wants decent work on their land, and the possibility of studying without that means mortgageting their future or the lives of their parents and mothers. Young people do not want to continue to go into forced exile, which also weakens our social protection systems, because obviously they and they are not being able to contribute to support that social security. We are, of course, in addition to this PSdEG interpellation, because this situation is already unsustainable. A situation that must also be added to the health apartheid of many and many young people. We have already denounced it at its own time in the Committee on Health and in this House, many and many have had to resort to that charity card of the Galician Health Service, after the adoption of the – it should be called "criminal" – Royal Decree 16/2012, but also, in addition, now, the posteriori, starting in 2014, with that withdrawal of the health benefit for those and those who are tried to spend more than three months abroad looking for life outside their country. Above all, you, your party, your government punish us. They're turning youth into real pariahs in many cases. That's why they may continue to make it difficult for them to exercise their right to vote, because they don't even want to listen to them, as the grenade tide has reported in recent beginnings. On the one hand, because of this 2010 electoral reform that makes it difficult by the census that our youth can vote, and that they voted in favour of the big parties. But it's just that, in addition, in these municipalities, there have been multiple loopholes reported even to register as non-residents and exercise the right to vote. Still above sending them and sending them to exile, you deny them the possibility of participating in their future. In short, ladies and gentlemen, let's join the plea because our youth refuses to assume that it has no future. Those who should not have a future are you and those who practice the policies that led us to this situation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Group, Mr. Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u173	Thank you, President. Good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the possibility of discussing its youth initiative, because it is something that we are interested in, and much, but I really did not hear a single proposal, and not just in its ten minutes of presentation, but in the other 40 minutes of the other opposition groups; regrettable, really. Yes, I knew a new concept, which was the concept of anti-personnel politics. I haven't been able to locate any examples of anti-personnel politics in Galicia, but if I was led by two situations: first, the struggle continues that it has youth in Venezuela against the authoritarian regime of Chavism and Nicolás Maduro. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Many of them are repressed and many others are murdered. [[Murmurs.]] That's anti-person politics. And then, Mrs. Solla, I came to my head with an image, which is Mr. Francisco Frutos' image on May 24, sitting alone, analyzing the election results below. [[Applause]] Those are the two anti-personnel images that I've been able to reflect on in the last thirty seconds. Now, what I've been able to reflect on, and well, are the last six years of the Government of Galician Union and the profound transformation of youth policy that we've had all this time. It was a brave transformation. And I say it's a brave transformation because it was able to end with a stage where there was a Youth Directorate focused on leisure and leisure by a Youth General Directorate focused on what was most concerned about youth, which was unemployment. This Unity of Galicia found in 2009 an autonomous community where the young people emigrated most, which was in particular in 2008; that was the year when the younger had to leave Galicia. He found a Galician union and found an autonomous community where unemployment rose month after month. We've been down unemployment for 18 consecutive months now. That was the situation, and now I'm going to report what was the transformation into measures: Well, first, equip the youth with a legal framework. A fundamental legal framework, which you were unable to bring forward in the four years that the Government of Galicia, the Youth Act, had. I don't know what you're laughing at here. The Youth Act is a legal framework that blinds young people's rights, not only in matters of leisure and leisure, in which I'm not going to say anything, because of course you are specialists, but also in employment, in housing, in entrepreneurship, in other matters, which is what really concerns young people, it's not about leisure and leisure. Also a Law of voluntary action, yes, the Law of voluntary action, which so well caused laughter. A law of voluntary action which, for example, allows young people committed to society to have a recognition and to have an expedition of their voluntary experience and can also, of course, add it to their vitae curriculum so that they can count on greater employability. A strategic plan, no pardon, no no, two, two strategic plans, different, with more than three hundred concrete measures that were directed specifically to Galician youth, to the launch of the Interdepartmental Commission, of course. When we talk about the importance of transversality in the question of youth, that also has to be reflected in the management of government. And the Government, when making decisions on youth, not only takes them from the Youth Directorate General, takes them with the whole Government gathered, given that youth is implicated in Fishing, youth is implicated in the Rural Environment, youth is implicated in Infrastructure, and so on in every one of these government councils. It's important that everyone take action, not just the general direction. An interdepartmental commission that was, by the way, shut down, shut down for years. Why? Because one part of the two-party government was unable to meet with another, because every time they met they ended badly. So now, fortunately, there is a structured government that counts as an obsession, – it would say priority, but even more – the obsession of ending the high rate of youth unemployment that was found in 2009. And for that, there are concrete measures like the one I'm developing here. In 2014, the last time we had to discuss youth, I was teaching you a chart, I don't know if you remember, it was this graph. This graph is the chart of the evolution of youth unemployment in 2014, in which Galicia, curiously, is the autonomous community where unemployment decreases the most. This is Galicia, and you know that this is in pink here, that is Andalusia, the community that you rule and set as a model. I don't know exactly, Mrs. Gallego, where you want to be, where you prefer to be, whether in the only autonomous community where youth unemployment grows or in the autonomous community of Galicia, which is where youth unemployment falls the most. Specifically, in 2014 more than one in five who was in unemployment the previous year was no longer I, sincerely I prefer to be in Galicia, I prefer to be in Galicia and I prefer to have a government that takes steps to really lead the downsizing of youth employment. That's what I prefer. [[Applause]] I repeat: it is not – and I would like to stress this – an idyllic situation that we are living in Galicia with regard to unemployment, or, of course, youth unemployment. Of course not, there's a lot to work and there's a lot to do. There are still many people who are suffering the consequences of the economic crisis. But it's also true that we're in the right direction, and the data there reflects it. [[Murmurs.]] Even though you haven't given a single idea to the lady advisor to develop in the Youth General Directorate or in her advisor's office, I would like to say that in view of a strategic youth employment plan with more than 100 million euros, in a city like Vigo you had an budget of 500,000 euros for youth unemployment in 2014. They've sent 30,000. Yes, yes, Mr. Gallego, although it hurts, yes, 30,000 euros... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u174	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u175	...of 500,000 they had budgeted. That's not even 7% of the budget, Mrs. Gallego. With what face do you come to tell the Counsellor, who put in place the Youth Employment Plan, who put in place the Strategic Youth Plan, who carried out and approved the Youth Act, the Voluntary Action Law, and now you, who are unable to execute 7% of the budget where they govern, come here asking what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u176	Mr. Gallego, a call to order, will you? Please do it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u177	...What's he asking for, Mr. Gallego? I think it's irresponsible. It's irresponsible. You represent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u178	A call to order has Mr. Gallego, excuse me. Mr. Gallego! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A call to order. [[Murmurs.]] I hope you don't have the second one. Please listen, it's not up to you to talk. It's not up to him to talk. Continue, Mr. Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u179	I was saying to represent the party that it is unable to execute 7% of the youth employment budget and represent the party that governs the Autonomous Community, the only one where youth unemployment grows in Spain, I think it is not the model that must adopt the Galician Union. Of course, I don't think it's the model. And I repeat: it's not an idyllic situation, because it's not a good situation, and we have to keep working on a lot of people who still don't have the opportunity they deserve, but, of course, all the measures I've just reported here, they all go towards that common goal, towards that obsession that the Galician Union has, which is to end with the high rate of youth unemployment. Although – I think, because I thought this was going to be a debate of ideas – there is not a single idea on the table by the opposition, only a torture analysis of certain statistics that I used discreetly to attack the Council of Galicia, but not a single idea on the table, as I said before. There are other problems that, of course, care about youth and help us find jobs. He spoke of informal education – and rightly so – as counsellor. Formal education is not something that replaces formal education, nor regular education, it would just be lacking, but it is something that helps to improve the employability of youth. In order for a young person to have a job, there are also two important circumstances: one goes with education, quality education; another goes with a legal framework and with rules and political circumstances that allow companies to create jobs, because it's not the Union that creates jobs. And for this to happen, we have to help companies and we have to provide companies with confidence, a political framework that gives companies confidence. And today that exists. And we also have to help bring forth the talent that Galician youth has. That's why there are programs like Youth Initiative, which help to get that creativity out of youth through projects; projects that can evaluate their viability to create later jobs and become companies, companies that are job creation engines, companies that are opportunities engines and rich motors for Galicia. That's what we care about this political party. But above all this I've just talked about, above all this is nothing. There seems to be no opinion of the opposition, and to me personally it's something that worries me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u180	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u181	And finally, there were some contributions here by other parliamentary groups, such as the Galician Nationalist Block. I really recognize the same torturing interpretation of statistics, but I end up with a conclusion that's the following: you're pissed off all day, you don't have one initiative. We thought, indeed, from good faith, that their problem had been only that Beiras had been BNG; and now we realize that this is not the problem, we realize that the problem with BNG is a project problem, a problem that they have nothing to contribute to the youth policy that this country has. And that was a BNG lord who directed the youth policy, and so we did, during the bipartite. But not a single proposal either. [[Murmurs.]] I really... I encourage you, Mrs Gallego, to have a second round of answers, which you really give us a proposal that we can debate, a proposal that we can consider. Something that can feed and contribute to the fact that this country's youth can have better living conditions than it had when you ruled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u182	Thank you very much. Replica round for Mrs Gallego Calvar of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm so proud to forgive you, even if it seems good to follow you with pride, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Counsellor. That's one of the biggest mistakes they've made, and it's one of the ones that caused you to take the electoral stick that they've taken on Sunday, but keep it that way. What I do not forgive, Counselor, is that you, who represent the Government of Galicia in this debate, are rooted in bad education today. [[Murmurs.]] That certainly does not forgive me or my group, Counselor, because you, acting as you have behaved today in your response to this interpellation, what you do is to put the Government of Galicia in the wrong place. And the Government of Galicia, though I did not vote for it, is also my Government, Counselor. Look, what the official labour market figures say is that the youth unemployment rate since you've been a labour adviser has increased by 60% and that the employment rate has decreased by 30%. These are the official figures of the active population survey, advisor, as much as you want to disguise them. And what they also say is that the degree of social protection for unemployment in our youth is about 15%, i.e. only 9,000 boys and girls with benefits in front of more than 56,000 without it. That's what the official figures say, Counselor. And I'm talking to you here about three problems that young people in Greece have: the job, better said, the lack of it, access to education and housing, and therefore what they're doing, which is leaving our country, 40 girls and boys every day, 13,000 boys and girls a year. You weren't able to beat up here any of the data we gave in our interpellation, counselor, not one. And the data we have given in the interpellation are perfectly contrasted with their budgets. Because look, Counselor, since you've ruled in youth policy the budgets of the Galician Union have fallen by 35 percent and in employment policies by 56 percent. Obviously, you can't do more with less, less, less, counsellor. And with regard to the programs of those you come here to presume, because you have not been able to talk about housing, access to education, or, of course, demographics, or people who leave to emigration, or any return program, your programs of which you claim to design your future and Youth Initiative... but, Counsellor, what do you assume?, of programs equipped with 85,000 euros for the April call or with 45,000 euros? or another 550,000 euros? Is that the youth policy of the Government of Galicia? Are these the examples of youth policy? Advertising and propaganda, Counselor. Look, if you want to do something for youth, you approve some of the many initiatives that the Socialist Group has put forward, in the debates of the state of autonomy, in the budgetary debates and in various initiatives of impulse that we have always brought here and which they have always rejected. Even yesterday, Mrs. Quintas, in the debate of the motion as a result of the appeal, presented a return program for emigration. And what have you done, gentlemen of the People's Party? They voted against it. Of course, you don't want to talk about it. He doesn't want to talk either, Counsellor, about what his Governor General of Youth has already resigned to presenting himself to the elections, about what he did was hire positions from the People's Party, about which you couldn't deny that he hired #2 from the Teo People's Party to carry out that Youth Initiative program, which he doesn't want to talk about. You're negotiating without publicity, hiring the People's Party charges through the Youth Director General. But there's not only that in that Youth General Directorate, Counselor. I used to say this before: summer camps are always assisted by the same companies. And look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u184	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u185	...very bad things must go to you, because your own people are already going to us to denounce situations. He says, "Hello. Sorry to keep me anonymous. I know the subject well because I lived it in the first person. If you look into Antonio Reyes' personal blogs, it's his personal promotion linked to this activity. Ovidio's wife's uncle, former director of Thursday, is Teo's PP number one, and he put Antonio there because they're always friends. With this activity he put in front of Antonio Reyes and this one collected these amounts every year at least because he was a friend of Ovidio, for there was no contest or tender. Antonio was charged as director-coordinator of the activity. Another place where you should look well is at the Fesan Foundation, created by Ovidio to put money from Europe for training and entrepreneurship. Fesan's is a scandal that everyone knows and nobody publishes anything. We also have to look at the whole pattern of associations created by youth technicians in municipalities, and Ovidio's friends and the director of Youth House to give free travel funded by the European Union to friends of the party and related people."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u187	That's the policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Time's up. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mrs. Gallego. [[Applause]] You have the floor to close the debate with the work and well-being advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u189	Every day you really have the ability to surprise me even more, it's getting over day by day, Your Honor. What I can assure you is that you lessons to me from education I already tell you that you won't give me any. I'm trying to figure out what I could say at some point, and what I did, I think, was to take your colors out. If that's what you're talking about, it's bad education, because, of course, it's your problem. What do I know? [[Applause]] And I'm not surprised if I take out your colors, Your Honor, because if your policy and the way you control the Government is always going to be through anonymous communiqués of saying they say they say, because, of course, you see the rigour that socialist policies have. But I see that for the Socialist Party all its candidates cannot come from the business world. You know that the Socialist Party is going to have people who don't know he lives as conciliators and as candidates for conciliators because they can't come from the business world, that's his claim. Focusing on the issue, which is most important, which is about youth, which is about youth, of course, this party and this government defend that the best social policy is employment. We used to talk about a job interview yesterday, and that's what we're worried about -- as I said -- and we're also busy. The development of our policies is precisely focused on a priority collective that is youth, and the result of those policies that gave rise to, for example, two plans for youth, the first in history, even the two-party government, a employment plan, resulted in a decrease in the unemployment rate in our youth in 2014 by 21.5%. And we have to talk from the beginning to see if we at least try to talk the same way. The active population survey, do you believe? I mean. And the IGE, do you think? [[Murmurs.]] Good. From what we all believe that the survey of active population says a reality and that the IGE also says a reality, I say, do you know that the survey of active population what it says is that the unemployment rate of young people under 25 years of age has been reduced this past year four points? Do you know that besides saying that the youth unemployment rate is six points below Spain's unemployment rate? Starting from that the IGE – let's think that we all believe what the active population survey says – starting with the IGE, is 13,000 more than 12,000? Yes, 13,000 is more than 12,000. Well, 13,000 were the boys who emigrated in 2007, 12,000 were the boys who emigrated in 2013, which are the latest data; that is, he emigrated more youth in the years precisely where you were in government. [[Murmurs.]] More than anything I'm saying than knowing whether we speak not only the same language, but not the truth. Focusing on youth policy, what I can say is that this government did the first transversal policy for our boys. Obviously, speaking of the most important, which is employment, but also speaking of other things that concern them as well, as housing, as is training, as is voluntary, as is unregulated training, and as are the different themes that develop through our strategies. And we did it through the reactivation of the Interdepartmental Commission, that which you didn't know or exist, that which you've never joined together, that which you've never joined to hear from the other departments of the Council of Galicia or even to see the municipalities. The only policy they heard about our youth was that of the Socialist Youth, and obviously that's not going to be the case. And it was this community that made the first normative framework for youth with a Youth Law; the first one that made two strategies linked directly to young people, with 1,500 young people who had the opportunity to participate actively in it, which commits 344 million euros in 240 measures. And, of course, we boost employment – as I did yesterday – through 150 million euros in policies that are linked to their preparation, improvement, qualification and also employment. And, of course, the strong bet on which we firmly believe that education is untrained through the youth volunteer service, through the service too... is also the first time we have made the official certification of volunteer service and even non-formal education. We were the first community in Spain to have voluntary certificates, the first community in Spain to have non-formal education certificates, the first community to encourage informal groups, the first community in Spain that offers more summer camp pitches; summer camp pitches that have virtually disappeared in all the autonomous communities and that in this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u190	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u191	...government continues to bet and we will continue to bet, Mrs. Gallego,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u193	... however much he feels for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u194	We suspended the session until this afternoon at sixteen hours and thirty minutes, four and a half minutes. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at 2:30 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, from G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, on the project of royal decree so that the general characteristics of the final evaluation tests of Primary Education, Compulsory Secondary Education and Bachelorate, known as the "real decree of revalids" are regulated
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u195	To formulate this plea, Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u196	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, good afternoon. Last April, the Government of the State presented to the State School Council the project of royal decree regulating the final assessment of primary education, compulsory secondary education and more of Bacharelato, which is also known as the "Decree of Revalids". The objective of this royal decree project is only to establish the regulation of the general characteristics of the final evaluation tests of Primary Education, Compulsory Secondary and other Bachelorate. Once again, it returns to the revals of frankism, under common criteria and evaluative characteristics throughout the territory of the State, which seek to uniformize all of us. We are faced with the development and application of LOMCE regarding the establishment of calendars and implementation of the individualized final evaluations of Primary, sixth, and more known as "secondary validations" in the room of the ESO and in the second of Bacharelate. Once again, the vast majority of the educational community in Galicia – we can tell ANPA, teacher, student, trade unions, platforms that defend public education – is concerned and alarmed at the development of LOMCE, that law that we have so many times said from this stage that it has already been born dead by the social challenge of most of the educational community in Greece; the education community in Greece that even today morning has rejected in a clear and rotting manner the evaluation that is intended to be made today and more tomorrow in the third primary, demonstration even in front of the Council. Manifestation made by the educational community on several occasions against – it has repeated it for the last time – of a harmful law for public education, a law that prevents the right to education of all students, which increases privatization and marketing of education, clears the equality of opportunity, eliminates the democratic management of the centres, strengthens the confessionality of public education, promotes the segregation of the student and re-integrates the famous revals of frankism – the words of the Galega Platform for Defence of Public Education by criticizing the Education Council by submitting the mandates of the Ministry of Education, by heeding without requiring the completion of the tests provided for third and sixth primaryity, which are the anterior requirement of the famous revals that are presented as requirements for secondary and grading titles; revampling, I say, in the room of ESO and second LAC, which are essential for obtaining the education level – to obtain the education level. It's about putting on new obstacles, in the ESO room and in the second LAC, after the studies. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the objective is to exclude the most disadvantaged socially from the right to education. Even the Galician School Council, last week, also called for the withdrawal of the famous curriculum decree, and one of the arguments it used for its claim, to claim this withdrawal, is that once again the famous revals of franchiseism, revals which involve pedagogic aberration and which will subject the student to standardized tests to uniform education systems under neoliberal and recentralizing parameters, and exclude the disadvantaged from access, let's say, to higher education, that's the goal. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has repeatedly spoken against LOMCE; firstly, because it invades competences in the area of education in Galicia, it introduces legislative changes that seriously damage the quality of public education in Galicia. We manifested ourselves on more than one occasion openly against LOMCE because it means re-centralizing educational competences when setting curricula, but also when designing revals. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG opposed the approval of LOMCE to understand, among other things, that the revolutions aim to promote a totally classy and elitist education system that aims, no less or less, to exclude the socially disadvantaged student from the right he attends to a quality education. For the Parliamentary Group of the BNG – we say several times – the revalids are one of the most harmful elements of LOMCE; firstly, because it invades the competences of the Union by centralizing the elaboration and content of these revalids, with which the study of our culture, our history, our geography and the economy of Galicia will be out of the picture. The Ministry prepares the evidence, the Ministry itself translates into German, the Union accepts and executes the dictation sent to it by the Ministry. Secondly, we also oppose because, in order to obtain the qualification of ESO or Bacharelate, it is essential to overcome these tests, one more work for the possibility of continuing studies for a large part of the student, a new social discrimination for the student with special educational needs. Where, ladies and gentlemen, is the principle of equal opportunities for compulsory basic study? Where are the media, resources for attention to diversity? Where is the right of all Greeks and Greeks to higher education? We also oppose the revalid because it means contempt for our teachers and their professionalism, given the loss of value of evaluation continues to be fundamental to the student's evaluation and evolution. From now on, the priority will be to override the revalids to get the titles. The continuous evaluation will be set aside and the educational and pedagogical work will depend on overcoming these famous revals. For the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, the LOMCE, or "Lei Wert", it only intends to privatize, mercantilize, recentralize the educational system, of course discarding the multi-national, multicultural and multilingual conformation of the Spanish State, and even betting for the primacy of ignorance, the ignorance of our own language; for being a distinct language from Spanish, I understand. For the Parliamentary Group of the BNG – I repeat – the draft royal decree of revalids deepens in this recentralisation and is particularly harmful to the public education of the Greek, especially harmful to the student with special educational needs. They were other autonomous communities, not the Galician, who defended their own competences in education in response to this decree. Others were the communities that opposed the approval of LOMCE, and other communities that raised anti-constitutional resources before LOMCE for invading their educational competences. Other autonomous communities have even reached agreements with the ministry itself to respect the language of their community, to respect the organization of education by them in that autonomous community. These communities also opposed the project of royal decree of the revalids, but it was not only the communities outside of Greece, but also the vast majority of the education community in Greece, which was manifested today in front of the Council of Education. It was protesting by the preamble of the revals, which is the famous proof of evaluation in the third grade of Primary, and they were demanding this withdrawal and at the same time the withdrawal of LOMCE itself for being totally harmful to the educational interests of our community, for the interests of quality education in Galicia. For all this that we have formulated, which I have just made, we have presented an interpellation in which we ask that if you answer a number of questions from the Counsellor: if you consider the Counsellor and the Education Council that the revamps contemplated in this draft royal decree respect the own competences that Galicia has in the field of education, also if you would advise you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u197	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u198	... –it has finished – considers that the implementation of these revalids implies a recentralization which is inadmissible from the point of view of the education competences of the Government of Greece, if the Council has thought to reconsider its position of defending Galicia's own educational competences in the face of the invasion of competences which LOMCE is imposing on the Greek educational system, and if the Greek Government has thought to demand the withdrawal of the project of real decree so that the final evaluation tests are regulated in Primary, Secondary and Bachelorship, or if, on the contrary, it will continue the closed council and change before LOMCE, in front of Wert Law, a law that has been born, from its very beginning, dead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u199	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u200	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, these days we have often heard the opposition representatives talk about this process that we have today, about the individualized evaluation process for primary third-party students. But the truth is that you use another name, and the truth is that we heard it yesterday, we also heard it last week in commission, talking about blackmail, talking about calls to civil disobedience, talking about insubmission, talking about coercion, talking about transmitting information is propaganda, even hearing that the children were crying before the tests, who were stressed, who were not taking into account the characteristics of the student with special educational needs, or who was going to be segregated, discriminated or expelled from the educational system children with less abilities, the most disadvantaged, when it's fair to the contrary. I mean, alarm, demagogy, politicization and ideological visions about a legal framework in force. Today – and I want to be very clear – is making the first test of the third primary evaluation, and I would like to be very clear, because maybe we understand better: this is not a revalid, as much as you insist on trying to give it a pesorative character, we're not talking about any revalid. So I'd ask them to be responsible and not try to confuse citizens and not try to generate alarms. And in this sense, I appeal to you, in this sense, to stop using education, to stop using families, to make politics. I would ask them, with all due respect, after what we heard yesterday, and which we presumably heard today, to stop politicalizing with the children of others. [[Applause]] Because, look, your political line in this matter is always the same, it's always the same, we know it. First they criticize everything absolutely. All projects, running programs, are fiercely criticized. Later, when they are working, you not only criticize but ask for more – plurilingualism, Abalar, program contracts, etc. –. And we're seeing how they're criticising absolutely all the approaches that are being made in this matter. And I would ask them – that we are playing a lot on this subject – not to confuse the legitimate political differences, that we have, and it's good that we have them, with a constant strategy of boycott and confrontation. Because look, it's not the slightest doubt that you're clearly politicizing third-party evaluations. First, they're calling boycott, active and passive. Second, they criticize one thing and the opposite: first they say they don't send information to families; and when they send information to families, we advertise. Repeat over and over again arguments and political slogans without any kind of academic or pedagogical foundation. They attack – and here is perhaps one of the most important keys to the weakness of their speech – these proofs of third-party evaluation, but curiously at no time they attacked the process of evaluation and diagnosis, which is virtually identical, that was done in primary room. They didn't say anything at all. I think the differences have already been explained, they're practically null. There's a fundamental difference: that we move forward for a year, with which we can first have information to correct what needs to be corrected, that we are doing it to say that a favor to the education system. They don't criticise, too curiously, some autonomous communities where the children of third parties are not made, you talk to the children of second time. I guess the second ones won't be stressed, and maybe the third ones will be stressed. In any case, in this matter, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has been very transparent, has constantly provided information. He published, and I myself participated in a press conference, gave information to the centers through the inspection services, and even sent specific and concrete information to launch a message of tranquility. It's not because the evidence leads to unease, it's because someone's given a lot of responsibility to try to generate that unease, which has been sent that note to the staff. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, as it cannot be otherwise, is responsible. And since he's responsible he has to meet a basic standard that exists, and he has to develop the rules within his competence framework. And, obviously, we've come to work day by day to improve the quality of the education system. And to improve the quality of the education system, it's important to have information about how the education system is. So that's what this evaluation is for, it's a great formula for having system information and being able to correct those weaknesses that are detected in the system. And, if you think of primary third, it's to be able to do it first without any kind of problem. By the way, it's not unusual, I don't know if you understand that these processes of assessment of competences, not of subjects, of competences in linguistics or mathematics at these ages, with the importance you have to structure the capacity of reasoning, of expression, of understanding of the student, I don't know, Mr. Pombo, if you also interpret that there are franchisees that are made in Germany or in the Nordic countries, which are very, very similar. I would like to make it clear, if I could, if I also understand that these tests, which are practically identical, at the same ages and with the same purpose in other countries of our environment, are, as you say, evidence of the past. Because, let's not get confused, and don't try to confuse society, today we're doing what are the third primary evaluations, which are regulated in LOMCE, which are covered by the Greek decree regulating the primary curriculum and which are in a Council resolution. And another thing that's quite different is what you bring here, trying to mix everything, the sixth primary, the fourth ESO and the second Bacharelate, which is still in the process of debate, as you well know. And it must be said that today's first day of testing was celebrated quite normally. Why? Because what you're doing is being responsible. This board launched an assessment made by the Bipartite, with a big difference: instead of being in a room, it's now in third place, it's a big difference; just like the difference from not giving information to students and families, which is now going to be done. But I'd say that there's quite a normality in the system and that, in the end, I think society, countries and families are far more responsible than you want them to be. I'm going to give you some interim data, because we're still in the process -- i.e., the process started today and is going to end tomorrow -- but I can tell you that about 95% of the centers the evaluation process was done completely normal. I think it's a very significant data: 95% of the centers. And with regard to the student – who right now has the data provided by Educational Inspection – we have about 80% of primary students and third-party students have done the tests, with which I mean that we don't comply, we don't agree that about 20% of students and families have lost an opportunity to have information complementary to the continuing evaluation so that they can know, from the earliest moments of the education process, as is the educational process of each of their children. I think we should continue to insist that this small percentage, a percentage of about 20% of the students, who haven't done the test today – and we make a call – are incorporated tomorrow, because they're going to miss an opportunity to have valuable supplementary information, complementary to the educational process of their children. I think that's what's most important, because most families, most of the students, once the tests are finished, will have personal and private information, and they'll have information that will allow the schools and the educational system to implement guidance measures to know what competences it's necessary to encourage or intervene to improve, mainly in the main areas of educational knowledge, in the initial areas, linguistic understanding and mathematical understanding. And I think that finally having that information will allow the educational community to have the capacity to implement specific plans for improving their learning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u201	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u202	So, in the face of the confusions involved, in the face of those interested messages that have been launched, in the face of attempts to remove legitimacy from this process, I think society is very responsible, families are very responsible, and the vast majority of families understand that this is positive. In any case, I make a call back to responsibility from here. It's a methodological tool for having additional information, complementary to the continuous evaluation, about the student's evolution. And, I insist, I would ask them to stop in their campaigns, boycott campaigns and desisty, to proof that it will only benefit children and children. Not doing so will harm those children who haven't done it, and especially those children who have learning difficulties, because we'll have a less tool to assess and be able to have complementary material to solve these problems. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u203	Thank you, Counselor. Round of groups to fix their position. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counselor, it makes me very funny when you tell the opposition you come here to politicize. It's just that it really seems to me like something incredible, because, besides, it seems like saying a law against most of the educational community and of all society, it's not politicizing anything. Here it seems that it was the opposition that put a law and mounted it big chicken when there was no kind of problem at the educational level in that sense. But you come here saying that we can't make politics in Parliament, and that we also make politics by calling boycott. That yes, calling the boycott is tremendous; now, imposing a law against everyone, that's not tremendous. Because as long as you have the majority you can impose whatever you want; therefore, acting like a parliamentary dictatorship: I have the majority and the rest of society, and I am able to send whatever you want. But besides, you also say that revalidation is a great formula for knowing the problems and correcting them. I mean, you're confirming the popular party's contempt for our professor, for his professionalism and for his continued evaluation, that it was crucial to evaluate the student and that it brought great benefits to the student. The educational society, the society in general, immediately acted against this law, against LOMCE, because it considers it harmful, a law that prevents the right to education to all students, which increases the privatization and marketing of education, destroys equality of opportunity, eliminates democratic management of centres, strengthens confessionality, promotes the segregation of students and re-integrates revals of franchiseism to expel students from the popular classes of the educational system. It is an aberration from the pedagogic point of view to subject 8-year-olds to unnecessary pressure, through evidence that will assess it, without considering the personal, socio-economic circumstances and the student's abilities and attitudes. It disregards the continuous evaluation and the opinion of the teaching team. Underestimate and distrust the work of the professor, who will be subjected and fully conditioned to guide his teaching work to prepare the student for the best possible note in the final evaluation, leaving other fundamental educational aspects. This law is moving towards a competitive, classical and segregational educational system. Since the People's Party arrived in the Government, the attacks on public education, orchestrated by Minister Wert, have been at the forefront of the Government's launch, until they can return public education to the Frankish era. One of the first measures of this nostalgic of franchiseism was LOMCE, the new educational law that involves a leap back into unprecedented times. You move your head when I say frankness. It's just that I haven't been looking at a virgin's medal either. It's just that you have things that bring us memories of the past, and they do ministers and advisors. Of course, they remember past times. This law was accompanied, in addition, by the cut of EUR 7 billion in public education, and by the dismissal of more than 32,000 teachers in schools and institutes. However, the main feature of LOMCE is the segregation of students through the revamps, external tests at the end of each cycle, recovered directly from the Frankish dictatorship. Once again to memorize as robots the list of the godo kings. This revalid converts studies into a career of obstacles, segregating students for economic reasons. What they want from the Ministry of Education is to use these exams to expel hundreds of thousands of students from the education system through the fast track, and besides unqualified to exploit them to their liking in the labour market. Education is not improved by exams, but by investing resources in enough teachers, and means to meet students with special needs. The revals in non-university education were suppressed by the General Education Act of 1970 of Minister Francisco José Luís Villar Palasí, in force until 1980. To regulate non-university education, from 1980 to 2012, there were six organic laws, including Wert: the Organic Law of the Status of Schools, of the UCD; the Organic Law of the Right to Education, of 1985; the General Organic Law of the Education System, of 1990; the Organic Law of Participation, Evaluation and Government of the Teaching Centres, of 1995. And so to Law Wert. It seems impossible to make an education pact that compromises us all. The upheavals of other times should serve to judge the advantages and disadvantages of the current upheavals. In the revals of franchise – which Wert wants to recover – there was a lot of students who spent years preparing them for the bachelor's degree. But those who had no money to go where to prepare them, were excluded from the education system and without a title. Some of those who didn't pass the exams went to the seminary or the FP. Others learned a job or put themselves to work without him in construction, agriculture or fishing. And others ended up emigration. Because there was so much school failure with the upheavals of that time, a great social repulsion was created for them. To pretend to have more titles, franchiseism has just suppressed the revals of State education. When the almighty franchise suppressed the upheavals, there were many fewer pupils than now; therefore, today the consequences will be worse. Where's Wert going to send students who don't get over the reval? Because now at the seminar, they don't want to go, work for what doesn't need preparation, either, and send them to the FP or finish the third ESO, as if they want to, and then they don't have a job, it's not a plan. I'd like you to answer what you're going to do with these students the People's Party. The People's Party and Wert use the law as a weapon to impose their ideology, and in order to achieve it, it takes Parliament's will as the only valid reality, without taking into account the will of most people, as it is done in democratic countries. The imposition of biased ideology in education is the barrier that prevents an agreement on education, which is essential for improving public education. The lack of means in public education cannot continue indefinitely to cover with a demagogic reform after another. Revalids are not a substance to teaching, but a means for the selection of students. The only acceptable selection is that the course is taken, having the means to recover those who do not progress properly. Because the democratization of culture, which is to make knowledge available to society as a whole, cannot be accomplished if a sector of culture is excluded from teaching with revals. Furthermore, it is not democratic to use the teaching of the poor to select the better intellectually gifted students, as Frankism did, and to disentangle from the others to save means. And above all to discriminate against the student, favouring the rich in relation to the poor, this law is centralizing, because it removes competences in education to the nations of the state and imposes 10% more state content on matters of Spanish, mathematics and science than the bilingual communities currently have. This is a measure to castelanize, because it is the theme of the People's Party, which uses mathematics and science to justify the increase in teaching hours of Spanish. According to Wert, everyone has the right to speak Spanish as a vehicle in which they receive education; but in Galicia we are not entitled to receive education in our language. The decree of plurilingualism of Feijóo, the annihilator of our language, prohibits it. However, in the childhood phase of 0 to 6 years – the most important of all for language acquisition – it requires that the language of most pupils in each class be used in this teaching, almost always being excluded from Greek, with the approval of the Galician Union. Therefore, this law is clearly centralizing, spanishing, besides segregation. A model of teaching, that of Wert, which is governed by two principles: one nation, one language, one state. Wert's Law is the fruit of a colonizing and disidentifying Spanishism that does not respect state nations and languages other than Spanish; nor does it respect students, students, parents, mothers, or teachers. So an educational aberration, an aberration of an incredible caliber, an aberration that goes against any educational theory. And it can't be compared to Germany or the Nordic countries, it can't be compared because we don't have the same means or the same investment in education. You want to do the same with less, and that's impossible. Yes, or more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know where the "more" is spent in teaching? To the high offices of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u206	Good afternoon to all and to all. True, today it has been said repeatedly that one of the most obvious symptoms of social change that we are seeing all citizens, citizenship in general, is reflected in the election results. It is true that this is a faithful demonstration that citizenship is tired and tired of being taken by its hair, of course. But there are symptoms, from my point of view, that are even deeper. And surely this picture that I'm going to show is a very profound symptom of social change that shows that citizenship is tired of this government, that citizenship no longer believes the lies of this government. It's the image of a school, of the College of Vite, where, of 22 children, 20 didn't attend to renovate. I suppose this is the reliable data that the advisor gave here today. The vast majority of families have decided not to send their children to school, to exercise civic responsibility and, of course, to ensure their children's educational rights. This is the reality and this is the consequence of the deaf ears you have made, Counselor, in the face of the warnings, especially in this group, that they were bringing forward the revalids in a hasty manner, in an opaque and lack of information. The answer hurts families, this is a picture taken in a public center of this country at the first hour of this morning. But the data speak for themselves, the confederations and associations of parents and mothers of students speak of a level of absenteeism today, at school, above 60%, Counsellor, that's reality. Because the image I just showed you reflects that fear is changing sides. The image that I just showed you reflects that the idiocy pills that you desperately share don't have any effects anymore. Because citizenship has its own voice, because citizenship has critical conscience and because it's not willing to continue being deceived by you. It is therefore an image of dignity and civic commitment of the pupils' families and the Welsh students we want from here to bless by their decision and their involvement in the improvement of our education system. Some families that, for thousands, in Galicia, and despite their misinformation campaign, are assuming responsibility for defending their rights, a citizen obligation. A family that, by its own decision, despite having received a letter that is a real disgraceful pamphlet by this government – they decide to deceive themselves – do not believe them. That's the reality. It is the first time – at least since I have used memory – that a government sends a letter to the pupils' families in Galicia to refute the claims, specifically, of this group. That's something totally shameful: using an educational public administration to pour out falsehoods and lies, as he did in a letter that is already for you "the letter of shame." Counsellor, you did your first 100 days in front of the Education Council last Wednesday, I don't know if you've taken the bill. You had the possibility – remote, but certain – to show at least a greater listening capacity than your predecessor. But he didn't, he's not doing it -- I'm telling you -- he didn't listen to the voices that demanded a change of direction in linguistic policy, he didn't, he's not doing it. And he didn't listen to the voices that required him to paralyze the application of the revals in the exercise of the defence of Galicia's educational powers. He didn't. It accumulates two reasons in a hundred days to resign; and a third which is the result of these two: the inability to make decisions for yourself, the ability to decide, the ability to exercise as an autonomous government of Galicia, which you deny to yourself. And that's a cowardice, of course, that the educational community cannot forgive you. Because if anything is expected from a director, of course, he has the ability, the courage, to decide, to govern and to defend rights; more if they are educational rights of the community to which he is addressed. There are five communities, therefore, that have decided not to apply these revalides. You could have done the same – we explained – even if it had been shyly requested a bilateral study commission with the Central Administration to look for ways, of course, respect for our country and for our children and our children. He did not, therefore, – I insist – his first 100 days are really bad. I'm asking you what you're going to do. It wasn't very convincing his expression that the degree of participation in the revalids is being quite high. Remind me once I decided to make a menu by inviting some friends and asking them how it was and they told me it was pretty good. When you say "good enough" is that it's usually pretty bad, you know that. The families decided clearly to oppose this measure, and if there are many families carrying their children, it's because they have no other choice, don't forget. The reconciliation of family and work life in this country, of course, is not easy. So I think you, as an advisor, have no clear administration of which you are responsible. You're an education advisor, you're not any councillor. You are ahead of learning, the most responsible of the teaching and learning processes of more than 200,000 children. You can't come here saying that you can't make politics on this subject. What are we going to do about politics if we don't make politics about education? Do you want us not to talk about education? Because that's the feeling we always have that we go up to this rostrum. You talk about data, percentages, figures, but education is much more than that. And if you don't take care of that reality, you're not a worthy education counselor. And there's something far more serious than all that I just said. You're not only lying, you do it repeatedly, you degrade our education system. Because when you say that families who don't take their children to revamp won't have access to relevant information about the evolution of their children's teaching and learning process, you're lying and degrading teaching. Families have extensive information on the evolution of their children's teaching and learning processes. They do it on a continuous, global and comprehensive basis, the teaching professionals who work every day with the children and families. That's the reality. If you want to incorporate some improvement into the evaluation processes, do it, but about the processes, not just insisting on the results. If you focus solely on the results, it will provide an absolutely distorted view of our educational system. But maybe that's exactly what they want, to offer a distorted vision that confirms what you always say here that says the Pisa reports, which is that education needs to be changed because education is bad. And, precisely, it's changed along the opposite path that should be taken, which is precarious, cutting and privatizing, that's the reality. So, you, who always pride themselves on defending the teacher, the least you have to do is put your job in value. And evaluation is a daily job that teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers do in their classrooms. They don't need an external evaluation, they don't need it. You don't assume that it's external, because you're receiving evaluation from the Council, but those who pass it are, above all, them. The subject that makes the evaluation must be responsible for precisely drawing up the items of the evaluation. Because, on the contrary, they make an absolutely uncontextualized assessment. That's on page 1 of the teaching manuals. So, rectify, you've only been ahead 100 days, but what's left of you can do very long if you keep yourself and insist on these attitudes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u207	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u208	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Pombo is the protagonist and almost no one speaks of him, who is the interpelent. Counselor, today you come very angry, you really see him angry, you're angry. And you're usually not like that. You're a quiet person, and that's the feeling that I've had up here for these two years, and I peaked at you. And today you are, at last, tense, angry, with a bad face. And the previous counsellor stood there and looked like a gremlin, all the time jumping into the chair, restless, screaming like an ultra. I don't really understand what's going on. On top of that, well, because we are constantly failing to deal with the opposition: we are alarmists, we want to boycott, we are demagogues, we are irresponsible, we want to politicize, we want to politicize LOMCE! I mean, will there be more political law than LOMCE? And they did it, say, with more political ability to benefit some and harm others! That's politics, Counselor, I'd miss more! Of course it's politics. And you want us to come to Parliament and not make politics. This is amazing. And on data one is already used, as a common unionist, to which the data never coincides. Never match the data you give. And I had right now an app of data from Confapa Galicia. Counsellor, public education, real data offered by the educational centres, offered by the directors of the centers and offered by the ANPAs: 60% of these data were given to us, not 20% of what you're talking about. You spoke – and that is why Ramon said so – quite satisfied a moment ago. No, because the data that Confapa Galicia gives – which seems to me to be a serious entity – are 60%. Therefore, Counselor, things are not like that. Vigo data: from 37 public centers in Vigo, only 6 centers were normal, so things aren't like that. You must be strict, Counselor. So I don't think you've been today. Mr. Pombo – who you are the protagonist – about 20 days ago we discussed in this Parliament such an interpellation that the AGE Group was bringing in at that time. And, therefore, the arguments we're going to use in the Socialist Group must necessarily be the same, if we're consistent and sensible, we're not going to change our criteria in three weeks. What is true too – and I'm telling you too – is that yesterday I really felt upset. If I tell them I went to school and I was in touch with children... I just wanted to be. The former councilman one day called me Santa because he was around asking people and wanted to know what was going on. Well, all right, I like it, I wanted to go to a primary center in my district of Lemos -- in a center where Julia was walking there, which Julia knows, and I wanted to be with them. And yes, Counselor, I saw the children distressed. And it may seem like a joke to you, yesterday he laughed at me. Well, I saw worried children, distressed children, and even a crying girl. Yes, he came, and I'm testifying to that school's teacher. You might look nice to them, but we're talking about 8 and 9-year-olds. So for me to go to school and be with children, it's a truly rewarding experience, and I can assure you, without fear of being mistaken, that the perception they have in the educational community, both teachers and families, as well as children, is not exactly positive on these issues. One wonders, ladies and gentlemen, what need we have to distress 8-year-olds and children with evidence that little or nothing will, let us say, serve to improve our education system. What need would we have to worry thousands of families about these tests that were made in a hurry and running? –And then I'll tell you something else within a moment. – And what need do we also, Counsellor, for failing to respect the professor by doing this Paripé not contemplated in the programmings of the schools and classrooms, approved by the Educational Inspection and that at nothing – I insist – will improve the evaluation work that our professionals routinely do? Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that about a year and a half ago we have in force LOMCE, I know it's not a political law, it's a law that has been done for altruism, it's a law that has been made to benefit the education system and that has agreed with everyone. He spoke to opposition political parties, spoke to the unions, spoke to the ANPAs, spoke to everyone. And, therefore, as you spoke to everyone, when you voted in the Spanish Parliament, it turns out that you only vote in favour of the People's Party, Álvarez Cascos and Rosa Díez. I wonder if that's the consensus and that's the responsibility, Counselor, that you were talking about a moment ago when you were addressing the opposition benches. I don't think things can be done that way. This law has clearly been made – and I insist – behind the educational community, has not come across any sector of the educational community, and that is there and there is the data. If that's not politics, God come and see him. That law is even resorted to the Constitutional Court itself by political parties, trade unions and several autonomous communities, I suppose it is not done on political issues. And yes, I say again, for the last time in this Parliament, that that law will last exactly – and I also know that you don't like to tell them, but you have to tell them, because you are also very stubborn – what Mr. Rajoy's government lasts, because you wanted it. So everything that emanates from the law is in danger, of course, yes, of course, because you chose to do it alone and without talking to anyone, neither with the main opposition group. You'll know, there you are. You guys are very capable of working alone, but society already sees that, like last Sunday, sometimes it also gives surprises. The Socialist Group considers that the issues agreed with Euskadi on its day were neither minor issues, subjects agreed on in a bilateral agreement, which I suppose will not be a political issue either. The PP negotiates with the PNV, I suppose it's not a political issue, I suppose it's a subject of macramé, I suppose it's a subject of macramé and it's not of any political importance. But the issues agreed are important, because it applies differently to LOMCE in the Basque Country than in the rest of the Spanish State. Of course it's a political issue. Why did they do it? Probably – and today if I'm going to tell you – because you wanted the government of Basquedi to withdraw precisely that appeal to the Constitutional Court. So they didn't do it on political issues, they did it on altruistic issues. Nor is it an important topic for the topic of language to be shielded by the Basques. Don't you think it's a big issue, either? But they also shielded the presence of the Basque education system in the legislation itself, and shielded the presence of the Basque education system. And I suppose, too, Counselor, that neither is a political issue, which blinds the protection of their language. Therefore, the Basques shielded theirs and you were clearly silent. Mr. Pombo, you are today the interpelent, you bring here this subject. We basically agree with what you exposed in your exhibition, but our arguments – I insist – will not vary. If we had a position three weeks ago, we have to have a similar position today. What bothers us is sometimes things get out of the way and try to say that to make a law alone, to make a very political law, it's not politics, and that the rest of us are wrong. I don't think things go that way. As we also fully understand, Mr. Pombo, the discomfort of the educational community with the subject of the revalids. Today the data that we've been given speaks of 20%, the data given to the parent and mother groups, serious groups such as Confapa, speak of 60%, with real data received from the centers. So I don't think that's the way to do things. You of these revals are trying to make an absurd career of obstacles to nowhere. The Government of Galicia has put in a hurry and running all these issues and here are the results of this improvisation. Thousands of families today have decided not to subject their sons and daughters to it. Mothers' and parents' collectives have also been asking for weeks to meet with the Council, and so far, you, Counselor, have not done so. I'm asking you to sit at the parliamentary headquarters to sit down with the collectives representing the families. So, a totally absurd and useless revalide, which has been in town in the last few weeks to 22,000 Greek children and children aged 8 and 9 years, and I think that what we've just exposed is more than enough to explain the vision we have in the Socialist Party, in the Socialist Group. Our opposition to these kinds of measures and their way of implementing them must be very clear in this debate. But, yes, too, Mr. Rodríguez, I also tell him by looking into his eyes, we will never feed any kind of insubmission to an organic law. The Socialist Group won't. It's an organic law that we don't like and that we'll change as far as parliamentary arithmetic permits. But while she's there, we'll respect her even if we don't like her. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the education system should not be confused with the timely measurement of partial results. The evaluation has to be continued, to have an integral character and to be at the service of the improvement of education. You can't ask for the same results to centers that attend students with different potentials, the evaluation must be consistent and take into account different areas of knowledge, not just two as important as they are. It will not be disregarding the teaching role, promoting the competence of centres, centralizing and taxing unnecessarily, classifying the student from very early age or denying the representatives of families and the teacher as the education will be improved. The key, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Counsellor – and this concludes – would undoubtedly be to provide stability for the educational system, respect for the teacher and put on the human and material resources necessary for our schools and institutes to be able to provide a public, universal and quality service. All the rest are fireworks and palenque bombs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u209	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Fr.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Counselor, good afternoon. We've come here to make an inquiry to the Counsellor on what is really the defense of an educational model, an educational model of the Galician Nationalist Block, which has every right to do so; but it's no less certain that some right we will also have the representatives of the People's Parliamentary Group, that some trust has deposited in us the Greeks and the Greeks in the past elections. With which the qualification in defending projects will not be denied to us too, and to legitimately defend our project. They're talking here, they're talking about re-centralization of skills in a machaconous way, which is not true, you know it by active and passive. It was explained here in appearances by the former advisor and by the current advisor about the approaches that can be made within the competences of timetables and curricular designs with subjects, say, trunks, but also about the competence of specific subjects and also about the competence of free configurations. You know that. They don't use it because otherwise they'd spoil their speech. Mr. Pombo, you said exactly "elitista, classista, socially exclusive to the most disadvantaged." It's a good definition of the previous Galician education system that you defended at your feet together. That's a good definition: a classic and elitist, paying or promoting English courses for the rich abroad, not paying for the least favoured; a system that paid the bus and the dining room to the millionaires who lived more than two kilometers from school and who excluded the children of the poor who lived less than these two kilometers. [[Murmurs.]] You're talking about a classy, exclusive system, for the least disadvantaged, against a system that's the current one, which you assume and can assume of data and, besides, fairness and being fair, exactly the opposite of what you're saying here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because yours was a bad system. [[Murmurs.]] What are you bragging about here now, Mrs. Martínez, who talked here about leaving the street? In the street you left about a million and a half people without any academic qualifications and no ability to obtain any degree in professional accreditation because you have abandoned the studies prematurely and had absolutely no exit for them. And that's what's dragging our society today, too, into the world of work. And for that very reason, these are the measures taken since the Council, following the approval of LOMCE, to promote basic vocational training, which will be believed and will give a title to all those who do not have it. Yes, between 18 and 32 years old, about one and a half million people without qualifications or ability to obtain it, that's the inheritance we've received. And, of course, every time the data comes out, they bother you, because if you finish the speech, they fall to the ground, because they're improving every year, at every step, in every report. And improving with much and substantially the data you had. But of course, it's for you, really, who accuse us of adopting an ideological law, what happens is that you're not really interested in education but as an instrument to achieve your political ends, that's the only reality we have here today. And it is clearly explained by the silence that you kept when socialist laws were passed, which led us to the worst results of the educational systems of history. [[Applause]] I'm quiet again when Law 2/2006 is approved with the evidence that they're here today, which was not "revalid" and is now yes. And they're the same. Sepulchral silence, sepulchral silence remained when in 2008, as part of the Bipartite, they designed the evidence to apply in Galicia. He didn't give them time, but, respectfully, this government applied them. He wouldn't like it or yes, he'd like it or not, but he applied it to them for political responsibility, just the opposite of what you're doing here today, and simplifying falsehood. Because you, better than anyone, know about the data they were handling at that time that the system wasn't working. But they took absolutely no action. And as much as it is explained here, Mr. Counsellor, that this is not a revalid, that it does not evaluate specific matters, gentlemen, that it is not an end-of-stage test, gentlemen, in any case, it is hammering in green rye, that my grandmother would say. Counselor, you can explain it here, the theme is the same, they don't change their position. And then they talk about ideology. Ideological they are. And about the continuous evaluation: it's part of the continuous evaluation, ladies and gentlemen. Exactly as the same test is defined in Andalusia. As part of the evaluation continues to be a more complementary tool to obtain a valid diagnosis to apply to the processes – exactly to the processes, Mr. Vázquez – the appropriate corrective measures; either through the program contracts, the reinforcement measures or any other that the centers, in their capacity and autonomy, can apply to the educators or their own educational model that they consider most appropriate. But you don't like it. Mr Vázquez – the other day in the commission – and today Mr Docasar also spoke of the teaching programs, the classroom programming, the educational project of the centre, the annual general programming – we speak of what you want – that is not included. Do you know any school they don't appear in? It's not true. Because they may not be included in the initial programming, but you know that, throughout the course, unless documents are closed, there are attachments that include the changes. And you, who was director, know that, because it was exactly your responsibility. But he comes here and he talks about not showing up, lying to this House. I don't know whether it was voluntary or involuntary, but it was a lie that you told here, Mr. Docasar. And if so, another verbal dyslate that Mr. Vázquez had yesterday – with all due respect, Mr. Vázquez, who I know of his pedagogical capacity, we left politics aside –: you came here yesterday to make a comparison between the schools on the periphery with immigrant students and rural schools, and you linked them to the worst results. A very serious error in a teacher. Yes, a very serious error in a teacher. It says to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – and I read textually –: "It is very disturbing that there are still educators who believe that the achievements of learning and talent are associated with the socio-economic context, they are distributed to equal parts between the rich and the poor." And to ensure what the spokesperson for the Joint Group said here, equal opportunities, for that is public education, to ensure equal opportunities. And how is equal opportunities guaranteed in public education? Well, applying quality criteria. And how are those quality criteria checked? Well, by evaluating the system, completely. Students, teachers, centers, methodology and the system which applies to the Administration, which obtains the data precisely from those individualised evaluations to obtain those results that enable them to correctly apply to the processes. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vázquez, we agree with the proceedings. But it can't be because I say it or because the tutor says it alone, that it brings in the evaluation process continues invaluable data but that they can't be the only ones, because they're part of it. [[A gentleman: Oh!...]] Oh, indeed, that's the summary of your knowledge of pedagogy, oh! He has no more knowledge... [[Applause]] Your Honor, Mr. Docasar has spoken of the Basques. In fact, they were achieved with an agreement – which I see they have not read in the paragraph which corresponds to preserving the appeal of the Constitutional Court, because they remain vigilant except in the terms in which something has been agreed. And not only that, Mr. Docasar. It's just that Galicia, which got the Basque Country in a separate paper, got it at the sectoral conference and at the negotiating tables, specifically with regard to the Greek language, in particular. And not only that, but measures to pay attention to diversity or the DHD, Your Honor. The same is true of flexibility in the application of the LOMCE calendar. All of this, speaking, I didn't walk out of the meetings as some of them did and then calling through the back door to fix what wasn't who through the front door. [[Applause]] And you did, you asked for consensus. Everything you want, but in Madrid the main protagonist... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u212	...member of the commission, eight years, impossible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u213	Your time is up, Mr. Farinas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u214	...impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u215	Thank you very much. Replica roll. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u216	Mr. Farinas, all the legitimacy to defend from this stage whatever you want, all of it. I wouldn't hear anything else from my mouth. Now, agree with the counsellor who says that politics cannot be done here. "Do as I did," said Franco, "do not get involved in politics." That's the system. [[Applause]] Madam President, thank you very much. I, of course, am a little confused, a little confused, because yesterday, on this same stage, we talked about the individualized third-party assessment test, which is being carried out today and tomorrow. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The proposal for this group is the speedy withdrawal of this proof and the withdrawal of LOMCE. That was yesterday. Today the councilman comes and goes on to talk about it, when I've presented an interpellation that talks about the final evaluation tests of Primary, Secondary and Bachelor's degree. That's the interpellation I make to the advisor, and he tells me we don't confuse. I didn't come to talk about yesterday, I came to talk about this interrogation. It seems that Mr. Fariñas is also throwing himself into the pool and doesn't see if there's water. And if it's very deep, it's dangerous, uh, to throw itself into a pool without water. You have to look at the water first. Therefore, you, Counsellor, remain silent – straight in front of the centralized elaboration of the contents of the final assessment tests – I repeat to you in Primary, Sixth; Secondary, Fourth; and Bachelorate, Second. That's what we're talking about. Skills were invaded when preparing the curriculum. The quiet councilman and the silent board, because it seems to say Wert, we're happy. Nothing was done to ensure that Galicia's teaching skills were respected in the LOMCE reform. It is true that other communities fought, in defence of their interests, against the breach of competences also at the time of the final evaluations of Primary, Secondary and Bachelorate, against the segregation of students, in favor of the democratic management of centres from their own autonomy, against the segregation of students according to academic performance. Other communities did it, not Galicia, because it has no interest. Nothing has been done by the Counsellor either to assume new exclusive competences in education, which can be asked for. Also on the subject of assessments, there's no interest. No interest in the management and organization of the Greek centers. Looks like Wert has all the potential he wants. Counsellor, the social justice of a society is measured to a large extent by the quality and extent of the compulsory system and its impact on the minority of social differences. With the application of LOMCE, with the introduction of final evaluation tests, the quality of the education system is not sought, it is not sought to minimize social differences. The revalids aim to select, classify the student and remove it from the possibility of access to the Greek university system. That's what the evidence is to see how it's going... we're talking about ESO's room that, if you don't approve, you don't have the title, eh! And in BAC's second, the same thing. We're talking about a different subject, and what happens is that I'm surprised that you're coming here on this side to talk about these things. That's what we talked about yesterday. It was something else today. The quality of the education system defends itself by defending our exclusive educational competences, the Galicians; promoting the increase of teachers in public schools, also in rural areas; respecting and defending the professionalism of teachers – which it turns out that a third-party student is now arriving and teachers are not aware of whether it is going well or not, that there must be a test –; providing public centers with the resources necessary for the student to be trained by the end of compulsory education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u217	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u218	...in both languages and with an integral training; enhancing the puppetry. I, of course, regret that of the four questions that I asked the advisor about the final revals, not the third, at the end, had not answered me anything. Nothing told me about the project of final evaluations, nothing about recentralization, nothing about the defense of competences, and nothing is going to be asked to withdraw or not. I, of course, regret it, because that was the intention I had. And I'm sorry that I don't heed the demands of the parents, the demands of the student, that they ask for the withdrawal of the ESO fourth revalids, because, if a student approved by evaluation continues to attend high school and the bachelor's degree, it shouldn't be necessary to do a new test to try out. So I'm sorry you don't take the whole educational community into account. I give you all the validity that everybody has to defend the political and educational positions you want. And, of course, the BNG ones you won't take them off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u220	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u221	Thank you very much. The Education Adviser has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u222	After listening to some opposition spokespersons who spoke this afternoon, I don't think we have to do competency assessments, I think we have to do revalids. Yes, but political revalicious. And, above all, in language, in language, we have to make political revolutions because they still use a word that they know is not. I think it's necessary to give you a revalid, it's not the slightest doubt, and it's also in mathematics. Mr. Vázquez, tell me that the vast majority of families are 20%. I think he also needs a revolution in political mathematics. [[Applause]] And look, of course, here, in Parliament you come to become a politician, of course. And each with his arguments and his data. There are no threats coming here. But neither should they come up with such banal manipulations as we saw today. Manipulations that look like, let's say, that trick in the photos Stalin was making with Trotsky, right? Where Trotsky was, they took Trotsky and Stalin left alone. Or what you can see in The Ministry of Truth, gives George Orwell's fantastic novel. [[Murmurs.]] I think they're examples of real manipulation, because you've taught a picture here fantastically of a gallery coming out in a newspaper today. [[Murmurs.]] But he didn't teach the rest. He didn't teach where 80 percent of the students are. With which, I tell you, that's like getting Trotsky out of there or getting Mrs. Yolanda out of here. It's a simple manipulation and that's why I'm saying that here we have to make politics with arguments, with data and not calling the photos, because that's getting pretty easy today, isn't it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And with regard to the data, here we have talked about the data of a confederation that, of course, we respect, but you will have to make sure that we pay more attention – and you would also do so – to the data of the Educational Inspection. Unless you're here now to question the Educational Inspection. We're not going into a number war, which is absurd. Now, if the Educational Inspectorate says that around 80% of the students provisional data pending tomorrow were to do this test, do you want me to tell you, what do you want me to tell you? That I think the Educational Inspectorate has the real data, not the data they'd like to have. The real data points them to the Educational Inspection, and here we are told by that percentage, just as it tells us that in 95% of the centers it was done with total normality. At 95% of the country's centers were done with total normality. And I think they're good data, they're good data, because they're responsible. The administration is responsible, does what it has to do, develops and enforces a law. He did it with the socialist law and made it "with the socialist revalid" – as you would call it – of the Primary Room. He did it because of responsibility. The vast majority of families and centers are also responsible. And it's not that the others are not responsible, at least, that 20% that I make a call – and I repeat – to participate in the tests. But the vast majority of families and centers have shown great responsibility. And you again manifest a strong irresponsibility. And a strong irresponsibility that's constantly being seen. Today we saw students on school hours in demonstrations. I think that's irresponsibility. We saw that public administrations are planning to enable spaces for children and their families to have where to be – that's good and not have to be where they have to be, which is in schools forming and educating; public administrations, something we understand irresponsible. And we also see how constantly it's repeating machaconically, machaconically, a series of slogans that really don't go away, just political slogans. And look, they like it or they don't like it, LOMCE is a democratic law, approved by a democratic parliament. I think, if we start discussing that issue, it's better that we all go to our homes. If we start thinking that a law passed in a democratic parliament and with a democratic procedure is not democratic, I think we should all go to our homes, because it would really be very worrying. And then I think that here is saying a great falsehood: that this assessment is planned to expel the least qualified and the most disadvantaged from the system. It's just the opposite, it's just the opposite: in order to be able to detect those evasus and those educational difficulties that enable the system, the professor, the administration, to put corrective measures so that these students don't go out on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u223	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u224	...without any kind of titration, like, by the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u225	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u226	...they were leaving with an educational model. In any case, I think the Socialist Party, and here it is said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u227	Counselor, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u228	...if, finally, Madam President, she likes to make education laws, she's done a lot, she's proven unequivocally that they've never done anything right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u229	Thank you very much, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u230	In any case, we call once again the responsibility of the political parties and that they stop doing demagogy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u231	Time's up, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u232	...and manipulation with this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u233	Thank you. We continue with the development of the agenda with point 7, which is that of questions to the Government. Question from Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the violent death of a woman at the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u234	You have the word, Mrs. Acuña, to ask your question. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. Please give a voice to Mrs. Acuña's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u235	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Rueda, today the Greek feminism, in a joint action, will ask the judges to end with feminicide, with a manifesto that says things like these: "Isabel was beaten by what was her husband in a room at Ourense Hospital where she was admitted, after having been assaulted by him at his own house. No protective measures were taken and he could enter the room and kill her. She was murdered by her partner for being a woman, but also the result of the ineffectiveness of public authorities who didn't protect her. But unfortunately, Isabel's case is not isolated. In 2014 we started the year with a double crime, that of Mary, 45 years old, and that of her mother, Adela, 72. She killed her husband from the first man in Cervo. In February she was Maria Luísa, 37, pregnant seven months, beaten up and half buried by her partner in Vilaboa. In April, 71-year-old Elena, murdered by her husband in Foz, fell hands and feet and shot him. In the same month, a neighbour of the Coruña, 43-year-old Maria Belén, was also murdered by her partner, who pulled her out of a moving car. In this case, as in some others, there were previous complaints. July, Sara's husband, an 81-year-old woman, neighbour of Borben's Peace, struck her with a hammer and then suffocated her. In August, she was Monica, of 38, shot by her husband in Barro. Since 2003, about half a hundred Spaniards have been killed because of the violence of the macho, almost 700 in the Spanish state, a feminicide invisible to public authorities, justice, the Government of the People's Party and even the media. Lives that don't have the same weight, the same importance or the same answer as when it comes to other types of terrorism, just a few minutes of institutional silence." Mr. Rueda, this is what feminism says. I want to ask you what you're going to tell all those women. What happened, Mr. Rueda, with justice, with health, with security forces, in the case of Isabel? And what happened in the case of all those others? Why are the victims of machismo, Mr. Rueda, with a state law and an autonomous law still so unprotected? I'm looking forward to your answer. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u237	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Acuña, if the story you did about the deaths in 2014, which is indeed a heartbreaking figure for everyone, is in the sense of calling once again the attention of society – if needed, which I think is still missing – about a problem of this entity, which, when translated into death, is when we remember most, but sometimes there are no deaths, fortunately, but still there is violence and there are victims, welcome be. If what you're saying to me -- I understand not -- is that the Galician Union does not fight against gender-based violence to eradicate it, just as I understand that you fought when you had the skills and would fight again if you had them again, then, if you're saying otherwise, I don't understand anything at all. Because if you're telling me there's a responsibility for last year's deaths in general administration and Galician union, a direct responsibility, what I would have to say is that then in the deaths that occurred when you were ruling you also had a direct responsibility and a causal-effect relationship. I don't think you're telling me that; therefore, I don't tell you. If it's a call for attention to say we have to keep working, perfect. On this particular case, about what many things have been said, you know that there is a secret of summary, you know that very few circumstances are known. So, I guess they won't be doing judges or substitutes for actions that he had to take or not justice. We don't know, because there's a secret to summary. In any case, it's the justice that belongs to him and little more has to be said. I insist, if this is a call for attention, if this is to say again that we still have a huge collective problem, according to it; if it is otherwise, I would of course seem absolutely entrepreneurial. I understand that's not why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u238	Thank you, Vice President. Replica from Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rueda, I'm not telling you. Stalling all feminism, to draw the attention of society, of course, but yours too, Mr. Rueda. Do you think women who are suffering from macho violence will dare to report cases like Isabel's? How do you understand so much summary secret, Mr. Rueda, so much confusion, so much contradiction, so much secrecy, in such a serious matter? But, above all, how do you understand so much abandonment? By the way, if justice were to act otherwise, would you recognize the case of violence as a macho, do you think the hospital would have the right means to protect Isabel? Do we count, Mr. Rueda, and I don't think that's a summary secret with the police enough to guarantee your safety? Would Isabel be alive if she acted otherwise?, and Mary?, and Elena, Sara and Luísa? Tell us what you're going to do, Mr. Rueda, the Government to keep this from happening again. Of course – and that's what I'm saying to you and I reproach you, and I throw it at you, of course – by cutting off in education, health, equality, resources to fight against gender violence, these things don't get better; by legislating against women's rights, neither does Mr. Rueda; taking measures to suppress education for citizenship and replacing it with education, either, Mr. Rueda. And by systematically voting against what is required from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is to recover the budget for the fight against violence and for equality and, in addition, to conduct a detailed study of the cases of macho violence in which the victims were murdered after they had made the complaint and even after having...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña, thank you very much. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is over, Mrs. Acuña, your time is up. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. I suppose when you're done with the arguments, what you have to do is raise your voice, as you did at the end. I won't raise your voice to tell you that on this subject...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u242	Mrs. Acuña, Mrs. Acuña, I think you must now answer Mr. Rueda, you have already spoken. [[Murmurs.]] That's it, that's it. Mr. Rueda, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u243	Yes, especially when responsibility, in such a serious matter, is neither expected nor expected. I suppose you have to camouflage everything by raising your voice. Mrs. Acuña, I'll tell you the same thing again: that you tell me that the Galician Union has a direct responsibility in the death that took place, this neighbour of Verín, Isabel, at Ourense Hospital, or in the deaths that took place in 2014, is as much as I told you that I understand what you're saying is that the deaths that took place between 2005 and 2009 were the government's responsibility that you supported. It's just that it's so irresponsible that this attitude, such a lack of sense, is so lacking in minimum coherence, that it responds to itself. Look, if you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u244	Mrs. Gallego, Mrs. Gallego, please! Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order, and please. I just don't understand what they ask if they don't want to hear the answer. Please do it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, we're not going to talk here or I'm going to explain to each other, the vice president has the floor, which is what he's going to answer. And Mrs. Gallego doesn't think she's seeing you at this funeral. Do the favor. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u245	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u246	Sure, sure. Mr. Losada also seems to mean something. [[Murmurs.]] It's a shame they don't want to hear. I don't know what they ask, I tell the truth. Mr. Rueda, you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u247	No, president, what's a shame is that in a case like this the only thing you do is raise your voice, accuse us of demagogues when we're almost even charged with murder and put ourselves on our responsibilities that, in any case, we'll have as administration as it has always been. As long as there is gender-based violence, administrations will always have their responsibility. But to say that we have a direct responsibility in these deaths is as much as to say that you have it. Neither you nor us. Now, we won't raise our voice, we'll keep working. It's not true, for many times they say it: neither have budgets dropped from gender-based violence nor have we lowered the guard. As long as you scream, make these accusations and make demagogy, the problem won't be solved. It's a shame we're still different about this, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, G.P. about the death of a woman in a violent manner at the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u248	You have the word of Mrs. Adam to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u249	Thank you, President. "Santiago, May 8, 2015. The Council of Galicia expresses its firmest condemnation of the act of gender-based violence that cost Maria Isabel Fuentes life, 65 years old and neighbouring Pazos, Verín, who died this morning at her husband's Hospital Complex in Ourense. This is the first death of gender-based violence registered this year in Galicia, a crime for which the Government of Greece expresses its dismay while calling on society as a whole to rebel against this scourge and collaborate to end this extreme manifestation of inequality, which is gender-based violence. The Greek Government reiterates its support for victims of this kind of violent act and calls for the co-responsibility of all citizens in eradicating this first-order public and social problem. In that sense, Vice President Alfonso Rueda deeply regretted what happened this morning and made a call not to let the guard down in front of the macho violence. It is recalled that the victims have at their disposal 016, a free phone that guarantees the confidentiality of the call, since it is not registered on the telephone bill. In addition, when an agreement is reached between the Union and the Government of the State, the calls that occur at 016 from the territory of Galicia are automatically referred to on the telephone 900400273, or 112 in case the user needs emergency attention." Everything on the website of the Galician Union in this case of violence. Mr. Vice-President, do you honestly believe that everything you can say to that department that coordinates justice, police and equality is that it rejects gender-based violence? In the face of this murder of a woman, in which all the laws passed failed, we don't need protocols because the laws already collect what should be done. I sincerely ask myself: is this gender-based violence for you only a procedure that happens like a press release that is hung on the General Secretariat of Equality page or masculine violence, and this case in particular, requires a concrete investigation into the seriousness of the fact of occurring a month later with indications that there was violence of masculine violence? Mr. Vice-President, is macho violence a procedure for you? I want an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u250	The Vice President of the Board, Mr. Alfonso Rueda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u251	Mrs. Adam, it seems a lie, you, who had responsibilities in the field of equality... is that I ask you the same question. When there were deaths and you had responsibilities in the government, and when you condemned these deaths, was it because you thought it was all a procedure? When you were not conducting the judicial investigation because it was up to the judges, before and now also, in a matter under summary secrecy, and when you were not conducting the police because conducting the investigations of the judicial police is not the competence of the Board – and you should know better than anyone – and said that you had to condemn it, said that the resources were at the disposal of the victims and said that you had to do everything possible, each in the sphere of your competences and coordinatedly, to avoid a crime more of macho violence, all these statements were purely tramit? Or it turns out that you've done everything you can, done research and coordinated by supplanting judges even in what was in summary secret, or it turns out that, as you couldn't do anything there, if you were involved and we, as we say, are the judges under the summary secret who have to take action, and the judicial police – and I think and I am sure that they are doing it, and we also do our responsibility to prevent and avoid what we have to do – it turns out that we are simply making demagogic complaints? Look, while you're taking this opportunity to do these kinds of interventions, I'm sure you're probably not doing everything you can at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Adán Villamarín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u253	"Santiago, February 25, 2014. The Galician Union expresses its firmest condemnation of the act of gender-based violence that cost Maria Luísa Jiménez, 37 years old. This is the second death of gender-based violence registered this year in Galicia, a crime by which the German Government expresses its dismay while calling on society as a whole to rebel... blah, blah, blah. The Greek Government reiterates its support for victims of this kind of violent act and calls for co-responsibility..." exactly the same. You and your department have changed the names of the victims. And this victim, Isabel, deserves an investigation all over the place, not this press release, which is a shame. You did a procedure. I, this afternoon, I want an answer from you or the termination of the General Secretariat of Equality, I don't care, either. I don't know if you can sleep quietly. I can tell you here that I haven't slept quietly many nights, many nights, but you hope not to sleep quietly. Because in front of the incident, that two laws had failed, especially the organic law that clearly refers to the protection of the victims, clearly a woman who was in a public health center, that her batterer, the person who certainly did not allow her to live in peace in the last few years of her life, had waited for the moment she woke up from the coma to kill her, and you came here to make me demagogy... Look, Mr. Vice-President, you need an investigation, I don't care if you do it, your department or anyone you want, but it's clear that here it's not worth saying that laws are passed. Laws exist and protective mechanisms too, but someone will have a responsibility; not surely in that he had been whipped in his house, which would be more extensive, but of course he had been in the hospital. Don't make me answer like that again. For you, gender violence, and go to all the press releases of the previous year and this year, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u254	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Replica by Vice President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u255	[...] Mrs. Adam who, if she was killed in the hospital, is the fault of the health personnel or the Galician board, and if she was killed in her home, then it turns out that it was inevitable. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u256	Quiet, please! Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Martínez, Mrs. Martínez, take a seat! Mrs. Martínez, please! Continue, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u257	I'd like to know, Mrs. Adam, where he is and what was the result, especially so that no more deaths would occur, of those judicial investigations that you have directed – far from what the judges have already done – in the deaths that occurred when you had the responsibility, just as they are doing in the deaths that took place, unfortunately, when we assumed that responsibility, and what is the result and what exactly served the police direction that you have done of the investigations and that you are claiming to me now, what was the result of everything you have not done and that you claim to us. [[Murmurs.]] I trust the judiciary to do this investigation and all, I trust that little by little we will eradicate gender violence. I'm so sorry about this death, just like I'm all sorry. I don't sleep quietly but I don't put it in your face. I suppose you don't sleep at all either, but maybe you'll relax a bit by blaming me, and in that we're totally tied up, Mrs. Adam. Tell me about demagogy. I suppose the demagogy you used in this subject from the beginning to the end culminates in the question you have to ask me. I'm very sorry, because it doesn't fix it, it hasn't arranged it before and now it doesn't fix anything at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u258	Thank you, Vice President. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the judgments relating to the reincorporation of the professor who gave courses Celga de galego for adults
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u259	You have the word of Mrs. Pontón to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u260	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, of course, we were expecting something more of this government today in the face of a case that shocked us, and that continues to haunt us. And, of course, it seems sad to us that the vice president will do nothing but come here to try to hold whoever he asks is an investigation. I'm sorry about this intrusion, but it just seems indecent to me what we just heard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u261	Well, try not to intrude, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u262	In any case, Counselor, we're going to talk about a topic we've been talking about since 2013, and it's the situation that Professor Celga has and the precariousness that workers and workers are accompanying, in this case, who have been providing training in the English language for adults. And it's, of course, unworthy of what you've done with all this professor. And it's dramatic that, instead of listening to and responding to a fair claim, that the only thing he was asking was meeting the minimum labour requirements, what he had done to the Galician Union, what the People's Party had done was not literally listening to and tearing apart not only this program, but also trampling down basic labour rights. And we believe that this attitude is never from receipt, and much less from an administration. And the sad thing is, now that we have judgments that believe that legality has been violated when this professor was fired, there is no responsibility of any kind. The counsellor is not the same anymore, but the general secretary of linguistic policy. And the sad and lamentable thing is that and they support these kinds of practices that have judicial judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that believe that you committed an illegality in dealing with these people. He literally says there was a reprisal for claiming labor rights. In any case, at this moment, after much suffering and a long judicial process, we have 50 judgements that declare these types of actions of the Galician Union null or void, 16 judgments of the Galician High Court of Justice that all go in the same direction; even in some cases when the courts of first instance said they were inaccurate, the Galician High Court of Justice said that these dismissals were null. So we're asking them to stop spending money on judicial processes and stop harming the Galician society, which in 2015 did not have Celga courses, only those of official language schools, which I have assumed an important decrease in the chances of obtaining this certificate, and this has labour consequences, and you also know it very well. So, we want to know, Counselor, if they're going to cease the persecution and hire this professor again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. You have the word, to answer, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u264	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Pontón, I'd like to make a number of things clear. The first is that the Council of Galicia always abides by the judgments and will, of course, carry out what the courts indicate, of course it will always abide by them. Secondly, I wanted to tell you that the Celga, which is a very good educational service, has been running almost exactly the same thirty years. Even with you in the bipartisan government it worked exactly as it did for the last six years, exactly the same way. With which, if there is any kind of unworthy behavior, you too are accomplices in this case of unworthy behavior. Third, they never left and took Celga courses. They were given in official language schools with teachers from the public education system. Fourthly, we are faced with a labour conflict that hasn't opened up the administration and that has very complex legal consequences. In fact, even now social security is claiming to the self-government, and even to some unions, the quotas of social security, which we understand is something that also legally complicates this whole situation. With respect to the demands that you cite, there are many demands, indeed. I think there's a certain distortion in our data. We're talking about 54 demands, one of which is firm. There are claims in the first instance that are unresolved, others are in the TSJ. There have been changes and the Galician Union, obviously, as you will understand, will pose a remedy for marriage to the Supreme. And why? Because he believes that in order to convert these personnel into administrative personnel there must be a procedure, and not to introduce people into the administration without performing the selective evidence corresponding to the margin of merit and capacity processes. I think that you also support him and understand him, Mrs. Pontón. In any case, what I'm going to tell you is that this government is going to do is that, when it is legally confirmed, if it is confirmed, we will proceed to the labouring of these teachers, so that they are obviously – these teachers – those who give the Celga courses in the calls that will put in place the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy. And, obviously, all those who have recognized their legal status of work have not done Iranian discontinuous jobs by incorporating them into the training of adults as employees of the Council, and, of course, the employment agreement will be applied. But, in any case, I want it to be very clear that at no time there is any kind of reprisal, because this work process and this legal-laboral situation did not open it to the Council of Galicia, but it was opened on the part, and it has unpredictable legal consequences that are leading to Celga's offering being implemented, quite successfully in this case, by official language schools and also by the professor of the public education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u265	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u266	Counsellor, I will tell you what the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia says in a judgment – in Spanish, as it is, so that it can also count on justice – "The very existence of reprisal is evidenced, and this in the case of cars becomes more than evident, since the Council of Galicia has decided precisely to change the Celga course system at the time when the claims of the Celga teachers were beginning to be welcomed. And he decided to change it precisely to leave those Celga teachers who were benefiting from the union complaint." So here you are talking about the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that the Board acted retaliation to the workers and workers who were claiming the rights that the legislation recognizes them. I think this is a point that doesn't deserve discussion. In any case, Counselor, I see that it is good for you to have a secretary-general who illegally fired workers and workers. I see you don't worry that today there's a very important part of people who don't have Celga courses, because you know that the offer in official language schools is very small and that, therefore, many people, even in order to be able to access the public service, are not having any opportunity to study Celga. I also see that you are not concerned about the teaching of German for adults or the reduction that has occurred as a result of a process in which it is the refusal of the Union to accept a reality, the refusal of the People's Party, which leads to this situation. A conflict in which they've spent around 1 million euros, and that, if we go through the judicial route, we're going to get more expensive. We want an answer today. Are you going to hire this teacher, yes or no? We want them to stop judging this process, accept that they will go against the board and stop spending money there; that all teachers who have favorable sentences that are part of that list. Tell us when and how they thought they'd take these sentences, because those of the High Court...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, your time is up, please. Mrs. Pontón! Your answer is no longer being recorded. Time's up. [[Applause]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u268	Well, Mrs. Pontón, who judged this matter, you know perfectly well that it wasn't the Administration, it wasn't the Junta. Who started this process, with complex consequences, wasn't the Cunta de Galicia. Home!, I'll tell you the following for your tranquility, for your tranquility. Look, we're going to stabilize the Celga system, which you haven't done. I and the secretary-general meet with the representatives of this collective, we meet with them ourselves. And this situation is going to have some legal consequences that are unknown at the moment. And to you, who pulls out of the legal statements and out of the cars, I also thank you that, when you don't favor your perspective, you also respect them as we respect what you say. Now, we don't understand and we don't share that of reprisal, because, I insist, it wasn't the administration who started the legal process, it wasn't the Administration. And look, the responsibility of this administration, of the Galician board, is to guarantee a proper offer of Celga courses, and he did it through the official language schools, and he did it through public teachers, with teachers who are specialized in Greek language; he did it in his own official language schools and did it through on-line courses. And look, this year there were 33 Celga courses, and 24 online courses of legal and administrative language, as you know. But we really want to give more courses to Celga. We've been thinking about expanding the offer this year. And for that, for your tranquillity, we're going to count on all the teachers who have recognized their working condition by the Council. And I'm going to tell you something else: this staff will be summoned – it'll be necessary to draw up a list based on each's merits – to give around 30 new Celga courses, away from those that are already being given. For what? So that the coverage of the Celga courses will also arrive, outside the areas of influence of official language schools, because to those towns and localities that don't have the official language schools nearby. Likewise, I will also tell you that, once these courses are given in the first quarter of 2016, the qualification tests will be performed for the students of these courses, as well as for all those people who want to obtain the Celga certificate, both those who do it online and those who go for free as well as those who do it in any other way. With which, be calm, Mrs. Pontón, this administration will fulfill its responsibility, it will have Celga courses, it will count on those people who were giving these courses, we will increase the educational offer, and that is why I tell you, Mrs. Pontón... – if you look at the computer too, you will also listen to me...– Well, the truth is I've already said it, but in any case, I'll tell you that there's going to be an increase in supply, in respect of official language schools, in more than thirty courses this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u269	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the impact that will have on the improvement of the education system the new revamping established by the Organic Law to improve the quality of education for third-party students of primary education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u270	Mr. Docasar has the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u271	Thank you, President. Counselor, I'm going to try not to talk about politics, I'm going to try not to talk about politics and talk about the revalid, that word you don't like. We can call it "revalidina"; instead of revalidina, we're going to call it "revalidina". In any case, you fully understand that this is a word that is understood very well and that everyone understands in the educational community, and that is why we are certainly using it to the Members of this Parliament. Counselor, seriously think that we can improve our education by deploying through the fast way and at zero cost a deeply sectarian and party law, cutting human and material resources, disregarding the views of the professor and the families and making four revamps throughout the educational stage, to me it seems like a real nonsense. By the way, eight months after implanting the Basic FP in Galicia, of which Mr Fariñas had previously spoken, zero euros received. You also know perfectly well, Mr Counsellor, that the Socialist Group has always been tremendously critical with the implementation and implementation of LOMCE both in Spain and here in Galicia, because we understand and continue to understand that this country has lost a new opportunity to provide stability for the education system once and for all. And by the way, we've never had that stability in this education system because you, the People's Party, never wanted it. You have always stood aside from consensus with the rest of Parliament's political forces. Look, please, the hemerothecs. Stability would be a good way to improve the system. I always say that, I thought about it earlier when I was in the educational center, when I was a director, as a unionist, and I think of it as a member. So I'm not new on these kinds of issues. We also think that, despite what has been said with very little rigour in recent times, the education system of this country has improved little by little before the massive cuts that have been made, and that it must not be so bad when it is so well valued outside our country by many countries that receive our titles. But you, Counselor, are something else. You'd rather turn the education system into a career of obstacles, from very early age. You have decided in a hurry and running that 22,000 children and children must be tested whose purposes and results will only serve to encourage competition between centers, to establish rankings – and time will tell and to upset thousands of families. And about the data, you said 20%, the TVG is giving 40%, the same as Europe Press, the parent federations 60%. They agree, but I imagine the data on the TVG will not be manipulated, I want to think. Counsellor, the education system needs stability, human and material resources, maximum respect for the teacher and a lot of common sentiment, which I think you have, but it's not really getting out. What our education system doesn't need is magic recipes, sectarianisms and frivolities. And that's why today I ask you: do you consider the Education Council and you, as Counsellor, that this revalid or revalidated third-party Primary really brings something to really improve the education system? You have the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u272	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u273	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Docasar, linguistic understanding and oral expression are very lacking. Revalid is not equal to evaluation. If we agree on it, we'll have a lot of progress. One thing is a revalid and another thing is an evaluation. His government, his political discipline, was proposing individualised diagnostic evaluations exactly as they are now. With a difference: they were made in a room, and LOMCE planted them in a third. A similarity: both evaluations focus on mathematics and linguistic understanding. A difference: there's a difference between 9 and 8 years of age, actually, there's an age difference. But why is that question being asked? In order to be able to move forward, so that the educational administration, the educational community, the teacher community, can move forward in one year to the implementation of corrective measures if they are needed. And another difference, another substantial difference: that families are going to have a personalised knowledge in an evaluation process that complements the continuous evaluation of the teacher. And in this case we do not evaluate subjects, but lines of linguistic understanding or basic skills of a mathematical and linguistic character. That's the difference between you and me. Everything you're saying about this evaluation process – I insist, not revalid – has to be applied to what was done with socialist legislation, what was done in this country and throughout Spain without any kind of problem in the Primary Room. Because I'd like to, and I know it's not the procedure, which you explain why this phobia, that huge phobia that you pose to this evaluation process that is practically identical to what you posed at the time, to the differences that I posed: one, to advance the diagnosis and to be able to correct as soon as possible those that are detected and, two, to give information to families. I suppose you won't be against family reporting, I suppose, nor will you be against that, if there's a problem and if you detect it as soon as possible, if you correct it as soon as possible. I'm sure you're not against it. That's why sometimes ideological veils, partisan veils don't let him see reality, and you're always complaining, always claiming that there's educational stability. But it was the Socialist Party in the history of democracy who made all the organic laws, that they were taking each other apart from LOMCE! You tell me you want stability, and then you tell me, but calm down, that the day we rule we're going to change the law again. Please, I think you should agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u274	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u275	I'm sure they'd do us a great favor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Docasar Docasar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u277	Counsellor, you've talked about linguistic understanding, I'm telling you about mathematical understanding: 20%, data you told when you started this session; 40% that gives TVG, which I understand will not be an easily manipulated means of communication by the opposition, and 60% that's giving Confapa Galicia. I insist, mathematical understanding. I hope you'll tell me something in your replica shift. Listening is not bad, I always tell you, Counselor. I've been here a lot of time. You told me many months ago: persevere. As long as he perseveres, he gives exactly the same. I persevere, I persevere, I persevere, and we make proposals in a positive way, you never contribute and, let's say, you accept anything. And when I say "nothing," it's nothing. And I insist: listening is not bad, because this weekend he spoke citizenship and said very important things. I think, if we all listen more carefully to citizenship, we'd better go, too, to you, who have no reason to be nothing happy, I think. Reasons have very few and will surely be seen in Spanish society on June 13th. We'll see the data. Remember what happened to them at the Galicia School Council with the decrees of Secondary and Bachelor's degree. They reflect on the response that thousands of Greek families have given today to this little, revalid, revalidative test, as they want to call it. Listen to what the mothers and parents have told them. I urge you, Counsellor, to improve the education system by cutting out teachers' templates, by reducing means in schools and schools, by denying teachers and families and by testing, let's say, externally, thus being a career of obstacles, it is a real barbarity. Do you think that could be better? I think you're wrong, and that's why I tell you in this Parliament. You don't confuse the evaluation of the education system with the timely measurement of partial results, and only two subjects. The evaluation must be continued, it must be of an integral character and be at the service of the improvement of education. You can't ask for the same results to centres that serve different students and with different competences. The evaluation should be consistent and take into account the different areas of knowledge, and not just two important ones.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u279	It won't be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. [[Mr. Docasar Docasar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. Thank you. [[Mr. Docasar Docasar speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, he's just finished his time. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Docasar... and the spokesmen too. The sentence is over for you. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u281	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, Mr. Docasar, here I bring data from Educational Inspection. You're a teacher and I'd probably have a lot of dealings, and they'll stay with you in the future – sure, with the Educational Inspection. I wouldn't question that data and give more attention to the data on Educational Inspection than to other data. I think we'll agree on that. Maybe we won't agree on other matters, but in that we will agree, that Educational Inspection is a service that works magnificently and that, if Educational Inspection tells us it's 20%, I believe it. You may not believe it, but I believe it, no matter what other organizations, institutions or anyone else may say. I'm, in principle, the thread of Educational Inspection. And look, you're certainly persevering, it's true. And he always tells us we don't listen to him. You see, yesterday they had a great opportunity to support a positive measure, as it was to promote speech in school systems. And what did you guys do? They voted against it. Well, very important, it's quite important, quite important, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sophisticians didn't like it, Mr. Abel, but well, I think that prayer is an important subject for students, to improve the comprehensive training of our students. In any case, I, who have historical formation, Mr. Docasar, will tell you that sometimes making short-term comments is not good, because sometimes it rains on many sides. Three years ago it rained differently than it rains today, and perhaps within three years or a year it rains again, with which acts of short-sighted sovereignty say, "No, think of what happened on Sunday." Because you should also think, you should also think, because I don't think you're proud, you shouldn't be proud of what happened on Sunday – maybe with the exception of a fellow who lifts his hand there. But by taking that matter out, they shouldn't be too proud either. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And look, I'll tell you a question, I'll tell you a question. I'm going to read a text literally, whether it's OK or not. "Assessment means that this process is understood as a strategic tool of improvement, a key reference for guiding education policy and giving coherence to care strategies, training, counselling of schools and teaching teams." Do you agree with that? That's what the third grade primary evaluations do, isn't it? And that's what the Andalusian Board does for primary second grade students. So I'm really surprised. I mean, if it's done in third, it's wrong; if it's done in second, it's okay. If it's done in Galicia or in another autonomous community it's wrong; if it's done in Andalusia, it's fine. [[Applause]] Look, I think that for what this evidence serves, we've already said it in this Parliament more than a dozen times. I have a didactic vocation and I try to explain things as best I can, but, as it is usually said, if you don't want to understand anything, you don't understand anything. I think the test has already been explained by active and passive what it is for. And what benefits will it have? Which will be precisely for those students who have more difficulty in learning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u282	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order pronounces words which are not perceived.]] He doesn't have a micro anymore, eh! [[Applause]] Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the repercussions for Galicia and Spain of the signing of the International Convention against the Trafficking in Organs and, in particular, the election of Santiago de Compostela as headquarters for its formalization
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u283	You have the word, Mr. Núñez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u284	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. The World Health Organization estimates that about 10 per cent of the world's more than 112,000 annual transplants are performed with organs from illegal trade. At a WHO meeting in Madrid two years ago, José Ramón Núñez, responsible for transplants in that organization, regretted that WHO had no legislative or sanctioning capacity in this area, but also stated that they would try to influence governments by encouraging them to change laws against that practice. It is therefore necessary to contribute significantly to the eradication of trafficking in human organs by means of agreements that include the introduction of new crimes and complement existing international legal instruments in the field of trafficking in human beings for the purposes of organ extraction. Even so, it is clear that in order to combat effectively the global threat posed by trafficking in human organs, close international cooperation should be promoted. On 25 March, 14 European countries signed an international treaty in Santiago de Compostela to classify this practice as a crime. The Convention of the Council of Europe on Combating the Trafficking in Organs, which seeks to break down bureaucratic barriers to international persecution and which underlies the focus of justice the intermediaries in the purchase, the health personnel who participate in the transplants and even the receivers of the organs, especially when it is not a matter of life or death, is undoubtedly a very important step in the international struggle against this eve of humanity. And once again Spain finds itself in a preferred place in this common endeavour and in the genesis of the agreement, thanks to the primary role of the National Transplant Organization, world reference in this field. That is why we asked you, Counsellor, what does this International Convention against Organ Trafficking mean for Galicia and Spain, and in particular the fact that Santiago de Compostela was elected as the headquarters for its formalization and signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u285	Thank you very much. The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. As you said, on 9 July 2014 the Convention of the Council of Europe to Combat Organ Trafficking was adopted by the Committee of European Ministers. The Council of Europe decided to sign this agreement in Spain in recognition of its world leader in prayer and transplantation. In particular, Santiago de Compostela was the headquarters designated to host the signing ceremony. This election is undoubtedly due to something that all Greeks and Greeks must be pleased with: the symbolic meaning of the city of Santiago in Europe and in the world, which made it a particularly suitable seat to host this important convention. He also had a decisive weight in this decision the strength of our transplant system. In Galicia, we perform 100 organ transplants per million inhabitants. Since the introduction of transplant programs, more than 6,600 have already been performed, including kidney, liver, heart, lung, and pancreatics. Behind these cold figures, after each of these 6,600 interventions, there's a patient, a person who saw his life saved or checked how his quality of life was radically improved. There's also a solidarity gesture from a donor, a generous act like there are a few. As health counsellor, I can only convey my deepest gratitude to them, those donors and their families, who at such painful moments are able to make this prayer. But also to all professionals, to all those hundreds of professionals who make it possible for our health system to be a reference to Europe and the world every day. It should be noted that this activity takes place within public health, in public hospitals, a real success of our system, after all administrations. We are convinced that it would have been impossible to reach this level outside a public system. Greek citizenship can also welcome this. Thus, on 25 March, 14 European countries came here, the capital of Santiago de Compostela, Galicia, to sign this international treaty that defines organ trafficking as a crime. I think it's obvious that an act of similar magnitude transcends and entails one more impulse to our international projection, the international projection of Santiago, Galicia and our transplant system. As citizens, we must be proud of this, by a system in which, thanks to our excellent professionals, is world leader and leader. I also want to point out that the achievements of the system would not have been possible without social cohesion throughout the country. A significant data: in Spain one in five organs, or 21.2%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u287	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Núñez Centeno's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u289	Thank you, President. Counsellor, this group welcomes the signing of this treaty in the city of Santiago, both by the symbolology of the city itself and by the recognition that Europe makes of the importance and strength of our country's public transplant system. You just mentioned the number of transplants performed in Galicia, more than 6,600. Significant numbers converted into realities that affect people. Possibly all Members and Members of this House have some family, friend or neighbor to whom a surgical transplant procedure has been performed in some body. And in most cases saving your life, or significantly improving the quality of your life. We are with you in the recognition of all the professionals who participate in the public transplant system, example of cohesion and solidarity between autonomous communities and reference worldwide. We share the substance of the agreement that favours the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles to the international persecution of any person or organization that has to do with this delicious practice, in addition to insolidity. WHO claims that beneficiaries of illegal transplants are people with resources from rich countries who, in the face of their risk or that of a relative, do anything, like going to another country to buy organs. These people take advantage of citizens from poorer countries who are forced to sell some organ to support them and their families. We think that the National Transplant System has to be the example to follow in other countries and that models similar to ours would help eliminate such a bad and dangerous lacquer as this. For all this, we ask you the following question: what measures can be taken since health policies can be taken to combat trafficking in organs and illegal transplants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u290	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u291	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our autonomous community 100 organ transplants per million inhabitants is the best reflection that we have a good system of prayers that allows a patient on a waiting list to be very likely to receive an organ in time. Social awareness must be the driving force behind the concept of self-sufficiency, so that citizens who need an organ for transplantation find in their own country the solution to their problem and not seek alternative solutions of dubious legality in third countries. A good system of adoption and transplants like what we have, well articulated, structured and organized, and within a public health system, is the best guarantee of struggle against any attempt at organ trafficking mode. We are responsible for the society that meets all ethical, legal and medical requirements of each action. And in turn, we become sure that each transplant is carried out under the same principles. We are very pleased that the European Council had elected Santiago de Compostela to sign this agreement, so it is a recognition to place Santiago, Galicia and our health system in the vanguard of a matter of such relevance as the fight against organ trafficking, genuine crack for a robust activity as is our transplant system. I do not want to miss this opportunity to once again show my gratitude and that of the whole of society to all donors and organ donors, as well as to their families, professionals and all the people, associations and institutions that collaborate in the information campaigns for the purpose of prayer, and also to the role of the media in the distribution of information connected with this solidarity mode. It's very important to realize to donors and their families that at such a difficult time they have the courage, strength and generosity to think of the others beyond their pain, and they make it possible for other people and society themselves to have an important benefit. I also use it to thank all the professionals in our centers, the Transplant Coordination Office, all the National Health System centers and, of course, the National Transplant Organization. And I take advantage of encouraging Greek citizenship to become aware of the need to be even more supportive and to grow in number of prayers. Few acts are so generous. Besides, there are lives that depend on it, and it may even happen that we need it ourselves. I insist once again that the solution is not to go to alternative ways, or to third countries with more lax legislation, because that's what it can do to undermine prestige and the good work of so many people. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u292	Thank you. Da Eva Solla Fernández and Yolanda Díaz Pérez, from G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the assessment by the Government of Galicia of the constitution of a study commission for the demographic recovery of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u293	You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u294	Good afternoon, Mrs. Mato. Well, I hope you show a little more interest in the serious demographic problem than you showed in the morning during the interrogation, which you seemed rather distracted. You yourself said about half a year ago, in this House, that the autonomous community was on red alert concerning demography, and yet the policies of this government have not changed an apex. They're going to be meant to make the indentation of the population grow. The demographic problem is obviously not a recent one. We've lost population for decades, and aging is a reality. And yet, since the beginning of the crisis, the implementation of cutting and suffering policies has accelerated this process. In Galicia, in recent years we have a very worrisome rise, a decrease in 2011 of 0.1%; 0.4% in 2012; and 0.5% in 2013. If there is any phenomenon that is seriously worrying and strongly related precisely to economic policies, it is emigration; above all, the emigration of our youth. We discussed this morning: 139,000 human beings were expelled, due to lack of opportunity, from Mr. Feijóo's arrival to the end of 2013. During that period, 214,000 jobs of young people and girls were destroyed, i.e. 3 out of every 4 jobs destroyed were jobs of young people and girls. That's the main reason for emigration. Only in the last quarter of 2014 had to abandon Galicia 21100 girls and boys, a real misfortune, but a disgrace with obvious and obvious political leaders. On the other hand, the reality for those and those of us on earth is practically a rather uncertain destination; that is, privatization and cuts are fed with social services, which are increasingly scarce and worse endowed. This policy, of course, does not generate any conditions either for an increase in birth; on the contrary, we walk in the opposite direction thanks to the poverty to which the working class is being subjected. It's evidence that having children today carries economic needs that can hardly sustain a mass of poor workers, poor workers and workers, that you and your economic measures are generating. With this picture, which implies a serious decline in the average age of the population of Galicia, this government, far from what it announces, does not take this reality seriously. And, therefore, we have to ask you here today whether you intend to follow the same path or set up, based on your appearances or what you have said here, a commission that relates or tells us what measures you should take from a serious point of view, where experts and organizations of Galicians and Greeks can think about the problems we have, of course, also based on economic and social cuts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u296	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Solla, the truth is, welcome to this concern that you seem to have now because of the demographic situation of our community. The truth is I have to say that, to begin with, it's late, it's almost two years late, two years after the media are talking about a problem, a crisis, which is in Galicia, and of course six years late since this Government of the Council of Galicia had put the problem on the table. But, anyway, welcome, because it seems that, somehow, along with that problem you were alluding to in the morning that the population's coming down was because people emigrated, it seems that you now open the door and give you the opportunity to have another reason for the population's coming down, which has to do with demographics in particular. As I said, probably in 2009, you, who were not yet a Member or in this Parliament, did not follow up on the Government's activity or parliamentary activity either, because you are claiming what has already existed in this Parliament today. In fact, it was a commitment by the President of the Galician Council, in his first investment debate, which was to show not only his concern but also to develop any activity and competence of this government to dynamize the demographic situation of our community. Thus, in February 2011 this commission was created that you are now talking about, a parliamentary commission in which, from February 2011 to May 2012, the various rapporteurs and experts, proposed by all parliamentary groups with parliamentary representation, of course, made their presentations. And the Government, of course, handed over in May 2012 to parliamentary groups, among which you – I insist – were not yet, a first draft of the plan for the necessary amendments. After the 2012 autonomous elections, voluntarily, to give his parliamentary group the opportunity, even to the rest of the parliamentary groups, the deadline was reopened, despite the fact that we had already collected 17 amendments from the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Group of the Galician Socialist Party in our draft of the demographic dynamization plan. But in view of this attitude of reopening this commission, the committee has been abandoned without making any contributions. So, Mrs Solla, you have shown yourself now concerned, but, however, no contribution has been able to make, despite the fact that it has been almost two years of work for a parliamentary commission here. So, as noted, there was and there is, by the opposition, the intention of torpedoing the action of the Government. And, therefore, the Galician Union had to take the decision to put in place the I demographic dynamization plan that exists in our community, where, of course, there has been a highly criticized publicity campaign, which has been the one that has been leading to awareness-raising since...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u297	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u298	Please give a voice to Mrs. Solla's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u299	Thank you, President. Counselor, I see you're a little undressed, it's been going on since the morning. The truth is, I thought in vain that I was going to improve the thing, but I don't see it. The first report is from Mr. Fraga. I don't know if you also despise the People's Party's own government by that time, but we've been talking about this 1994 report about the problem of demography in this chamber. The problem, the redundancy, is that now the situation is far worse. And I don't think you know too much, because we've already asked a lot of questions in this chamber and proposals on that subject. And, therefore, you also welcome to the debate, because it seems to me that until now you have not been included in it. You did, of course, as you said, we had no ability to make contributions, because we were still not in this chamber, but it turns out that in 2013 there was a unilateral demographic incentive plan, without any kind of budgets and no real measure, and for your debate we had nothing more and nothing less than ten minutes. For a plan that should cover all the boards, if you think it's such an important subject, we had ten minutes. That is precisely why, in view of what it meant, the opposition groups abandoned the committee, because it seems to us that it is a sufficiently important problem – and so we have moved it – to carry it with rigour. And from this plan, the only thing they've put in place, you know, was the Christmas campaigns that in less than two years have involved 1.5 million euros devoted to putting ballads with photographs responsible for women of a situation that is also responsible for their economic policies, that you're driving our youth out of the country and here you don't seem to have anything to tell us about this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u301	Thank you very much, President. With all due respect, Mrs. Solla, we're going to sneak in. Because one thing is to talk about a report and another is to talk about concrete measures, with concrete assumptions and concrete actions, which are, of course, part of that dynamisation plan. And speaking of riots in riots: it wasn't ten minutes or five minutes, but it was fifteen days that were given to the new commission once the elections of the year 2012 were won so that all political groups, those who had already made contributions before the elections of the year 2012 and the new political formation to which you belong – which, of course, in those fifteen days did not present anything at all–. As the only intention is to torpedo, of course, the Government has to do what it has to do is to continue to work and develop this demographic dynamization plan which has a concrete budget, 90 million euros, and also 69 measures to take forward. Among them is a very critical measure by you, which is that measure of awareness of the citizenship in which congresses and debates were held so that you could put the agenda at the forefront of practically all the media – and, as I see, you too – a problem of what citizenship, the Greeks and the Greeks, was not aware: the serious problem of the demographic situation. In the meantime and in parallel, – and this is supposed, Mrs. Solla, to dress it up as you see it – we were able to increase by 71% the number of public squares linked to children's schools, which are public services, which are key to helping the reconciliation of working and family life, as well as helping families, women and men, parents and mothers, with a tax relief that puts our autonomous community as the autonomous community with the greatest tax relief per child, first, second and third children. We also have a strong commitment to further raising the awareness of the rest of society, particularly of social agents, to introduce conciliation measures in collective bargaining, which is where that conciliation can be most useful now so necessary. And we have made a common front with other autonomous communities and even with other European regions. Even today, Mrs Solla, if you are undertaking a European Symbios programme in our autonomous community that we are leading and in which ten regions of the European Union – Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, are participating. Symbios is taking place now because it leads this autonomous community to exchange experiences with other autonomous communities, with other regions of the European Union, and to see how we can all make a common front to fight a problem that is not a problem in Galicia today, but it is a problem in Spain and for a long time. So our commitment is to continue to work by making more public services available to families, more economic aid available to families, and of course also more employment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u302	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. on the situation of degradation of living conditions in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u303	You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u304	Thank you, President. It seems rather curious that while you spend time talking to other European countries, it turns out that we have in Galicia that one in three under 16 lives under the poverty line, Counsellor. Maybe you should think about what you spend on public budgets. We are a developing country, we are a country in which the highest social responsibility has rejoiced, as you did this morning and I suppose you will do in your next intervention, sucking out when the INE says that in poverty and social exclusion we return to data in 2012. You have to be glad that the INE says that we return to 23.8% at risk of social exclusion and poverty, to the measure of political and social degradation in our country. He spoke a month ago to the European Poverty Reduction Network and the exclusion that we have 672,000 Galicians and Greeks at risk of poverty and exclusion. The risk of offered poverty varies between 15.4%, according to INE, and 17.2%, according to EAPN. The problem is that after numbers there are people, the problem is that the same survey that you end up in the morning also says that Galicia is the third autonomous community with more families with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month. It turns out that, precisely – I said earlier – we have a very high rate of child poverty in Galicia. It turns out that in Galicia there are 3,600 human beings living in the streets. Turns out there's 13% of poor workers. It turns out, Mrs Mato, that a year ago you said in this House – sorry, a few months ago, I think two months ago – in a shameful way that there was no such energy poverty, it is recorded. But it also turns out that these same data from the INE of those you lose your chest, and those I suppose will refer to in your intervention, said that in Galicia energy poverty increased by 14.1%. Mrs. Mato, deaths from energy poverty have also increased in recent years. I don't know what plan you have exactly for those 3,600 human beings who live right now in the streets of Galicia. We are the second largest community of homeless people. With this indigent data and this data on the table, as you say, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u306	Keeping in mind that since the Government of Galicia we have all the Galician people, and especially those people who are experiencing it wrong, and when we talk about percentages as regrettable as it is to talk about the percentage associated with social exclusion or the risk of poverty, given that our goal should be to try to reach that 0% of people at risk of poverty, keeping this: yes, indeed, Mrs Solla, you are very lucky when you ask this question that you left today, ask me this question just when it came out of that report of the INE that comes to ratify a circumstance of our autonomous community that probably, as I see, you don't like it. And it's that, obviously, INE, which I don't question, and I suppose you don't either, throws out a series of indicators – which are actually numbers and behind people – that put our autonomous community in a much better position than the rest of the autonomous communities. That's how 13 autonomous communities are worse than we are, because we're the fourth in poverty indicators and even family average income. But the best thing to do is to say something positive, that this autonomous community, compared to itself, is to cast that survey of what you're talking about in this way, is that from 2009 until now, the risk rate of poverty has decreased by 7 points. I mean, when we got there was a poverty rate that exceeded 20% and now it's down to 15.4%. I guess that's data that you're going to find cold, and I think it's cold, too, because I don't think it has to be 15.4%, 12%, 10% or 3%, for me the main concern is to work and respond to all those people, without a roof or roof, with a roof that's going to go wrong. To that end, we are developing all the assumptions of this council through the decision of the Government of Galicia to increase the budget to 60 million euros this year 2015 to give the income of social integration to those people who need it, to help all entities that are working day by day, elbowed with tail, such as the Red Cross, as the Caritas or other entities and to help them and increase the budget of the Galician Union to develop their work and provide those shelter and dining and attention services to their clothes, which are what they are doing. That's what we're doing from the Council of Work and Wellness. We also tried to avoid the evictions with a program called Reconduce, with which we were already working with 300 families who had problems and were afraid to lose their home, and 70 of them, 70 of them, 70 of them who passed through the Reconduce program, avoided the forced eviction of their home thanks to the help and collaboration of the Council of Labour and Welfare and the Government of Galician Union as a whole, and also to the collaboration of the Fegamp Judiciary Council to precisely avoid these defeats. In the meantime, we will continue to respond until we need to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u307	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u308	...to the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u309	Mrs. Solla Fernández's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u310	Thank you, President. Mrs. Mato, the question was quite concrete. What are you going to do to stop being the second most homeless community? What are you going to do for those people who, on the other hand, you in the best case have also withdrawn the right to health care? Look, to me they didn't leave me this question, it seems to you that they left that advice because you don't know what's going on in the real world, what's going on with people and poor workers. You were saying that the budgets have increased, when the Galician board is increasingly indebted, when the social expenditure since it arrived Feijóo has cut 54%, when you cut 54% of the active employment inclusion policies, and so that's why you later have to invest in charity policies. The working class isn't asking for charity, it's asking for social rights, it's asking for work, it's asking for housing rights. And don't talk here, please, about rejections when precisely last year they rose in Galicia by 5%, when the rest of the state has reduced the rate of rejections. You have to know a little bit about what you're talking about here before you give the data. It looks like a lie, you're a counselor and you have an advisory team, I probably don't. It gives us the chance that we are more and more indebted and indebted and paying the same as ever. It turns out that, according to the Board of Auditors, 150 percent of the public debt in Galicia has grown and that's not going to improve people's lives. There are 3,600 human beings living homeless in our community. Mrs. Mato, what are you going to do to solve this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The work and well-being advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u312	Thank you, President. I suppose, Your Honor, that when you talk so loudly about those 3,600 people who say they're homeless in our community, you're referring to a news story that came out in a medium of communication with the result of a Caritas report. I suppose you'll go that way. It obviously doesn't have the ability to count them, it's true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know, obviously, we have to express here about that report and it's not the same people who live on the street as people who have difficulties or who have infringed or who become cared for by the services of Caritas and any other entity. Mrs. Solla, for your information – and it is to be corroborated by the entity that made that report – these individuals are not people without a roof but are people who have received help from those who are provided through these entities who work for exclusion. In fact, Galicia currently has about a million authorized squares to accommodate and house people at risk of social exclusion. This wide network of shelters, which are these institutions and various types of reception centres, places us as one of the communities with the highest care supply for people with no resources and housing needs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, even according to that statistic that you don't like the INE published yesterday, we are the sixth community that has more centers available to people without homes, obviously following communities like Madrid and Catalonia or even the Basque Country. Nor can we make it clear that the situation of some homeless people often responds not to a prolonged crisis situation but also to a personal situation. You should know that because in 2006, when there was no crisis, there were about 6,000 people who would benefit from social integration income. I suppose this data doesn't matter to Parliament, I suppose it's information that seems absolutely irrelevant to you to know that in 2006 there were 6,000 people benefiting from social integration income. What are we going to do? Well, of course, what we're already doing is to give all support first to the entities that are working and secondly to all people who need emergency help or who need social integration income. Ever since minute one, since 2009, we've been responding to all those requests that were entitled to receive social integration income, emergency aid, and so on, and so on, while there's someone who needs it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Mato. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the claim to convert stealthism into a criminal offence in the shellfish
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u314	You have the word, Mr. Balsairo, to ask your question
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u315	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, the General Courts have just approved the draft Organic Law of the Criminal Code which reformes and updates the various anti-legal acts which are the subject of criminal reproach in Spain. One of the main novelties in the maritime-fishing field is given because poaching in shellfish is already considered a crime after an amendment made by the German parliamentarians of the People's Group has prospered. This is a historic aspiration of the Welsh maritime sector formulated by the representative bodies of the professionals and of which the Galician Parliament also wanted to echo, also the People's Group, by the adoption of a non-legislative proposal at the plenary session on 14 December 2010. One of the practices that is intended to be avoided is those people who, if they are in an insolvency situation and even using violence, wipe out maritime concessions by causing serious harm to professionals who legally exploit them. Robbyism, aggravated by the one who has a recurrence character, causes a major damage to the sustainability of the resource. The question that this honourable Member, this group, is that it deserves the opinion of the Council of Galicia that the already materialized transformation of theft into a criminal offence. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u316	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. The rural and sea councillor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u317	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, I think that before we start any answers, we should think about the situation that gives rise to this qualification of theft as a crime. I say this because the circumstances surrounding and surrounding this phenomenon often exhausted administrative and punitive measures without being able to become. This, as you will understand, weakened the administration and strength of the sector in front of this activity, leaving the field open to damage the sustainability of resources and even the line of compliance of legality and sacrifice for the future of fishing and seafood that a very large percentage of the sector follows. Since then, the option of considering theft in certain conditions as a crime is positive, if we note that curbing this issue required measures beyond the administrative punitive area and, above all, because it responds to an old demand from the sector and a generalized request from it. This decision, too, was not the answer to a last-minute idea or an event in the morning but to a meditated, debated, analyzed and studied proposal by the Government that involved expert jurists, coastguards, sector and public managers and that we added to all the work of control and fight against theft on our backs and areas. It was months of exchange of opinions and proposals that started in 2004 and that with the change of government in 2009 we resumed as a goal. On 26 March the Congress of Deputies approved the amendment of the Criminal Code and with it a text amending Article 335 which was incorporated into its proceedings in the Senate under the initiative of the People's Group. In this sense, I believe that three facts must be recorded which will frame this punishment of fines, disability or imprisonment between six months and two years old and which are based on the fact that the activity that can carry these penalties is done without the enabling administrative title, on land subject to the granting or authorisation of seafood or aquaculture and with damage and effects on the sustainability of resources in these areas. Since then, this new rule, which will enter into force on July 1, will leave us a new tool to fight the stealth that counts with the recognition of the sector and that we hope that it will complement the administrative activity and cover the cracks that the thieves use to skip the law and land the work of the vast majority of the professionals in the sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. Balsairo, reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u319	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your response and for your initiative and your team's on this road. We know that this matter has been supported and worked by the People's Group, both in Congress and the Senate, as you have just confirmed, by the spokespersons in the field of fishing, in the Congress of the Lumensian Juaquín García Díez and, in this case, in the Senate of Mariel Larriba. We appreciate this work and we know that it did not count on approval and that it did not count on the concordance of many parliamentarians who call themselves representatives of the people but who forget, when they arrive in Madrid, of the people who defend themselves in Galicia. He said, because it seems that some parliamentarians did not listen well, who did not rely on the support of some Members who said they felt representatives of the people but who, when they arrived in Madrid, forgot about that people. [[Murmurs.]] You don't seem to have heard well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, responsible governments are those who listen to the sector over populist opinions or over demagogic opinions. I mean, responsible governments are the ones who don't do what the opposition does every day in this Parliament, who won't let talk or listen. Those are responsible governments. Therefore, Counsellor, here we have often heard statements, that the professionals will go to prison for miscalculations of the fishing diary or even a child with a bucket of Berberects caught in the area where he was playing. The question that this honourable Member is asking you is, Counsellor, to make it clear whether this is true, whether these barbarities which have been said in the Galician Parliament are true. Logically, as you'll understand, he didn't tell them who's talking or the group he's representing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Replica from the Middle Rural and Sea Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u321	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, I believe that in the first intervention I have already specified what were the supposed to apply to this... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it seems that there are many who have not understood either by reading the organic law because they keep saying in many ways and in many forums that this is to put the professionals in jail. So sometimes it seems like it's necessary to clarify, because some people don't want to read the rules or some people don't want to understand when they say things. That's why I'm here to clarify it. [[Applause]] Look, uh... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u322	Can you speak to the advisor, Mr. Losada? It's just that it hasn't finished yet, and it was just, in case you didn't realize it. Counsellor, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u323	Yes, of course, because when you're talking and behind you you're hearing comments that you're trying to intervene to clarify, I don't know what. Because I also read the media and I'm reading what is said in the media and how the sector is trying to grow, so I come to Parliament, which is where I have to answer these things, and I clear it up. [[Murmurs.]] So, well, it is said that professionals are also affected by this amendment of the Penal Code and I say: this amendment of the Criminal Code is based on the fact that such theft is done without the enabling administrative title – which means that professionals already apply their administrative sanctions – on land subject to the granting or authorisation of seafood or aquaculture – dismisses recreational fishermen, who also have in the first term their punishment on the loss of the fishing licence – and with serious damage and effects on the sustainability of resources in these areas – which dismisses the child's half-breeding child as we have heard from many public representatives, of course, saying in the media. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-27-DSPG111.u324	Thank you, Counselor. The agenda is run out, the session is up. Thank you very much and good night.
