ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u1	Good morning. We continue the session with point 4 of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the events that occurred during a defiance in Aríns, in Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u2	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, has tabled an amendment to this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u3	Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the defence of the non-law proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u4	Especially good days to the members of the group Stop Defidations, who are witnesses to the debate, and it is very good that they are witnesses to see and know what will be said here on this matter. In the eviction of a residence in Aríns, the parish compostal, a few months ago –finals of 2014 – anti-disturbing units of the National Police Corps fired at the peaceful people who were concentrated in the place of protest for eviction. In addition to police violence, there were four detainees; one of them was the mediator of the conflict, authorized by both the family and the police. As could be checked through videos recorded in the place, the facts collected by the police statement have nothing to do with the event. In response, over 200 people were self-indicted in support of the detainees. The collective Stop Disappearances denounces that that day an unprecedented police action took place, since until that day he had managed to negotiate with judges, banks and administrations so that no family would be expelled from his home without an occupational alternative. There were pushes, blows, screws, insults, screams, IDs, arresting this mediator of what we used to talk about, and eventually a family more homeless. That was the result of that day. The police statement leading to that trial against these people was full of falsehoods. The fines for participants in this type of protests are multi-folded, and in the case of the Stop Defeats platform, especially the Mortgage Affected Platform. From institutions that are supposed to be all, protests are pursued and the demands of citizenship are criminalized, while the banks and political-financial elites that are benefiting from this social drama are no doubt continuing to support. In the face of social injustice caused by this so-called crisis and by governments and administrations that fail to carry out their protection work, and from this social emergency, some citizens, the most committed, are forced to promote mechanisms of defense and social denunciation to preserve the right to basic housing and supplies. They fight simply because no one has a roof, water or light. What our rulers really care about is not that we are living an unprecedented human and social rights retreat from the beginning of democracy, but that what really considers a problem the Government of the People's Party – in the Town Hall, in the sub-delegation, in the Unity of Galicia – is the fact that these people make use of the right to protest and to free expression to denounce it and speak against it. Collectives and people who do that are considered violent by the system, when they should be an example of behavior. Instead, for this decent system, the normal thing is to have thousands, millions of empty homes, and that during 2014 in this country, in Galicia, seven families were displaced daily, every day seven families in the street, that's normal. Here we tried to normalize something that is actually a systematic violation of human rights. Citizenship was once again very much in front of institutions in the defence of rights, it's the one who paralyzes defiances, who defended public health and education. The kidnapping of institutions by banks and great economic powers is threatening rights and democracy. This fight against evictions is no longer optional, it is not done by whimsical means. It's really people's lives are at stake. And when people lose their jobs, they lose their housing, they're going to stay in the street without public housing where they can stay and, in addition, they can have a debt for life, when people are thus expelled from the system, without leaving them any chance of recovery and having everything lost, those people react and the only thing left is to fight for their rights. I'm going to read how a qualified anti-defiance activist describes the work of his organization: "We're an organization that we work," she says, "in favour of collective rights. We push people's solidarity and self-organization, we're not assistants, nor paternalists, nor play Robin Hood. When someone approaches us, usually through some assembly that we do or through a simple e-mail or telephone call, the first thing we do is to find out if it's really a case of a single housing, if it's the usual housing, because we can find ourselves in a case of a second residence or a housing purchased for speculative purposes. Once we check this out, the first thing we do is involve the family affected in the process, and before the date of the defiance arrives, we're going to talk to the social services to make a request to suspend the trial, while trying to redeploy this family. If the judge has a letter of social services as if he's looking for a solution, they're usually sensitive and we're saving some time. Meanwhile, you press the financial institution and the Administration to get that person or family not to be defeated. After making such proceedings with social services and housing offices, always sharing the affected, then we make a public call to carry out a peaceful but powerful resistance to eviction, which basically means not to let go of the judicial commission and, if possible, to stop the defiance. We usually take advantage of the popular concentration for that same day to go to the Town Hall or to the District Council, taking advantage of the power to stop the eviction at that time to tell them the situation. Also taking advantage of the media resonance of preventing eviction, the bank itself can access to an alternative for that family.", etc., etc. "In cases where we couldn't get the bank to access the Administration we asked the Administration for a concrete solution." This is the description of the activity of these groups. That for us is self-organization, solidarity, seriousness, efficiency; many of the things that the Administration lacks, on the other hand. Because these movements have been and are much more efficient than their governments in the fight against evictions and, above all, they have the will that you don't have to solve this problem. The People's Party only acted with cosmetic measures when this drama became visible. And whoever made it visible was these activists, and that's why they deserve our recognition. On the other hand, the Government, far from focusing its policies on solving the violation of the right to housing – constitutional right –, guaranteeing it, implements a strategy of persecution and criminalization against those who fight for people's rights, and as a colophon the shameful law bites to guarantee impunity for facts like these. Free bar for repression. Systematically these people are harassed through complaints, often faked. Many and economic sanctions with a clear intention to demobilize and discourage them. We could make a list of the anti-defusion collectives in Galicia with the amounts of fines imposed on them; we wouldn't finish with the time we have. Shame on you! While those who caused this bad situation called a crisis, an increase in poverty and social exclusion, and the loss of rights remain on the street and with their money in tax havens on good notice. It seems clear that the ultimate reason for your attitude is to send a clear message to the population: no popular pressure can succeed in changing things to the detriment of the bank's interests. The bank and these powers cannot allow something like this to happen, simply because if popular mobilization achieves its goal, that would set a precedent for terrorizing them. If this is going to be the administration's response, the problem will end up being broken. These movements, in addition, are channeling a social problem, but if there is no solution to people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u5	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u6	...may end up doing barbarities, because the situation is critical. We believe that a healthy and healthy democracy has always active citizen movements, always vigilant and always demanding. The citizen must continue to fight to show that the defeatist speech that interests the economic and political power can be won can't be done. That is why in this initiative we are calling for an attempt to investigate the incident in Aríns, if there was a deliberately false statement, and to provide information on the magnitude and data of repression and sanctions against anti-defusion activists. We also want a country where there are no houses without people or people without houses. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u7	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mr Sánchez Bugallo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, too, to the people who accompany us from the rostrum. Last September 19th, they lived in Santiago de Compostela, and specifically in the parish of Aríns, scenes that unfortunately because they are very repeated in the Spanish and Galician geography set continue to produce indignation and to highlight the failure of the public authorities in giving a solution to the problem of housing. He said the rapporteur who preceded me in the use of the word that every day in Galicia seven families lose their usual housing, I think the data is correct and coincide with ours. Perhaps the nuance that would have to be added to that data is that the vast majority of today is not because of the mortgage's default, but because of the default of their income. Unfortunately, the prolongation of the crisis is causing this effect: to this day, the vast majority of the evictions are by default of income and not by the default of the mortgage. I say this because this obliges another slaughter: we all feel outraged by the attitude of a bank to a large extent rescued by public funds, and that at the same time that society has been generous with them by granting them those funds, they do not act with identical generosity towards those who owe them or those who are even affected by an essential element, which is also a constitutional right, as is the right to housing. I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that every time we see a family losing their home, every time we see a family especially if it has minors, a family especially if there are people incapacitated within this family – as was the case with the Arins family – that we see them evicting from their home, it is a failure of the public authorities and it has to produce the outrage of the entire citizenry. Unfortunately, the case of Arins is not an isolated case, it is not very different what happened in Arins from what happened before in the Coruña in another defiance, in which any Member of this House was present, nor is it much different from what happened later in Ourense a few months later. These are cases where we see how, following a judicial order – that is important – a judicial commission that is presented and the law enforcement forces that are sent, usually from the Police Intervention Unit, to enforce this judicial order. So far we agree with the proposal put forward by the AGE Parliamentary Group. Where there is a certain disagreement, we believe that this proposal is not properly addressed. The proposal is focused on the actions of the officials who intervened in the eviction. And, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say several things about those officials: First of all, remember that the bodies and security forces of the state are the most valued institution in which the citizens of Spain trust most. Above justice, above Parliament, above the monarchy or above the Church, the Civil Guard and the National Police are the most valued institutions in our country and they enjoy greater support and confidence from citizens. Secondly, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that security forces and bodies have a good reward for their sacrifices, for their public service spirit, but also for their institutional loyalty and for their discipline. They're not the ones who decide where to act or how to act, they're not the forces and security bodies that set the performance criteria or the performance protocols, nor the ones who give the instructions; there's a hierarchy, which is the Minister of the Interior, the Director General of the Police, the delegate of the Government; and they must comply with the orders and instructions they receive. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled a substitution amendment to prevent any approach, to place all the focus on those who are not responsible, but rather to the real ones who are responsible. And that's why we ask in our amendment, first of all, to go to the Central Government Council in Galicia and to request that all ministries be transmitted that the criterion of action in the face of a defiance of habitual housing, especially when there are minors or persons in a situation of social vulnerability, should prioritize attention to these people. And secondly, it is also addressed to the Central Government so that the Ministry of the Interior will review the protocols of action and instructions for these cases, prioritising and supporting mediation and the search for solutions for the people concerned, and avoiding, in any case, disproportionate use of the public force. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in this way we can focus more correctly on the problem and not pass on responsibility to those who are not responsible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u10	Good morning, thank you very much. Welcome to this full people you're upstairs. Spanish Constitution of 1978, Title I, "Two fundamental rights and duties", Chapter III, "Two principles governing social and economic policy", Article 47: "All Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent and adequate housing. Public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to enforce this right by regulating land use in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. The community will participate in the surpluses that generate the urban action of public authorities." This is the text. One of the many realities that contradicts him is the story of this Aríns family. Tomorrow, September 19, Carlos and Maria, parents of two children and children of a person with reduced mobility, will be defeated by the house they themselves started building. The way along is full of common places in the lives of people affected by this tragedy: unemployment, inability to cope with debts, which are increased by interest of delay, scams by lenders and even banking entities, and total and absolute disappearance by the State and Government in the face of speculation, wear and swindle. On the contrary, the Government uses the solution, which is known as state security forces, whose action materializes on September 19 in four riot vans that access the place of events to enforce law and order. How much more human rights and justice! The important thing is law and order. And even I'd say he doesn't care about the Constitution. These repression bodies, trained and prepared to act without questioning the orders they receive from the political leaders, carry weapons to enforce the questionable order and unjust law. This is how this kind of state violence works, directed and designed to suppress and penalize, if any, the excluded and also the dissidents. The identifications and arrests of citizens who peacefully assist the victims of speculation and savage capitalism are used to abound. You speak of terrorism – and you are right – that violence is a crime and that the path that must be taken is dialogue. But, ladies and gentlemen, isn't it violence to evict the people of their homes violently – worth redundant? Isn't it violence the indiscriminate burden on citizens whose only weapon is peaceful protest? Is it not violence the situation of a person who loses his job and cannot cope with his debts? It's the world backwards. The victims of the crisis are persecuted, penalized, defeated, excluded, and the causes and causes of the crisis are rewarded, amnesty, protected and, in many cases, impunity for their crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, will these policies – ask themselves, be done this reflection that I have now raised – the cause of the batacazo they have led in the Andalusian elections? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u11	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u12	Good morning, gentlemen. Today, we're going to talk here again about something that has a lot to do with injustice and has a lot to do with lying. The injustice of a system that is clearly made up of the bank, of the great business interests; a system that is trampling on fundamental human rights every day, the dignity of people, who see how they have no work, how they have no home, and how in that situation since the institutions, which theoretically represent them, not only did they support them, but they defend and make regulations that clearly want to continue giving priority to those spurious interests. But here, too, we are talking about a double lie: the lie that the People's Party has put an end to the defiances, which is on people's side, and the lie of how on many occasions power is being used to really continue to commit abuse. Abuses like those that occurred in Ariens; and when we talked about Ariens we talked about people who have names, who were Carlos, who were Mary, who were her two sons, or who were a dependent woman who was next to her. It is the abuse of such a debt of 35,000 euros, that a family had to resort to it in order to make their living in a district of Compostela, ends after the bank scam and after the scam of a lender becoming that this family owes 150,000 euros. And what's amazing is that in that situation there is no sensitivity either of the Government or of the judicial system to actually stop abuse and to protect the people who were suffering from this situation. We believe, of course, that this is another case, but it's not another case, it's a case that makes it manifest how there really is no sensitivity to real problems, and how the bodies and security forces of the state are not to defend the human rights of people, what they are at this moment, clearly, is to defend not only a hypocritical government and what lies, but also the interests of the bank. Here the spokesman of the Socialist Group spoke of the fact that police bodies are officials and do their work normally. Whoever we were in that defiance saw how there was a clearly aggressive attitude towards the people who were there solidally trying to defend a constitutionally protected right, and where there was clearly an important abuse in their position. But this case is one case that we already have examples of how some of the police are falsified. Mr. Jorquera may, if he wants the spokesman of the Socialist Group, pass a sentence in which he is told that the police, not the Ministry of the Interior, have forged a police report to try to incriminate him and to try to blame him. So we're not here with a fantasy. We're here talking about facts that happen, of fact that what they make manifest is how clearly there is an act of abuse of power. We know that behind this abuse of power are not only attested to as this, but other cases that are happening as well as in the case of Aríns, that administrative fines are being imposed on people who have passed there, who are coming to their homes, despite the administrative procedure so that those fines can be effective has already happened. I mean, what you're doing is you're acting to suppress people's solidarity, to prevent when these kinds of abuses occur people actually come to defend human rights, to defend the dignity of people, to our dignity as society. Because every time a person is homeless and a bank stays with that house, we're all assaulted. And whoever doesn't want to see it, of course, is blind. We are going to support this initiative with regard to human rights, with regard to the work being done from collectives such as Stop Disappearances and with regard to all the people who are there, because they do not want to look elsewhere while injustice occurs. And because we are clear that we are in a strong democratic involution, that cuts and aggressions to participation are also taking place in this Parliament, where Members and Members want to put us in a bite and where we are not allowed to express ourselves freely or in this institution. And so I end by saying that we support this initiative because we support dignity and human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u14	Thank you, President. Greetings to the people who accompany us. Mr. Bugallo, more than 800,000 evictions as a result of the more than three million jobs you have destroyed in the expressly defiance law, which is what is affecting most of those defiances that you are talking about because of the default of income. And now with this amendment you understand what Hannah Arendt so well described, and what Mr. Losada can explain to you: the process of "banality of evil", that security body officials act using the public force disproportionately because they obey orders. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What a cardboard, Mr. Bugallo! What a cardboard! I'm not going to ask him, as Edipo did, to tear his eyes off, I'm not going to ask him to do it, but I'm asking him for some responsibility. Yesterday a colleague told them that we didn't know if you were with the Statute and the Constitution or independentists, and today we don't know whether you stopped being Social Democrats to be the radical break-up left. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In relation, ladies and gentlemen, with the processes of defiance, in the issue of prevention, we must emphasize the agreement that the Galician Union signed with the Council of Judiciary and the Fegamp, which seeks to allow social services... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u16	...they can activate prevention measures before the defiance occurs, or the Reconduce Program, which seeks to prevent the opening of mortgage execution processes, and in those cases where the judicial process is already beginning to provide labor care, free justice and even an alternative housing. It is also very important that the Realox Program is affected by mortgage executions, which is specifically directed to those people affected by mortgage executions of their usual housing, directly assisting them in public promotion housing that are part of the housing park owned by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo. This program ensures the realisation of all applicants who meet the requirements. And so far through this program, all those applicants who had the right to live were assisted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it gives me the feeling that this doesn't matter to you, they don't care about the measures that have been taken to alleviate the damage to the evictions, and they don't care that the law has been amended to increase the protection of people with mortgage debts, or to eliminate the ground clauses, or to increase the guarantees and rights of mortgage holders. You only care about confrontation and undermine the image of the bodies and security forces. [[Applause]] But in relation to the actions of both parties during the defiance, let me remind them of something: police action is the result of a relief commission in compliance with a firm judicial sentence. During the same time, there were some altercations that resulted in a detention and an accused person. And, Your Honor, your organization is so ill, so tired is your society, so bored have citizenship, that they have to hide that they are part of your organization. And without failing to be true, you cheat and disguise yourselves. Not only do you fool this House and the media that work here, but you're also trying to cheat on citizenship. You don't defend general interest, not even social movement, not citizenship as a whole. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With this initiative you are defending the interest of your organization and its affiliates. In your intervention you omitted to mention that a prominent person in your organization had been arrested, prosecuted. A person from the central committee of the FPG, one of those parts that configure Anova, which then also form part of the Alternative Left Galeg and which now seems to form the tides. A person who has competed in the last municipal elections on that electoral list in Vigo is the same person who's been harassing social media officials for years. [[Murmurs.]] But you are also confused, Your Honor. No one was accused of preventing a defection or being part of a platform, no one. Because in our country no one is arrested for belonging to a platform or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u18	...political organization. That's why point 2 of his proposal lacks any sense, because there are no complaints about belonging to any particular collective or exercising a right, there are complaints about committing infringements and about violating the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u20	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u21	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Beers, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, what's the point of order? Yes, give a voice to Mr. Beers' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u22	The question of order is whether the uncontested information about the militancy of certain persons was given by the Political-Social Brigade of franchiseism, which is still being viewed within the PP. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u23	That'll be the case. [[Murmurs.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's not start, quiet, please. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beers, I call you by order. Mr. Beers, I call you by order. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I call you by order. I'm sorry, I call you by order and I can call you by order again. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. But at the moment I called him in order. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mr. Sánchez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u24	It is difficult to find qualifications to define the intervention of the spokesperson for the People's Party, spokesperson for a party whose president of the Council of Galicia maintained a friendship with a drug dealer for several years, about which he lied in this Parliament; a party that has millions of euros in accounts in Switzerland for systematically receiving money in B from companies that received contracts from these governments; a rotten party from above. [[Murmurs.]] An organization with behaviors like the People's Party comes here to throw shit on people who manifest themselves, spend their time, their effort, their knowledge of doing the work that you theoretically had to do from the Government of the Union and the Government of the State, and come here to throw shit on those people; to do and you more with the Socialist Party. Instead of confronting your responsibility and defending these people. But what programs are you talking about? Two thousand four hundred defeats in 2014, growing in 2013 and 2014. The royal program? He should be ashamed of his face. Forty-four realosed people. With 2,400 on the street, 44. That's your balance. Five houses that Mr. Feijóo said, that lie every time he speaks, made available to these people, only 44 were used. Where are those dwellings? In Coruña, 5,000 applications. How many people have been allowed to live on the side of the Galician Union? What answer are you giving? Who wants to hide here? I don't want to hide. My name is Anton Sanchez. I'm not going to live in politics all my life. Do you understand, Mr. Trenor? You've been funding for thirty years, with contributions, with contributions from drug trafficking... [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u25	That expression is removed, and is called to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u26	I'll come back... I'll go back to my job and I hope you'll be evicted because you're in control too... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u27	It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u28	Mr. Bugallo, it's a repressive system, of course it's a repressive system, and everyone performs their function, and the police also performs their function, and there's also someone who has forged a statement, and we have to say it. We know that the primary responsibility is for that government, for people who defend banks and speculative urban companies that finance them, but there are also executional arms that are policemen who are able to sign a false statement. And we have to say that, even though we know that inside the police there are also honest people who want to do their work and who want to do jobs to defend society and not to assault society. But you have to say it when it does, because if you're attacking people who are doing what public administrations should do. We're not going to accept the amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Maybe you didn't hear what I said, that the expression "black money" is removed, and so... yes, yes, yes, and so called to order. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes, that expression is withdrawn. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes, yes, in the context in which it was said. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I understand. Yes, I understand... I understand what he said, I understand what he said. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's right, I get it, I get it. [[Protests.]] The legal services can correct, I understand, I understand that, I understand that. [[Protests.]] So keep it that way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the process initiated by the Labour and Welfare Council for the formalization of new agreements between the Galician Social Services Agency and the municipalities for the management and financing of social services equipment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u30	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u31	To formulate this non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I also want to greet the people who accompany us in the rostrum, mainly the people who probably have worked hard so that there are no evictions and have just heard this sad debate in the first person. I want to apply a little sense of humor to what we have just lived and proposed to the opposition comrades and colleagues, Members and Members, that we should make a manual for the use of those expressions that have been removed during the exercise of our work as Members and Ladies and gentlemen... that we should do it for historical purposes, that when we read the minutes and the logbooks of this legislation we can understand what the social situation was and that expressions have been removed from the exercise since our opposition capacity, because it is absolutely incomprehensible. [[Applause]] Every step we take in this House makes it hard to understand what our work really is and what expressions, what problem does the People's Party have in the semantics of something that is commonly used and exists in summaries, how it can be the expression that has just been removed, that I'm not even going to name by chance if I've already withdrawn my word and if I'm asked to sit on my seat, get out or fly through the House. It's just... that we really live difficult times for any kind of sense – I don't say without common sense – that anyone out there has political rationality, which is one of the slightest rationalities. [[Applause]] I came today to explain also something that has to do with people and social services, and although it seems to be excessively abstract, something that affects many people in this country, such as the modification of the agreements between the Labour and Welfare Council and the municipalities, through the Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare, to the transformation into a Galician Social Services Agency. Interestingly... well, I'm not going to come in to explain what the Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare is, because from its creation in 2006 until 2009 it was a battle horse for the People's Party, because it was actually the first time in Galicia to make a map of social services, a map of services of equality and well-being, and that it was trying to sort what services were that paid attention to older people and to early childhood care. The truth is, Mr. Feijóo has already decided since 2009 that he will dissolve it. And that is carried out through a law of 2013, Law 14/2013, and then after a decree, Decree 40/2014, so the Galician Social Services Agency is created, where, in its second additional provision, they say things like that the Social Services Agency will assume in coordination with each council, with the most of the one hundred and fifty municipalities in the country that were part of the Council, on the date of the beginning of the effects of the new conventions that are formalized between the Consortium, the Agency and each council. Well, this way it's all normal. But it turns out that they now arrive on February 3rd, letters to the various mayors and mayors who unilaterally put a model of agreement into force. And what is the problem with the debate today? The Union unilaterally, for competences which belong to the Greek Government, which are not the competences of the municipalities, unilaterally and without any kind of dialogue with the municipalities, sends this agreement, where substantially increases the part that the municipalities have to pay, of the order of 20% per square, both of day centers, where they become 3,690 euros annually per day center square, and 1,500 per child school square. That is to say, the city council's spending is being increased. And third, in addition to the municipalities, they are completely excluded from making decisions in that new Galician Social Services Agency. I mean, they pay more, they can't negotiate directly with the German Government and they're excluded from the Agency's decision-making. Of course, we consider this situation to be absolutely serious. And after a month has passed, which was the deadline they had to issue those signed agreements, the situation is if you don't know, the agreements were not referred by the municipalities to the Consortium, the Fegamp didn't know these new agreements, the Fegamp asks to negotiate, the mayors and mayors are also asking that, by some chance, the Labour and Wellness advisor, who doesn't always talk to anyone, be mayors, mayors, collectives... with nobody, or with their own workers, have the delicacy, because they're going to pay those municipalities, to talk to them. And in this situation we want to ask four things that are absolutely logical: First, stop this process. It's a meaningless process that stops. Secondly, to negotiate with the municipalities this situation, to analyze the situation of each municipality, because the situation of a municipality like La Coruña or Vigo has nothing to do with the situation of a small municipality. And thirdly, in addition to something that the Council should be very aware of, it has services of very different nature. For example, children's schools. Since it now unilaterally decides to increase the contribution of the councils, I ask: if the People's Party has analysed this situation, are you aware that at this time different legal reports are already being made, where they make it clear that the children's schools are the competence of education, they are the competence of the Galician administration, and in no case are they the competence of the councils? In fact, what he was an education adviser was part of the transfer group of children's schools to the Education Council, and today he is a Member. At the Council of June 11, 2009, the decision – and I bring here the press note that hung up the Council itself – to make effective this transfer of the children's schools to the Council, to comply with the LOE, where it is clearly collected – and LOMCE does not modify the articulation concerning children's schools – that are educational competence and therefore not municipal competence. In any case, the only thing that would happen is that there would be municipal responsibility for monitoring, and the same thing that one can have competence with regard to primary education schools; we are speaking in the same sense, not with the competences of child education. I think we have this very clear, and I also work in different reports from the municipalities themselves and from the municipalities' intervention. In fact, if we look at Galicia's Social Services Act, and in particular Article 20, where everything that is the catalogue of social services is reported, there is no reference to children's schools at any time: social protection of persons, residential care, daily care, home support, teleassisté, support for mobility, maintenance of collective care, technical and instrumental assistance to enable personal autonomy, personal assistant service. Well, I wouldn't have time to report this whole portfolio of social services, but there's no reference to children's schools, because they don't fit into the social services framework. But in the face of this situation, what the Greek Government does with the pre-power – and I'm sorry to use this expression, which I don't know if it's going to be eliminated at this time or not – that characterizes it is to send this new model of convention for day centres and for children's schools without any kind of dialogue. In addition to creating the idea in the citizenship that, well, if you don't sign this agreement, you can go without the service. How can they be without the service? It is the obligation of the Government of Greece to provide this service. In any case, the Greek Town Councils... and here there are many people who have managed the Town Councils, and they know they've been put up as patches, because they weren't given the service on the part of the Government. Now that there is a network, in many cases privatized by the decisions made by Mrs. Beatriz Mato once she assumes the Consortium's administration, both in the day-care centres and recently in the children's schools, but that there is a network, which should be assumed by that network. You don't assume the network, what you do from the Agency is eliminate the ability to interact with the municipalities, that the municipalities pay more than they pay. And I think it's a tremendous mistake with the children's schools, because in this agency creation it was the moment, as it is already in the vast majority of the autonomous communities, that the children's schools were in education. Of course, one could think that administratively the regime that wanted to be managed within education, but today we can clearly say that Mr. Feijó's word must be questioned, because he said taxively – as I say on June 11, 2009 – "At this moment, children's schools are transferred to education." March 2015, not only are they not in Education, but they are unilaterally decided to be in the Galician Social Services Agency, which nurtures this service for each family, which pays 20% more than they paid in the registration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u34	...and it also clings to the municipalities. So the least they have to do is paralyze this process and that the future development of the Agency is done in collaboration with the municipalities, keeping the agreements of the local Covenant and at least having a minimal dialogue with the Fegamp. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We had already said so a year ago, about a year ago, that in the plenary of this Parliament we had a debate with the Labour and Welfare Adviser, and we told the socialists that we had to ensure that the creation of the Galician Social Services Agency and the transfer of the functions that had been developed by the Galician Welfare Consortium could not assume any greater economic burden for the municipalities, nor for the users, and that the councils also had to be represented in that Galician Social Services Agency at least as they were in the Consortium, which is that all the municipalities that had some residence, some day center or some school were in the assembly of that consortium. And we didn't actually cheat ourselves, so the Government of Greece did what we all feared: removing the municipalities from the joint management they had in the Consortium, lowering the representation of the Councils of Galicia to be all in the Consortium to have only five representations on the Board of Directors of the new Agency – which we still don't know how they will be chosen – to send out some agreements to sign the councils – as Mrs. Adán said – that they duplicate, triple and even quadriple the price in many cases of what they had before; for the same service, without increasing the service by the Council. And what is even more serious: throughout all this time, both Mr. Rajoy's government and Mr. Feijóo's government are constantly taking responsibility for social services councils, see the reform of the local government. The municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants have the only competence they have right now is to make reports to assess the situation of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, but, yes, they are obliged to finance much more money than they have usually been doing services to those who have competences. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tomorrow there is an assembly of the Galician Welfare Consortium in Santiago, to which all the municipalities are called, all the local administrations that have day centres, schools or residences. Stop this. We don't just tell them the Galego Nationalist Block, that they bring this initiative today, or the Socialist Party, that we've been announcing it for a year now, they're saying it to all mayors and mayors of all political colors. You cannot make the municipalities and users pay for their incompetence, their economic management in the field of absolutely disastrous social services, which they have been doing for six years, and they cannot leave the people who use these services to the point that a council can or cannot make that extra expense, for -- I insist -- the same service that has been done so far. We fully agree with the non-law proposal presented by Mrs. Adán, and we add two more questions -- let's wait for them to admit them -- which is what we have already defended in that motion about a year ago, from there by March 19 last year, which is that the creation of the Galician Social Services Agency, because the circumstances have changed. It's not the same as the legislator's intention in 2008, when the Galician Social Services Agency was created by law, it's not the same economic and social circumstances as the country in 2008 and 2015. And in addition to that law, it was not said that representation should be taken from the municipalities in this new body, and you decided to remove representation from the municipalities. So we have to rethink how the creation of this agency is being built, and we have to return it to the councils of representation, and we have to guarantee democratic plurality. It cannot be said that a representation of five representatives of municipalities will be made without explaining whether or not democratic plurality will be guaranteed, whether the weight per population, or the services they represent. And you have to assume the commitment that any modification of what today is the Consortium and tomorrow will be the Agency cannot assume any additional economic burden for the municipalities, because they're not increasing the services, neither the users nor the municipalities, and therefore you can no longer charge them for doing the same. And, of course, what can't be done under any concept is to remove the competences of the municipalities on the one hand and, on the other hand, to make them pay more to give a service about what they no longer have competence, because what they're saying – as Mrs. Adán said – the national abilities that work in the councils is that the mayors don't have because they sign that agreement. By the way, as we understand it, because those agreements were signed for many more years than this 2015 where we're going. So the logic would be that when you renegotiate those conventions when you've expired, it's when you've made this change, not now. What's going on is that the German Government's only concern with this is to pick up and drown the Town Councils again and again. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u37	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, there's not much left to say, I think it's more than explained, and there's also reasons with the People's Party, because it's not a question of reasons, of logic, of balance, of justice, of improving social services. It doesn't matter what you say, it's a political decision on the right, a right that uses the majority of parliament to hurt, to nullify rights, to punish, not to move forward, and to recover the future of our country, which is in a truly dramatic situation. Therefore, it is true that this transfer to the Agency is made without the Town Councils. It is done without the councils in addition at a time when the People's Party, at this very plenary session, we debate a bill of citizen participation, citizen participation without ever counting on citizens. It's all pure propaganda. How are we going to believe that they really intend to participate in citizenship if they refuse to participate in the councils, which are the first element of citizenship representation? How can they be, how dare they come here? They really think we're late, we're abnormal, what are we? Don't we have a brain to see that all they do is propaganda? Because his actions deny what his words say. It's a shame how our hair is taken, a real shame. But, in addition, it is irresponsible; an irresponsibility that will lead to a breach of the councils that add to this measure. It's also a scandal that even if I complain to the municipalities, without right or rebound, a debt that many do not agree with. It's a scandal that forces itself to pay more for the same service, much more when this service is a social service, a basic service for the quality of life of people, of the Greeks and of the Greeks, at a very serious economic and social moment, of extreme dependence on many families of social assistance. So you're the only ones who follow and are doing are policies to support your friends, businessmen who have the concessions, those who have all the privileges, to whom absolutely everything is allowed. And for that we just have to see, for example, what's happening today at the Povervisa Hospital, where the Board in 14 days of strike was unable to mediate a conflict. It's you, of course, the biggest enemies of the working class, it's you, I'm not going to say any more because you're going to pull me out, but it was really to put some qualifications that you deserve openly. But besides, it's also blackmail – because, really, blackmails also know – to say that whoever comes here, who accepts the terms of the board, will have 50% off the debt, a debt that's public money for everyone. But Junta decides that it will only reduce those who swallow the decisions of Junta, because the rest of the citizens who don't vote for PP and don't support the PP who pay for everything. That's the democracy of the People's Party. But it will also give them facilities to pay the other half they have left, but only those who accept, only the friends of the People's Party. Yes, the sun, Mrs. Prado, but that's your democracy. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal tabled by the BNG, because we must suspend the procedure opened by Wellness so that the municipalities would subscribe to the new conditions and open a negotiating period between the Union and the municipalities. I suppose the People's Party will vote again against this initiative, as it votes against any initiative it is and that it defends the interests of the most abundant social class in our country. Nothing else. It is very sad – you are right, Mrs Prado – to see how this government governs. Very sad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u40	Good morning to all and to all. The judge considers it proven that the People's Party has been illegally funded for 17 years. The former PP manager in Ourense talks about fictitious payments and irregular funding in the Ourense People's Party, and that was Mr Baltar, but also the President of the House right now. That's why it's best in this House you can't say "black money," because some people only recognize black money when they use it and use it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u41	Go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u42	...and that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u43	Mr. Fajardo, get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u44	I'm going to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u45	No, go to the question, which is social services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u46	I don't know if social services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u47	No, Mr. Fajardo, don't pull the blanket because I'm gonna call it in order. No, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] The sentence was in the context it was. [[Murmurs.]] You go to the point now, if you don't, I have to call it in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u48	I could explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u49	No, I'm not gonna explain anything to you. You go to the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u50	I'd like someone to explain to me what contexts were used for the fictitious payments that the Popular Party manager accused of.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u51	That wasn't the phrase. You, now go to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u52	Nothing else. It is simply clear that we are in Parliament where freedom of expression is concerned, democracy, parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u53	When you win the election we'll see if you manage to preside over Parliament and we'll be able to know. But it's all right, it's all right! [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] This provocation is fine! [[Protests.]] Now get to the point. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u54	It seems that democracy is a matter of winning or losing elections. Democracy is a concept of believing in democracy or not, not winning or losing elections. Winning elections doesn't determine what democracy can think of or not, democracy is what it is. And black money is what it is. It is clear that the People's Party knows more about black money than any of the neighbours in this country. But speaking of the Galaga Social Services Agency, well, of course it's a new scam of the People's Party. A People's Party of what six years ago from that contract with citizenship, that contract with citizenship that they said they were going to eliminate chiringuits and guarantee the social services of this country. Six years later, this Galician Agency, first, is investigating the darkness of its recruitments, in many cases hired people close to the People's Party, and, secondly, it does not guarantee that social services are provided on an equal basis in the Councils of Galicia, especially on a fundamental issue: the People's Party only understands social services as those that can be paid, when the reality is that social services should be universal and accessible to 100 percent of the citizenry. Therefore, through these new agreements that are being imposed on the municipalities by an absolutely blackmail method, it is being thought that municipalities that today are suffocated have to pay three times more for the provision of these services than they had previously paid. [[Murmurs.]] But in case all of this wasn't enough, all of this is given in a context where the People's Party is poking shellfish that are confiscating for social service users. Of these more than 300 centers that will manage the Galician Social Services Agency, confiscate users and also confiscate municipalities. So we're in a brutal retreat as far as the social services of this country are concerned, and in a situation where you've been running 35,000 people since you've been running, you've no longer received these kinds of benefits, and where social services are available only to those who can be paid, or because your county has resources or because they also have resources. All the others are isolated from this need despite the many – let's say – figures that sell us the People's Party of increase of squares, that are smoke and that we would like at some point to be specified where these squares are. Because the only document there is is a document that reports the municipalities where the squares are, but it doesn't say what the centers are or what the squares are. In fact, in that document there are municipalities that some of us know, but we are unable to find these squares because these squares don't exist. Of course, we have raised the need for that agreement to be eliminated which is being imposed on the municipalities, which begins the renegotiation with the municipalities, but above all that respects what is agreed upon, because these municipalities have contractual conditions and signed agreements that have not yet expired. So at the very least, you must maintain the conditions that were signed by these municipalities in their day, in a situation where the municipalities are being suffocated and have no human resources to meet their needs. In addition to that new situation, we are in an element that will make it difficult for municipalities to attend to their users. That is why in this sense we are going to strongly support the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block, we believe it is appropriate. But, above all, what we are considering is the need for the State to pay attention to the neighbours of this country, and for the State to guarantee the universality of social services, which today is in doubt because you are the only objective they have is the privatization and the derivation from public resources to private entities, which in many cases end up being so – as you are seeing in many research processes – those who pay for the campaigns of the People's Party. That's why I throw myself off until next intervention and I won't talk about black money because we can't talk about black money in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u55	Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today is not a day for humor and, of course, it is not a day to listen to certain issues that are being heard in this Parliament. Because speaking of democracy when Members and Members of this parliamentary group from the beginning of the legislative process have been listening to as if they were insulting us from day to day, we consider – and many citizens too – that this is not democracy. It will be their democracy, but, of course, that is not democracy. [[Applause]] There you are! [[Applause]] With regard to this initiative, I think it is essential to clarify some questions: First of all, the Galician Nationalist Block says the German Government unilaterally decides to eliminate the Galician Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare and to create a Galician Social Services Agency. Mrs. Adam, you know that the creation, the conversion of the Consortium into the Galician Social Services Agency was collected in a law, the Galician Social Services Act of 2008, a government of what you were part of. [[Murmurs.]] A government that wanted to convert the Consortium into a Galician Social Services Agency. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Integration, Mrs. Adam – because I don't know if they don't have the information or they come here to tell a different thing – was approved by most of the Consortium General Assembly. It was approved by the absolute majority of the representatives of the municipalities of Galicia, the absolute majority. All the steps towards the creation and implementation of the Galician Social Services Agency were consensual with the Fegamp previously, and the Fegamp informed favourably. Now we must listen to Members and Members of the People's Party for the blessings of the Galician Consortium. Look, it wasn't the People's Party that demonized the Consortium, it was the Socialist Party – and the rest of the groups were silent – which demonized the Consortium. And I don't want to repeat – because I think this is a very serious issue – what the Socialist Party considered to be the Galician Consortium of Social Services, at least a client network that you used. But now it seems that the Galician Consortium was the best thing that happened to this country. [[Applause]] And they're talking about the proposal for new agreements with the municipalities: why do the municipalities have to sign new conventions? The answer is clear: they have to ensure continuity of services through these agreements by the dissolution of the Consortium. It is not true that new funding conditions have been made unilaterally by the Board: June 2014, meeting of the Council with the Fegamp, where the model of collaboration with the councils is explained through the Agency; December 2014, the Council informs all the councils about the proposed agreement with the Agency. The proposal of agreement answers a municipal demand, and you know it but you don't want to tell it. So far, with the Consortium's agreement, the municipalities had to bear a percentage of the total cost of operation of the centres, regardless of whether their squares were occupied or not occupied; with the new Agency's convention the municipal approach will be unique and exclusively by the squares they are occupied. Up to now, with the Consortia agreement, the councils that have a social service centre had to assume the cost of the attention of the people who use the neighbouring municipalities; with the new agreement of the Galaga Social Services Agency, the municipalities will pay only the corresponding amount to the users of their municipalities. And in relation to the increase in economics, I can assure you that in no case will it be greater than it corresponds to the current management agreements, even in relation to children's schools it will be less. We are also talking about a framework agreement, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the particular needs of each case. And when they talk about the role of the councils in the Agency and the blackmail of the People's Party, there are differences, there are differences in the relationship between the Galician Union when the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare set in motion, and there is now a difference with the Galician Union and the relation to the councils for the Agency's implementation. It's very different, Mrs. Adam, the relationship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u58	Of course, they will have voice and vote through collaboration agreements and also through the Board of Directors of the Agency. And besides – I will repeat it again – approved by most of the councils represented at the assembly, economic approaches will in no way exceed the approaches that correspond to the current conventions, and the councils will have voice and vote. Of course, they have to clarify the charges they're making right now. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Adam. Excuse me, give a voice to Mrs. Adam's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u60	Thank you, President. I do not have many words either, Madam, listening to your speech. What a day we've been in! First, the Social Services Act of 2008, does any article or provision imply that the Consortium passes to the Galician Agency of Welfare Services? No, in no article! in no article, we can see him here in the law. [[Murmurs.]] You know it perfectly, there's no articles in it, you see the Consortium and the Agency; the Agency as a coordinator and the Consortium as a manager. They don't like it, but... no, no, it's like that... no article shows that integration. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You decide this integration through a law of 2013. Well, it's your decision, but it didn't appear in the law of 2008, in any of your articles. And if not, I appeal to any Member or Member to teach us whether it has happened to us. You decide, okay, you delete the Consortium. The assembly – and that's what I recognize – says that the conventions are unilateral. And they're unilateral, yes or no? Yes, they are unilateral because it was not decided at the assembly that dissolved the Consortium, nor did it bilaterally decide every council with the new Agency or directly with the Labour and Welfare Adviser. The counsellor decided and sent it by letter to each mayor and to every mayor. So unilaterally, there was no such relationship. And you recognize him at the end of the intervention when he says he'll be aquilated in every case. What we clearly say is what most of the municipalities in this country are asking for: to suspend the process; to start a negotiation through the Fegamp and the Galician Local Cooperation Commission; to ensure the maintenance of the conditions because there were municipalities that had signed them up to 2016, 2017 and 2018, and that they are changing their conditions. Or you, come on, we bring here the demands of the municipalities, and what you're telling us is that these mayors and mayors are lying about their changing conditions. As I've already told you before, there's also another problem you're going to face, because it's true that in the city councils you're telling those responsible that they are currently governing that they don't have to sign these new conventions. And, in particular, with regard to children's schools, the problem is double or triple, because there is absolutely clear that competition is in no case municipal. That's how you recognized him, even on a board of assembly. That's how the German Government recognized him. Therefore, the least they should do is vote on this initiative, which we urge is the institutional dialogue between the municipalities and the German Government to find the best way to manage a map of social services that we believe you – and we say it – are using as blackmail to the municipalities. Yes, we do. We will accept the amendment of the Socialist Party. We believe this is a very serious issue right now and with a lot of repercussions, but, Mrs. Rodríguez, what we don't accept in any way is that it's going back to 2008 to say that it was already being incorporated. By political sectarianism you dissolve the Consortium.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the continuation of the work of the parliamentary commission of research on the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their current situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u62	No amendments were made to this non-law proposal. For the defense of the initiative, Mrs. Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u63	Good morning, Mr. President. The truth is, on March 23 of this year, a car was handed over by a judge who is named Ruz that I am comin' into this House, particularly the People's Party bench, which he reads because I think it's quite exhaustive about how the People's Party works. Even I dare say that if it were the Socialist Party, I'm not saying that we were already on the pier, but if it were the Socialist Party, the recipient of that self dictated by Judge Ruz, today was the President of the Government, called and rightly nicknamed Mariano Rajoy, resigned. It is 190 leaflets, Mr President, which is worth reading, without a doubt. So, as I've been very correct in ways, I hope this is kept in record. And I say that they certainly deserve the resignation of the Presidency of the Government, they deserve the resignation of Mr Rajoy. And even I dare say that the Galician People's Party, Mr. Feijóo, also deserves not to know whether the resignation, which is certain yes, but, without doubt, explanations, and I would deserve to come before the House to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks why they refuse to explain what happened with the liquidation of our country's boxes. Mr. Feijóo has quite a failure behind his back, the first, the public debt. He's the worst manager we have in the history of our country. He mistook our country in numbers. I'm letters, but in numbers. He, throughout the history of Greek democracy, owes our country. He's got another serious ejaculation: the German industrial system has been loaded. He's got a third spindle. There are very powerful companies, for example Pescanova, which are also dangerous friends of Mr. Feijóo, which one day should report here in this House. And it has a fundamental asset: that it was the only president who has laminated, charged, this country's own financial system. This is your face and this is your balance. Indeed, when we arrived at this House there was such social pressure that when we presented a joint collective initiative by two opposition groups – Alternative and Block – they were forced to initiate an investigation commission on what had happened in the disaster of the Greek boxes. The fact is that this was a democratic scam for the men and women of this country, and with quite a noise they adopted a motion for a resolution in that important debate of the nation's state that they repeatedly fail. This group – as the President of the House and the President of the Commission know well – actually presents a letter every 15 days to resume the work of the so-called Box Research Commission. Why? Well, for something very simple. Because what has happened in this country is that this crisis is not the responsibility of the common people. This crisis is a scam in which the direct cause came from the financial sector and also from the managers – defended by the People's Party – of the Greek boxes. So what do we want? In some ways, we want a political process to investigate the responsibilities of our country's bank and who helped that bank in Galicia. We also want to know fully what Mr Feijóo's political responsibility was. Let's remember the Box Research Commission, let's remember what a very relevant friend of Mr. Feijóo said: "If you fail to merge the yellow boxes, you fail Alberto Núñez Feijóo." Alberto Núñez Feijóo has failed, there is no documentation we have asked for from the Alternative Left Galicia – I insist – every 15 days – to give us Mrs Fernández Currás's administrative file to tell us why we should accommodate the merger of the boxes. There was no technical report, they lied!, no audit, no KPMG or nothing. Despite paying nothing more and nothing less than a million euros, of pesititas, of the Greeks and the Greeks, no report recommended the mergers of the boxes, and what we live was absolutely an amazing thing, in which, since the publication of the 1996 rule, they are leaving the control and responsibility functions they had with regard to the Greek boxes. So we are in the face of a very serious process in which, once again, Juan Pueblo pays. We socialize the losses and privatize the benefits. We privatized the profits when Mr. Feijóo just did what he did. Although all the economic operators told him that it was not time to sell the boxes – well, Novagalicia Banco – despite that, indeed, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, defending that the rotation door for after the autonomous elections, evil Newgalicia Banco for 1,086 million euros – yes, delivered as a gift to the private bank, to Mr Escofet – of which they only paid 600 million euros. But this, of course, costs us 9,000 million euros, but 4 billion euros minimum of passive credits, but everything that reaches the preferences – which also pays Juan Pueblo, and they still don't charge – and here nothing happens! And they do not sell Evo – that subsidiary we have, Spain, in the world ahead – for 80 million euros. We'd like them to be Bankia, to be ready. That at least, if you want to privatize the Greek financial sector, if you at least want to do so, you've done as Bankia, who wait at the right time, because it was clear that it was a real gift to who was doing the business. Above all, we sincerely believe that the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to know that it has happened – I insist – with the Greek boxes, because what if we are intuitating with this failed investigation commission, with the documentation that has passed through our hands, is that the action has moved between an absolutely criminal act – i.e., criminal wrongful – or even tragic, or a tremendous political irresponsibility. Besides, we can also see how there was a bipartisan pact, by the big parties from Madrid, to load the Greek boxes with rules. It was clear that they wanted to privatize the boxes, and, above all, they wanted to also undertake a concentration process – as called for by the financial oligarchy – of the bank capital, which, by the way, were very cleverly able to do. And what we could also see in the failed investigation of the boxes is that, in fact, the yellow boxes were devoted to everything but what they had to do. They were eager to do succulent business. They've acted like real hijackers. Succulent business that had nothing to do with the reality of the yellow boxes. We and I would like to know – as we asked directly in this investigation of the Greek boxes – who was the person who made the decision to hand over public money to Fadesa. What do you have to do with the yellow boxes with the delivery of public resources to Fadesa, or Astroc, or, for example, many of those companies that appear marked – real estate – in the car of Judge Ruz. What does the Greek financial system look like, boxes, doing speculative business and real estate business? But that's more, we could also see some succulent business, for example, that has to do with Pescanova. It must also be said that there is a code – you know? – in the car of Judge Ruz, a specific code of the Pescanova company, which says as the car says, actually: "businesses are fulfilling and continue to pay religiously per month." Tell him the car, I don't say it, Mr. President. Rigorous, literal reading. So we believe that we are faced with a real scam, and the Greeks and the Greeks are paying, first, the loss of the yellow boxes, which could be directly directed to creating productive tissue and affecting the real economy, which is what they had to do. And secondly, it's also a democratic scam because people have the right to know. Why don't you want the truth to be known? What's the matter? Why don't they resume their jobs? We know that, because there are political responsibilities; because it is essential that you meet here with legislation and attend Mrs. Marta Fernández Currás and attend Mr. Fernández Ordóñez. Because they will remind you – and we have asked you from the Alternative Gaga de Lefta – that the written testimonies given between them were absolutely contradictory, they were absolutely contradictory! So we understand that the Greek people have a right to know what happened because we're out of boxes. We have an indictable debt that Juan Pueblo pays, and, of course, then we stick with the cuts and with a policy of economic suffocation for normal people, for workers and workers. Actually, now you have a problem. As Professor Monedero says, they have a deep problem, and they actually want to continue ruling and attacking the people, what they don't know is how to keep their votes. That's what they're doing. So, we understand that since it is very easy to ask them to do so in the GNP, we simply ask that the research work of our country's savings boxes be resumed, as simple as that; and we suppose that since there is nothing to hide, and as you are on the people's side – as we hear in the intervention of the previous spokesperson – will vote favourably the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u65	And why? Because we want to know what happened. Secondly, we want to know the responsibilities of the Banco de España. We want to know what he did to the Council of Galicia since a rule was published in 1996, which did not take its responsibilities to know what was going on in them. Finally, we want to know why the role of savings banks has been denaturalized, why did they do business that had nothing to do with their...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u67	...nature. That is why, as the majority group has not tabled an amendment, I believe that they will vote in favour of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u69	Well, I want to start by saying that the Joint Group will support this non-law proposal, as it can be no less, but we doubt very much that the People's Party will support this initiative, because neither the People's Party nor the financial power are interested in investigating what happened to the Greek boxes. Not one of them is willing to expose himself to the common people. That's why they killed the investigation committee. We are increasingly the citizenship that we have the conviction that the spoliation of the saving social entities is not only done from inside the boxes. Neither the executive scandal pay nor the privileged and reckless use of creto explain the liquidation of centenarian entities, no matter how reprehensible – that they are – the behaviors of directors. There was – and we are convinced of that – a combined action of political power with both parties of concerted alternation, because the interest of the financial oligopolis had to get the entities of social capital, which in our country accumulated more than 40% of the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks. This goal was marked long before the real estate bubble broke out, according to the alternation parties and privates like the still indemnity former governor of the Banco de España. In the early years of the century, we sold the professionalization of box managers and the adaptation to the market as medicine to modernize them. They encouraged the boxes to act like banks and to deviate from the genuine ends by what they were born. Already before the crisis they pushed the merger race, which accelerated with the first symptoms of the financial crisis. Reds and blues of the old regime disagreed in whether mergers should be with one another, whether cold or hot, but they all rushed to apply the medicine that would produce great miracles. Soon the solvency measures began to change, but always with greater need for boxes than for banks. International audit firms also obtained million-dollar contracts for jobs that set values that in months or weeks are reduced to the tenth or one hundredth. Audits that could not be public and that we could see the Members and Members of this Parliament not without problems and without conditions, as if they were... as though the criminals were the Members who were looking at the great feats of the leaders of the Greek and Spanish boxes and politicians. But what I don't think is that it serves to know who stole our German savings. Turning your directors into exclusive scapegoats is neither the solution nor real, they are not the only ones responsible for this deliberate flight of the Greek financial system. The responsible managers must pay, but there must also be and must give themselves the political responsibilities of those who have let themselves escape the opportunity to acquire for the Union and for the Greeks and Greeks the bank resulting from the defeat of the boxes, which in the first year has already benefited more than what it cost, and which will also be paid in comfortable terms. What interest did Mr. Feijóo serve? Of course, not the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. In the Committee on Research, we will never know that political responsibilities have occurred or will never be resolved because the People's Party will prevent them. And it will prevent it just as it has prevented and continues to prevent an investigation into the Angelis accident. Yesterday there was a very serious accident, an accident that struck us all, an accident about what would be an investigation. In English, no. In England the victims only have a lie as an answer, and the president of the Government of Greece and the group that supports him prevent them from having the truth about what happened to their families, about the reason for their death, and are preventing them from clearing up the political responsibilities that led to that accident and that can lead to more accidents. And, of course, if with something as tremendous as that of Angelos prevents an investigation, in the Greek boxes, where you are involved in this fraud, much more. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. "The Galician Parliament agrees as a resolution the continuation of the Research Commission to analyse and evaluate the economic and financial developments of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of its current situation, with the aim of analysing the new documentation provided to the commission, which shows the existence of machining practices by some of the senior managers of the old boxes to personally enrich the cost of causing serious economic harm to the entity. The Commission shall assess any new document or data provided on illicit enrichment practices. Even so, the Galician Parliament agrees as a resolution that the Commission will have to complete its work with the issuance and approval of the corresponding ruling before it concludes the current part-session." Ladies and gentlemen, I have just read out the resolution adopted unanimously by the plenary session of this Parliament on 9 October 2014 in the framework of the General Policy Debate on the state of the Greek nation. 9 October 2014. It was October, November, December, the session ended. It's been January, February, March, and the boxing board doesn't know. That is what the Commission Presidency, which is currently holding the presidency of the Greek Parliament, has had to set up a room to be able to consult – with the restrictions already known – the documentation provided by the BNG on the machining practices of some of the senior managers. Thank you, it is well-born to be grateful, even though the BNG Parliamentary Group has previously submitted a copy of all this documentation to all parliamentary groups. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the last appearances in the Commission took place in July 2013, and almost two years after the Commission nothing is known. That is what the People's Group has to do with this Parliament. That is the reliability you have when you come to agreements and meet them, because there was a clear resolution of this Parliament. And that's his way of understanding transparency. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, allow me to refresh some data. Since 2009, the credit granted in Galicia, in relation to deposits held by banks in our country, has dropped by 41%. Since 2009, the weight of our credit over the total of what is granted in the state has dropped by almost 20%. The credit granted in Galicia is already only half of what would be our share of population. And as much as last December, the credit award in our country went back to 0,07%, the gap between the volume of savings that exists in Galicia and the credit that is granted continues to increase. Galicia is on the line of the State in the granting of credit, both in the credit ratio with respect to the volume of deposits, and in the credit ratio in proportion to the weight of the population of Galicia over the entire state population. And it turns out that, while this happens, the entity that manages almost half of our savings, the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks, was given to a Venezuelan bank. After injecting 9,000 million euros of public resources for its sanitation, above all, as we reported in the last control session, the State paid to place it to a private operator, because the guarantees and public coverage with which it was sold are far higher than the official purchase price. Not only will one euro of the 9,000 million destined for its sanitation be recovered, but we will still pay the buyer. The conclusion is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you have kidnapped the Commission so that it could not draw practical and operational conclusions and now we can only talk about facts already completed. You have kidnapped the Commission from waiting for the winding-up of our financial sector, for the real looting of the taxpayers and for the spending of the policy on our savings, for the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks. For these reasons, the BNG Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u72	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u73	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of a parliamentary group which is part of that which Mr Puy said yesterday that it was the worst of the caste. I feel absolutely satisfied with the military in a party that the right of this country calls us caste. It's good that they have copyright from other parties which, of course, seem to slide from one side to the other. Of course, this party has done much to deepen and strengthen the state of well-being in this country, Spain and Galicia. So I repeat again, absolutely proud to be part of the worst caste. I am also sorry that Mrs Rodríguez Arias is not here, that she was very offended by the insults that have been made since the opposition to the Members of the People's Party. We are here to talk, of course, about the Committee on Boxes, but basically about democratic quality and the role of parliaments in democratic societies. I would like to remind the President of Parliament that he is the President of all Members, not only the President – well, in any case the Vice-President of this Parliament – of the Members of the Party who won the elections, because it gives me the feeling that conceptually the theme 1 of Political Rights, with which Mr Puy welcomed us yesterday, seems to have not greatly benefited from it by Mr Santalices. [[Applause]] The Committee on Boxes in this Parliament was systematically a massive deception. I must acknowledge the goodwill and naivety of the Socialist Group when we vote in favour of the work plan. And I recognize as a spokesman in that commission the absolute – I would say political stupidity, political self-stupidity, of thinking that the People's Party would play clean. The truth is that one sometimes – I suppose it's part of that Christine education accumulated for years thinks of the goodwill of individuals, and sometimes it's wrong. And I start with two headlines. The first one is from Mr. De Guindos, two months ago: We're not going to spoil Bankia, it's an asset that's going to be worth more and more. And the second is a month ago: The Spanish Bank at the head of profitability in Europe. This is the context in which the public and private financial system of this country develops. Indeed, Mr Jorquera has already read the resolution adopted unanimously. I'd like to know exactly if you're aware of what they're voting for at some point, what they're voting for two months later, what they're voting for two months after those first two months, because, I insist, you voted for exactly five months ago that this box commission was put in place again. By the way, I think there is a dimension that goes further – seeing the events that have taken place since July 2013 – of the responsibility of managers and that it has to do with the political dimension that took this case, and we would like to see those who rule with an absolute majority in Galicia, who rule with an absolute majority in Spain, who have the Presidency of the European Commission, tell us something about why the Greeks put 18% of our GDP to rescue the Greek financial system, while the Spanish set has put – exclusively – 10% of GDP, and that bank that paid 400 million euros in the first year has just got a benefit that is higher than the total cost of the operation. I hope, and the Greeks and Spaniards understand that in any basic reasoning of an economic character they expect an answer from governments that have an absolute majority of why that gift to Mr. Escotet. Because there's no other name, it's not possible to call it otherwise, it's not possible to hide, just like you did with the KPMG audit, that Mckenzie report that said Abanca would systematically lose value. Listen, then Mckenzie's closing the kiosk, because they're incompetent, or in that report it happens exactly the opposite of what they say. Because I repeat again, and I want to insist because sometimes it gives me the feeling – and, of course, with all political respect – that they are not fully aware of what they are voting for. He sold a box, a bank at that time, for 1 billion euros to a person, to an entity; he paid 400 million euros in the first year, and he had a profit of 1 billion euros. I don't know if he's called an astral conjunction, or it's really true that FROB managers are incompetent and Mr. Escotet is an eagle in business, but the truth is that someone should give some explanation. And, unfortunately, what is true is that Mrs Fernandez Currás, who, on the other day in an indecent way – in political terms, Madam President – said she hoped that the card issue would be dealt with in the Commission which is developing in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u74	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u75	You've got to have a bite! You've got to have a bite!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u76	Mr. Losada, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u77	And President Feijóo also said – missing the truth, not lying – that the Commission... of course. [[Laughter]] No, lie no, miss the truth. He said the Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u78	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u79	...of the boxes if the People's Party's proposal had been made. Look, no, the Socialist Party has been asking for it since the previous legislation. So, I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u81	...the truth is a little important in politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. People's Group. Mr. Farinas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. This initiative is now being presented with the debate to resume the work of the Committee on Research on Greek Savings Boxes, and it is done precisely by the AGE Parliamentary Group, which itself qualified as observers when the work of this committee began. Those who present this initiative today are those who came with the only intention of demonstrating everything that was undisputable. For nothing they were interested in the boxes or listening to anything that was said in all the appearances that took place. The only thing they were looking for was to blame the People's Party for everything, to blame Mr Feijóo for the compensations and wages of the box managers; to say that the fusion of the yellow boxes was an invention of the People's Party, which would be given away – said some voice – to friends for 50 cents. They failed at all, ladies, they failed at all. And they now demand to resume the work precisely those who refused to work in the Committee of Inquiry; those who did not even appoint a representative to follow the work of the Presidency; those who did not wish to question many of the representatives who had been present in the Commission; those who also refused to question in writing those who did not want to appear physically in the Committee of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, you have given up working in the Phoenicia; a presentation that continues to develop your work; a presentation that is still in force, of which AGE is not part and which will not be part of your arrivals when you elaborate the dictation. As they are part of other approaches which are being made by the rest of the parliamentary groups, which are part of that presentation, and which will be incorporated into the final dictatorship of it. Ladies and gentlemen, for the years of the history of the Committee on Savings Boxes the only idea which the AGE Parliamentary Group will give is that of disobedience and contempt which they expressed before the Commission starts, and of filtering documents reserved for the media. That is the responsibility of members who continue to request information reserved for the various high institutions of the State. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u84	Mr. Losada, Mr. Losada! Mr. Losada, you have no more words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u85	And they will also keep track of the contradictions that are once again manifest today. On the one hand, they asked us at the time to finish the dictatorship, to elaborate the dictatorship, today they ask us to resume the work. If we had heeded the first of their requests, today they would not be incorporated into such important matters as the irregular concessions of cretins, or even the fraudulent or supposedly fraudulent sales that occur, of immovables, within the savings boxes, to the woman of some of the former directors. We are also told that today we are violating the work plan; a work plan that – I repeat, although already said here – was adopted unanimously after a transaction between the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Unanimously, ladies and gentlemen, and AGE too, which seems to want to take off today. A work plan that has been fulfilled and continues to be fulfilled, and that all 45 visitors have performed their role. But there were parliamentary groups that did not exercise their powers to question them and to ask them the different issues that were before them. Ladies and gentlemen, a work plan with 30,000 sheets that brought the Galician Union with absolute transparency, which did not do the rest of the administrations and high bodies, as shown in the dossiers 44 and 46, as happened with the Banco de España or with the European Commission, signed by Mr Almunia. It's very nice to come here, Mrs. Díaz, to say all the things you said. I also agree with you that responsibilities have to be cleared, but that's not up to the research committee, the responsibilities rest with other bodies, to which documentation which is supposed to be fraudulent. But the Commission was useful, to know that there was a maquiably designed plan by the Central Government to liquidate and appropriate the Greek savings boxes on other boxes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u86	Finish it, Mr. Farinas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u87	...–Finished, Madam President–allies to our territory. And, Mrs. Díaz, I really liked you saying that the model that follows was Bankia. That's what you're going to have to tell all the preferenceists after the platforms have been dissolved and in Bankia they're not able to recover their unscrupulously stolen savings. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fariñas. Replica, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u89	Mr. Farina, either you are sick of absolute ignorance, or you don't even read the press, because you look... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u91	Calm down! It's okay, Mr. Farina, it's okay. Look, you just read Mr. Losada what Mr. Guindos said. And what Guindos did was actually defend the possibility of not selling Bankia as Mr Feijóo did, giving gifts to his friends. So you're wrong about the truth or you're sick of absolute ignorance. I really liked what he said, because, indeed, we... Look, this gentleman here, whose name is Anton Sánchez, and but this lady, who is a voicer, attended – as you know, unless she also wants to fake the truth – the entire Box Research Commission. I want to remind you, Mr. Farinha
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u92	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u93	...to review the intervention of a chair the proposal of this group, called the Vilarino Angel, one of the best appearances. And I want to remind you, to review it, what this loudspeaker told the two top managers of the boxes, that we call them delinquents, Mr. Flares, of the investigation of the boxes. So of course, therefore, don't lie. But look, Mr. Farina, the grave thing is that you didn't explain here because you have no arguments, because you have to defend that master, your boss, who isn't present, has to defend him. You have no arguments and you have no partridge, Mr. Farinha. Look, this is called a tucocho, it's a tucocho! You've made a real fraud, with the popular party's convolence. KPMG's audit said something very relevant that she knew Mrs. Fernández Currás and the head of ranks, called Alberto Núñez Feijóo. He said that to do that operation we had to sell 679 million euros in preference, Mr Fariñas. You knew perfectly well what you were doing, and, despite knowing it, the people of our country cheated on the Greeks and the Greeks. By the way, of course, they recovered more in Bankia than in Galicia, Mr. Farignas. [[Murmurs.]] But look, more things, Mr. Fariñas. In fact, we're faced with a great democratic scam, a big scam that makes them suck.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u95	The yellow boxes were loaded to meet this bank concentration process from above. By the way, when you told the Socialist Party that from above there was a plan to liquidate the Greek boxes, of course yes!, in which you voted in favour of the People's Party, in which you voted in favour of the People's Party! And indeed, Mr. Farinhas, thanks to the work of the Alternative Left Galeg, we put light and tachygraphs, we leaked the documents not only to the press... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u96	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u97	...but we filter them into Greek society because they have the right to know what happened to the Greek boxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u98	Quiet, please, and finish, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u99	So I understand you're going to vote against it because you're an accomplice to your row boss. Compliments, Mr. Farinas, and therefore responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Please be quiet, please. Please be quiet. As was announced, and since I am about 12 a.m., between the two non-legislative proposals, it seems to me the appropriate time, as it was announced, and within the framework of the national struggle decreed on yesterday in memory of the victims of the Alpine air accident, I ask their lordships and all the people who are in the guest gallery for a minute of silence in memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u101	Thank you very much. We continue with the development of the agenda, with the last of the non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialist of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Beatriz Sestayo Doce and Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the approval of a framework convention of the firemen of Galicia, as well as the status of the fireman
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u102	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u103	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the word "Batatriz Sestayo Doce" of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u104	Thank you, President. Good day to all and to all. Greetings to the public, especially to professional firefighters who attend this debate; a debate that I mean is an initiative in which the Socialist Parliamentary Group is simply the voice of firefighters, who cannot attend this forum. We have just made a minute's silence for a terrible episode, which emphasizes security as a fundamental right contained in article 17 of the Constitution. It's just a day today to remember the importance of people's safety, the importance of emergencies, the importance of legislation, legislation, which is responsible for protecting people, the integrity of people, as well as, secondly, of goods, and even the protection of the environment. Indeed, even today in Ferrol – and I want to express solidarity – a worker died from an accident. The safety of people, ladies and gentlemen, is a major issue on which this Parliament cannot wait any longer to regulate in a solvent manner. Indeed, Law 5/2007 of 7 May 2007 of emergency in Galicia – and look, ladies and gentlemen, on which date we are, today we are on 25 March 2015 – established a series of forecasts for this issue to be relevant in Galicia, to be a priority, and to establish an integrated emergency protection system. Indeed, Article 1 of the Emergency Act itself established prevention as a necessary system, risk prevention, as well as to protect – as it said – the integrity of persons and goods. It is a law – although sometimes it does not seem so – applicable throughout Galicia, which is obvious in a Welsh law, but when we came to certain appearances of the emergency director we saw that there seemed to be territories that were isolated from the application of a law. Besides, for the whole emergency system, something they are undoubtedly not doing, is being breached by the Government of Galician Union, is being breached by Mr. Feijóo and is being violated by the Vice President of Galician Union. But it is also that they are failing to comply with a valid law, because it is not repealed, which should be developed within a number of deadlines which are established, according to the specific issues of the law, well within a year, well within three years. We're talking about a law of 2007 – I insist – that is vigilant, not derogate from the Government. Under Article 2 and in accordance with the rules set out criteria for professionalism, among others, the principles governing emergency legislation, as well as prevention, continuity, transparency, etc. Within the transitional arrangements, it establishes the need... and we're talking again about the legal text we should. In fact, it is sometimes strange to have to come to this Parliament and insist that we comply with a valid law, and that the Government abide by a binding law. Well, we're in a transitional arrangement, and in addition, establishing that a system of approval should be imposed between the Galician emergency system. Well, if this is the normative framework to which we all have and all subject ourselves – not only citizenship but the Government, which is the first one to ensure compliance with the law, and I do not want to forget the constitutional mandates and the statutory mandates that are provided for in respect of the duty to comply with the laws – the fact is that this regulatory framework is going against the real situation; and the real situation is an absolute disappointment of the emergency system. The reality – not the virtual – with which Galician emergency professionals find themselves is the disunity between, on the one hand, the public firefighters system – which we defend and defend as a socialist representative from this forum – in the few places where they are being kept – by the way, abused and taken out of the media – and, on the other hand, private systems, indirect management systems – which they like most to call them that way. Interestingly, indirect management also turns out that they are not coordinated with each other, but they depend on the company's will and depend on total freedom on the company, as if a business system were concerned; see effectiveness, as it is done to earn more money at the cost of public security, at the cost of constitutional rights and at the cost of the precariousness of the professionals providing that service. But in addition, they continue to proliferate other operations and remain uncoordinated with the issues of civil protection and GHG, a clearly cacical system that simply seeks to satisfy governments of their own color for benefits that nothing has to do with the system of emergencies that is collected in the law and that abounds in this system of chaos that has been seen in accidents – mentioned the terrible of English, but also in many others who are, who coincide and often star the firefighters of our community –. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are before a law that must be fulfilled and we are before a reality that does not comply with that law. There are cases we have reported in committees, contrasted, proven and documented on this matter. And so it's about this initiative to agree to the reality that firefighters are working on with the legal reality they're in, in view of the virtual reality that you're showing in this commission. Many times this parliamentary group has been accused and many initiatives have been rejected on this issue. The difference from what my colleague Abel Losada used to explain to me about the fact that the People's Party once again voted in favour, again against and again in favor... well, and so, chaos, the fact is that in this case – let it be said – they were consistent, they always voted against the Socialist Party's initiatives; that is, they voted against fulfilling the law, which is for the annals of history. But the truth is I've been reviewing the logbooks, I've been reviewing the minutes and videos of the committees to see which were the reasons they justified – even Vice-President Rueda, which is regrettable that he is not here on a matter of such vital importance and his competence – to reject these initiatives from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Well, among the reasons – which does not give me time to explain – they say that we point out many initiatives that are impossible to comply with all of them, that it is necessary to open a debate, that... well, at last, a whole series of questions which are obviously used as false arguments to argue, to stand up for failure to comply with the law, but which have served as an argument both to Vice-President Rueda – whom we will see today voting – and to the different emergency officials and those responsible, their lordships, of the Commission 1a. That's why we have two clear, clear proposals today, within the initiative and agreed with the fire unions, in which there is unanimity, and we are going to follow the vote; you have no excuse that they have already argued either in full or in commission. And these initiatives are trying exclusively, ladies and gentlemen, to comply with the law. If you vote against the initiatives put forward by this parliamentary group, you will be voting against the Emergency Act. I think they know the responsibilities of disregarding a law, I suppose they will. That's why I want to make it clear what the requests are. First, that action is immediately exercised for the approval of a framework convention for firefighters in Galicia which at least approves the professional conditions of firefighters in the indirect management park and the second activity. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the second activity follows the most extreme precariousness and that, in view of what some Members said in a committee, there are many activities that can be carried out by professional firefighters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u105	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u106	...within the iodine of prevention –the end, the president –, training and other issues that would perfectly enter into the second activity. The second question is a legal obligation, in the same way: to approve the firefighter's Statute within a year after the active participation of Galician firefighters. We believe that we cannot approve a fireman's status without the eager participation of the citizen and above all without the eager participation of the professionals who play their lives to keep our entire lives. Nothing else for this first round. I look forward to the unanimous support of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u108	Thank you, President. The situation of the Galician fire department, of which Galician Union holds, is a palpable failure. In 2013 and 2014 the vessel overflowed with the firefighters' strikes and the succession of cases of disorder that call into question the outdated, cacical and inefficient political model of the People's Party. The camera can take advantage of to promote a fire department and public and efficient emergency service today. Firstly, emergency management in Galicia should be guided by technical criteria to distribute and organize emergency services: rationalization, geographic characteristics of the territory or potential risks. With this government, and according to the report of professional firefighters, the protocols of actuating and mobilising the media respond to partisan and economic interests rather than objective criteria, as may be the proximity to the emergency. To check it again, I said it in another plenary. All we have to do is review the event a year ago in the shrine of Muxia, the accidents in the Monforte area – attended late between the Sarria group – or the last fire on an industrial ship in Brión. Even so, we must consolidate the professionalization of emergencies in Galicia, and for this it is essential that the fireman's statute and order the GES, private companies and volunteers. The working precariousness of firemen is a very poor and scarce personal means that in practice it is not able to deal with the disasters of certain dimensions; a precariousness that poses a serious risk to the health and life of workers who fight against the fire; a precariousness that is already giving the first voices of alarm in health, as fire workers are beginning to appear, mainly from private companies, with lung injuries caused by inhalation of the smoke of fires. We're playing not only with everyone's life and all who might be close to those fires but also with those people who are dedicated to protecting us from the fires fighting them. Let's remind the House again of the case of the firefighters of the Valminor emergency group, who were extinguishing a fire with a sulfate for having the truck broken, or the recent fire in Brión. Those are the conditions under which workers work in the fight against fire. The non-management of the People's Party culminated in absolute discredit when it removed the remote management system from Galicia's 112 Emergency Care Centre as a result of serious deficiencies in coordinating the emergency service unfolded in the Angrois accident. Should Telemac be protected again, the company that manages 112? Is that why this happened? It seems we are facing more evidence than rescue citizens does not exist in the People's Party vocabulary, but rather the incompetence or balance of accounts from private companies that assume the only private emergency service across the state, also at the expense of firefighters' labor rights. The emergency management system feeds on clientelism, promoted by unscrupulous people who anticipate political or business interests above the general interests and rights of workers and workers. It is a fear for the security of citizenship to cover ten municipalities, for example, with a holding of only three firemen and even above paying more. Mr. Rueda continues to shield with public funds the business profit by privatizing a citizenship service which has been rejected both by the Inter-union Bureau of Firefighters and by the opposition of this House. That is why we bet that the provision of service throughout the country is guaranteed as a public service, eliminating the current indirect management systems employed in the consortia of the extinction of fires in the provinces of Greece. We bet he pushes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u110	... –I have finished – and I approve a professional firefighter status and why this staff is recognized in that statute as an agent of authority in the exercise of their functions. We share the need to create a collective convention of firefighters that rescues the service and sustains the means that have been proved basic for coordination. We must articulate a public service that responds to people's needs. That's why we introduced this addition amendment to restore the 112 emergency care remote management system, which connected emergency equipment, and to rescue emergency services directly to public management in collaboration with the competent administrations. To finish, I want to express my solidarity with the workers who suffer this precariousness and who risk their lives to take care of the lives of all of them. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Popular Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I want to greet the people who accompany us in the rostrum. Secondly, I would like to express my satisfaction today at the decision they have just communicated to me from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that puts an end to so many months of infamy and conspiracy. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, I don't hold a grudge against you for contributing to an unprecedented media trial that has done so much harm to my family, because I'm political and I know I have to take on certain issues, but my family doesn't. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the unconditional support of my party, also of my spokesman and my colleagues and colleagues in the Popular Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] I would also like to say that Mr. Rueda can't accompany us because he's presiding the minute of silence... I know you don't like it... [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u113	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u114	I know they don't like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u115	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u116	...that they would like to continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u117	Mrs. Pontón, you have a call to order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u118	Thank you, Madam President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I mean that Mr. Rueda can't accompany us because he's presiding at the Galician board the minute of silence, just like we did here in this institution. [[Murmurs.]] We discussed a proposal by the Socialist Party of Galicia with two demands: on the one hand, they call for the approval of a framework agreement for firefighters; on the other hand, for the approval of the basic statute, the Firefighter's Statute. Well, the two questions that were set out in a 2007 rule -- as Mrs. Sestayo said here. It seems that when they ruled because the norm could be skipped, because she just said here that the Greek Government does not know the consequences that it has not met a norm. Well, from 2007 until 2009 they ruled. And the rule also sets very clear deadlines for six months. So from May 2007 – the six months ended in November 2007 – until March 2009, which started the People's Party Government, you had plenty of time. A rule, by the way, Mrs. Sestayo, on which you have been rapporteur and which has been adopted by this House with a clear reply by the firefighters of Galicia. I'm going to read some headlines at that time when you approved the Galician Emergency Act in this House: "Fifty firefighters protest in Santiago against the privatization of emergency service"; by the way, privatization of what the People's Party always accuses. He also spoke: "The fire department recalls that Galicia is the only community that has privatized the service and recognizes the lack of coordination between the different bodies." What kind of coordination is that, Mrs. Sestayo, about when you were ruling? Now there's a lot more coordination than there was when you were ruling. Look, here are many pictures of hemerotheque – you, who like it so much – "Privatization, precariousness, deprotection – February 2007"–. Another: "Privatizations, the same conditions, the same functions." Another: "With this government, Galicia to the emergency queue", IGC, Workers' Commissions and UXT. This was in 2007, when you ruled. I don't know how difficult it is to come here to say the things they say when they're in this rostrum against the People's Party, because, when you rule, when you've ruled, the emergency situation was an absolute disaster, Mrs. Sestayo. Look, we tabled an amendment because we actually believe it's important to comply with the law, but the law cannot be met in an unbalanced way; things have to follow a few moments and have to follow a chronological period. And the first step was to set up the provincial consortia, as a first step, in agreement with the corresponding deputies, to establish through the solicitation of the service a homogenisation of the benefits and working conditions so that they are identical in each provincial consortium and that there are no differences between the different parks and, thirdly, to approve the regulation of the professional firefighter. This must be the sequence. Well, since 2009 the Government of Greece – and so has expressed it in many appearances the Director General of Emergency Affairs here in this House – has been making decisions and is adopting measures to carry out these proceedings. In 2009 an agreement was reached with the Provincial Deputation of Lugo which was translated into Decree 136/2010, thus beginning to operate in May 2011 the five parks integrated into the Provincial Consorcio de Lugo. Then there would be Monforte's, too, which became part of the Consortium in October 2012. In 2010, after reaching this consensus with the Lugo Deputy, he took another step, it was with Pontevedra, for the creation of the provincial consortium. And in 2014, in an assembly consisting of the Ourense Parliament and its plenary, the representation of the Board provisionally approves the statutes of the Ourense Provincial Consortium, for the provision of the Fire and Rescue Service – I believe it is pending –. Well, we propose an amendment in which we put two questions: the first is to complete the process of homogenization of the benefits and working conditions in the counter-fire and rescue services dependent on the provincial consortia, which has been developed by the Board in recent years, by constituting, putting into operation, the Ourense Provincial Consortium, which is what remains, as was being said to them, and thus fulfilling paragraphs 1 and 2 of the third additional provision of Law 5/2007, of which we are talking about, and, secondly, adopting within one year the Rules of Professional Firefighters and Volunteers, once this functional and organized framework is established. So, I think we're basically in agreement, but it's important to fulfill that ether and fulfill that sequence of what I'm talking about. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u120	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen who accompany us from the public. Mrs. Prado, we don't hold a grudge against you and many of your colleagues permanently against members of the opposition. And we don't hate them either because they constantly lie to us here. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda is not presiding at the Galician Council three minutes ago he was in this Parliament's elevator, unless he has a double and one part of that vice president is in one place and another. Look, the firefighters' situation in this country has never been homogenized or harmonised, so we all know that. So surely in 2007 we saw the need to pass an emergency law that regulated all that -- an emergency law that probably has many deficiencies and an emergency law that would probably need to be modified. I know we approved it, Mrs. Prado, but, look, the difference between us and you is that we are able to recognize when we're wrong, and maybe we made a law that is wrong and that later, when it gets to work, denotes those deficiencies, or, perhaps, we've made a law thinking that putting on some emergency-related issues could privatize wouldn't mean that a government of the People's Party had privatized everything at all, Mrs. Prado; maybe so too. Look, in any case, that law had several purposes; one of them is to harmonise. And you made everything less harmonizing, because at that moment we had the firemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u121	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u122	...public civil servants of the cities, and we had the county parks, and everybody thought that was a dysfunctional situation. Well, as long as you've reached the Government, the situation has not only improved, but now it's much more dysfunctional. Now, in case it wasn't enough, you might want to create an engineer called Supreme Emergency Groups that no longer know whether they're public, private or semi-pensionary. And you guys don't do what you say to yourself that you're engaged. Because you just spoke here now of the Provincial Consortium of Ourense, and yesterday you just made the Board of Galicia public that not only will not be the consortium, that will not open the Carballino Park that they promise you, I believe that since I was in the garden of childhood, but that, as there are choices and have a Christ that cannot be with him in the Town Hall of Carballino, that will give you a supra-municipal group... but what a curious!, a supra-municipal group only for the town of Carballini. Look, you guys are laughing at the stream of harmonisation. You're the real fears, and you're the ones that make friendly companies, the ones that finance them to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u123	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u124	...in b and black, they don't lose business niches, they don't lose business opportunities, they don't know what to invent to keep emergencies not only privatized, but they're becoming more and more precarious in relation to the working conditions of the workers, who work for these companies, Mrs Prado, who manage the different county parks, but also precarious for the citizens. Because this model is so absurd that an emergency that occurs in Caeira – which is next to Pontevedra Municipal Park – must be attended by firefighters who are 20 or 30 kilometers away, when there is a park 100 metres away, Mrs. Prado. And that's what you don't want to find a solution, because that's against the business of those who finance you in black, even if you don't like that color on the vice president of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u126	And that's why we're going to vote in favour of this initiative, because, in addition, we also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u128	...is unfair to citizens, because not everyone has the same attention to the current system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs Peace, you, who is an expert lady, who was Vice President of this House, know that you have heeded the decor of the House, and that therefore you have a call to order... because you accused – no, you have no word – You... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I simply said that I had attacked the decoration of the House, and that I therefore had a call to order. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Peace... two calls to order, Mrs. Peace. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Sestayo. Sorry, sorry, Mrs. Díaz. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't want to take your word off. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u130	Good morning again. A greeting to the firemen who meet us here today in the House. The truth is this whole is being very interesting. Yesterday Mr. Puy was evaluating and giving us a masterly class in which he quoted – and I am glad, Mr. Puy – a discussion between Montesquieu and Rousseau; even you quoted Robespierre, who seems very good, because so we raised the level of this House. But I also use today to quote here, in respect of some statement that has just been made, a classic like Max Weber. It's interesting that in the ranks of the People's Party they learn to differentiate what the criminal responsibilities of political responsibilities are, I say, so that we can start walking, for a reason of strict democratic sense and not because Mr. Weber was a revolutionary, simply because to be a parliamentary or parliamentary, there must also be some baggage... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u132	...I insist, criminal offences do not mix with political illegals. And speaking of illegal criminal and political illegals, it is very interesting that once again the debate on the Emergency Act and on the urgency it has to recover from the privatized service of this country's emergencies; to speak directly of the main service in any country, in a normal country, as it is just the extinction of fires. And we're talking about this, and I'm going back to Max Weber, because the first thing the People's Party should do is explain the political responsibilities of what's happened with a resolution... which has just been dictated by... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u133	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u134	...of the Central Administrative Court on February 27, declaring the radical nullity of full right of the demand for tenders that have been approved in respect of the Fire Extinction Service of the province of Coruña. I say this because that resolution says very interesting things about the political responsibilities of what Mr Rueda is doing – absent – with regard to the privatization of emergency services. It says things as interesting as, for example, that this nail violates, for example, a formal requirement, the advertisement. It says such interesting things as that, as it was done – by the way, we said it in this plenary, this very vogue in December – the petition is made to present the company that manages the service. In fact, the court gives us the reason, and says that, as it is done, only the company that carries the service can be presented. It says things as interesting as the length of time is more than excessive. It says things as tremendous as they are blatantly violating what is technically called the "operational risk"; that is, the company that presents itself – as if I present myself – does not take any risk, always pays – as before – Juan Pueblo. But returning to the question that Mrs. Sestayo brings today on two points, of course, of course, we will support that initiative – we have brought it here – because we have to rescue the emergency services of this country, because, as much as the Emergency Act allows the privatization of services, the truth and truth is that since the People's Party has been ruling, since 2009, they have been breaking down with emergency services. The truth is that no People's Party from the rest of the state dared itself, no People's Party; it's unthinkable that emergency services are in private hands. It's like privatizing the tax inspection, it's a barbarity, they're willing to do business with everything. Actually, business for this of what Judge Ruz's car talks about, to finance himself irregularly on an alleged character, but said in 190 sheets by Judge Ruz. So, the image of emergency services saw her in the English catastrophe, we saw the body of firemen not even approved their material conditions, different colors, there were no hierarchies, we saw the catastrophe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u135	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u136	...we came to an advanced command post that wasn't such, we saw how there was no way to govern that... those images that circulated to the world, unfortunately, with different colors, however, show what's going on in the privatization of emergency services and show something so obvious that we're going to claim a questionnaire for this House, a Roman censor, actually, because, what happened after English? What happened was that, in fact, as the 112 calls were leaked, they automatically removed remote controls as punishment, as I suppose they're going to do in this House shortly. Therefore, it is essential that we make the status – or the regulation, as they want – of firefighters to homogenize the working conditions of the staff. But secondly, we want them to be public, because in no normal country, emergencies are subject to the supply of market demand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u137	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u138	It's unthinkable. So, Mrs Sestayo, of course, on both points, both at the convention and at the development of the law itself, which, in fact, had some deadlines, we are going to vote favourably.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u139	Thank you very much. Replica from the author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Sestayo, from the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u140	First of all, I would like to thank the BNG and AGE groups for their support for this parliamentary initiative. Mrs. Díaz, don't be naive, I know we still retain it to ask the People's Party to distinguish between criminal and political responsibility; this People's Party that is accredited by a car that has been irregularly funded for 18 years, by a Mr. Ruz's judicial self, but they are already known to be very similar to Caritas. We are obviously not going to accept any more manipulations of the parliamentary initiatives that we are presenting. We have presented a parliamentary initiative that responds to the enforcement of a law. I suppose you'll always see that there are demonstrations, mobilizations, etc. You understand, you interpret, that people are delighted with their politics, because the history of emergency management since Mr. Feijóo's possession – and let's not say in this second legislation – is characterized by the continued mobilization of emergency professionals, against precarious working conditions that put their safety, their own life and, by course, everyone's safety at risk. But it can be seen that those who have the opportunity to carry private escorts because they don't care much about the safety of people, as well as about goods; those goods that will also be insured for VIP people. But we're going to insist on the literal text agreed with the firefighters; I insist, two questions that are... by the way, in either case... I suppose they would read the Emergency Law well. I try to maintain respect not to go into absurd disqualifications, and I am sure that we all read the Emergency Act, which therefore we know the deadlines and which, therefore, we know that the deadlines for entry into force of each of the issues that I am asking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group have to see and come into force just with a government called the People's Party government and which has been ruling for six years. This is the reality of the legal text. And in these predictions – I insist – we ask that the Emergency Law be complied with in two initial predictions. I suppose, in addition, the president of the board is entering, and now the vice president of the board, and they won't be able to vote against a law that requires them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u141	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u142	...to an approval, as I have previously stated, collected in the Emergency Act, which obliges them to develop the Fire Department Statute. I am therefore sure that so many high officials of the Galician Council will now vote in favour of complying with the law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u143	Thank you very much. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u144	Let's move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the proposal of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Moreira, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the realization by the Government of Greece of the management necessary to advance the implementation of the telematic presentation of judicial demands and communications. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32; abstentions, 2. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u145	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Baamonde, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galician people on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the celebration of the day of the Greek letters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 16; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u146	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Val Alonso, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Joint Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the proposal sent by the Central Government to the research sector referred to the allocation of fishing opportunities for the yard by 2015. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u147	We voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Rodas, which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the current model of distribution of catch quotas for pelagic species. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u148	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Galga de Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the events that occurred during a defiance in Aríns, in Santiago de Compostela Town Hall. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u149	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs Adán Villamarín, who I believe accepts the amendment of the Socialist Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the process initiated by the Labour and Welfare Council for the formalization of new agreements between the Galician Social Services Agency and the municipalities for the management and financing of social service equipment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u150	We voted on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at Mrs Díaz's initiative, to which no amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the continuation of the work of the parliamentary commission of research on the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their current situation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u151	Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Sestayo, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Beatriz Sestayo Doce and Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the approval of a framework convention of the firemen of Galicia, as well as of the fireman's Statute. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u152	As has been reported, we continue with the development of the agenda, with point 6 of questions for oral response by the President of the Council of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the resignations produced in the Bioethics Commission, dependent on the Health Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u153	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u154	Mr President, if there is an area of the administration's political life in which ethics is undoubtedly important, it is health policy. I want to ask you what ethical values you are defending when you make decisions that can put people's lives at risk, because when you, for example, authorize the prohibition of vaccines against meningitis B is assuming that every year two minors can die and six minors can be permanently disabled. Last week, a medical group came to the Prosecutor's Office with a complaint about the death of five patients who were unable to receive treatment due to the delay of the Galician Board. In your decisions, Mr. Feijóo, behind them, there are people, and there are people who have vital risks. How much is a person's life worth to you? A few weeks ago several members of the Galega Bioethics Commission were dismissed who were designated by you in protest of the censorship of a report. After a scandalous vodevil between you and the advisor, the report was published. That's right. They forgot, they shut up, that the report had been kidnapped for six months. And the report comes to ratify precisely what we say in this House from these seats: that the PP is cutting off the right to health care and questioning the universality, fairness and freeness enshrined in the 1986 law; three very simple principles, Mr President: to attend to all, to attend them without discrimination, and to pay with taxes. You're turning out to be one of the ideologues who wants to market health and end equality. The call against health policy is ongoing. If in January the emergencies collapsed the hospitals, why are they now collapsed? You always have an excuse: in January it was the flu, now it's the sick, who have the bad habit of getting sick. The real reason -- every professional knows it and it's published every day -- is its policy of cuts: there are cuts; as a result, there are fewer doctors, there are fewer beds; therefore, there are lists, there's wait, there's collapse in the emergencies. Do you know, you know, this House, that during these years of crisis, private insurance policies in Spain and Galicia have steadily grown? People understand their message: they save themselves who they can. It's no wonder that the private sector is openly talking about the good that comes to her and she's delighted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u155	Finish, please, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u156	...with you. They know that you and the advisor serve your interests. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, how much is a human life worth to you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. You have the floor, to answer, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u158	Your Honor, a human life has no price and, consequently, what we're trying – and of course, the 36,000 people who work in the Galician Health Service – are saving human lives every day. This minute I'm sure they're saving a lot. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you tell me about Spain's vaccination calendar and, as you know, that calendar is approved at the International Health Council, where, by the way, there are the few advisers that still have the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. You forget that Galicia was the only community – we put that proposal – to make a pilot experience, to put the pneumococcal vaccine for the first time in the children and the children of Greece; the only one in Spain. And now that proposal is justly accepted by all health advisors of the National Health System and the Ministry of Health. And this pilot experience, which we started in Galicia with a new benefit, extended to the rest of the country. You're also saying that the private sector in Galicia is very happy. I'm sorry I didn't see the BNG posters, complain about a private health concert in Vigo. As far as you can see, Your Honor, you don't even agree with what needs to be done with the health concerts in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] But now you talk to me too – and I appreciate it – because we've been asking different questions for several weeks from what you subscribed to at the Speaker's Board of Auditors – of the Bioethics Commission. Look, ma'am, I've already spoken about it and the people who make up the Bioethics Commission have already spoken. We did what we did was accept the work, respond with caution, listen to opinions and, of course, correct the wrongs that could be produced. This subject is angry, not for us, but for the members of the Bioethics Commission, on 10 March; they were angry with a very clear, very precise communiqué, and with the unanimous agreement between them all. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're not in front of us, not even aware that the members of the Bioethics Committee have launched a very clear statement. What if they say, Your Honor, is that – let me read it – Dr. José Ramón Amor Pan – daily The Voice of Galicia, March 5, "The MPs of the PSdEG, AGE and BNG have only used disqualification and insult against the health advisor. Bochornous show. Bioethics, nothing." Mr. Méndez Romeo, I'm sorry to have to paraphrase this doctor. Mr. Méndez Romeo, a boisterous spectacle; of no bioethics at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u159	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u160	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u161	Thank you. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u162	Yes, Mr. Feijóo, I liked that appointment from Mr. Amor Pan, theologian, in defense of the Counsellor. Mr Feijóo, of course we agree that doctors, professionals, are saving lives and healing patients every day. Unfortunately, in spite of you, because you well care about cutting down the means you work for, making your conditions worse, and even, I insist, about endangering people's lives, of course. [[Applause]] You've forbidden the Greek families to buy their vaccines, and they're forcing them to travel to Portugal, because it's the doctors themselves – the pediatricians – who are then saying that this is intolerable, and there are even the latest figures of morbidity. Mr. Made it, you can put it up as you like. What the Bioethics Commission says – and it's written – is that you attacked equality; attacked equality in access, attacked equality in the service portfolio, introduced coke and made the drug. Ask yourself when you walk through the streets; at any pharmacy office you'll be told terrible stories of pensioners and unemployed people who don't take the prescribed drugs away because they can't afford them. That's you and all your government partners all over Spain, headed by Mr. Rajoy, of course. Mr. Feijóo, you have drastically reduced economic resources, reduced medical spending. And what's the situation we're in now? That's what all the professionals say: that we're worse than we know years ago, that we're much worse. You're not going to find anywhere in Galicia doctors who defend their politics, they're all on the verge of war because they think you're destroying what was a model system, and to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u163	Finish, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u164	...when they reduced the replacement rates, when the Government decreed that there was no replacement in the medical sector, it was time to impose the forced retirement of the most qualified doctors, because, Mr. Feijóo, he was not interested at all or improving the service or qualification; yes, in parallel with last year you signed 100,000 contracts a day for health workers. Is that the model?, maximum precariousness, contempt for the experience and worsening of services? And that's what he calls ethics?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u166	Look, Your Honor, I agree with that doctor you're referring to, who was one of the ones who resigned, in which, on biothetics, nothing at all, and I'd just like to give Galicia a date to confirm that this doctor was right: the Bipartite... how many times did he meet the Bioethics Commission in four years? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] One. How many have you brought together this government? Forty-two. How will you disagree, Your Honor, if you don't let them speak? If they didn't let them talk for four years! [[Laughter]] For four years we couldn't talk about biothetics in Galicia. [[Applause]] That's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you come here with that sovereignty in which sometimes, unfortunately, it falls to talk about bioethics. Look, Your Honor, we did what we did was to include long-term unemployed in health care, and in Galicia there are 23,000 new beneficiaries of public health as a result of that Royal Decree, 23,000 new! We did what we did, since the law allowed it, was to include immigrants without papers, illegal, so that they could access health services, through the Galego Forum of Immigration – I denied – in which, together with the Galego Health Service, we are absolutely, daily...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u167	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u168	...seeing in which cases it is necessary; 2,000 migrants. So, Your Honor, here in Galicia people have access to public health. I'd like to know if in any community in which you rule and will continue to govern all undocumented immigrants also have the right to come to those hospitals... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, as far as medicine is concerned, what we've done right now is to make it easier for those who have no money to do the drugs and who pay the drugs according to their income. They forgot, even in their basic principles, social democracy. Look, Your Honor, what we're correcting is an unfair situation of long-term unemployed people who, with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, had no right to drugs for free. And now long-term unemployed people have the right to free medicines; with you they paid 40%. And today there are 125,000 people in Galicia who have the right to drugs for free, the long-term unemployed included. Your Honor, what are we accused of? I have to repeat the resignation's words...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u169	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u170	By the way, Your Honor, there are 300 people on the advisory committees of the Galician Health Service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u171	Mrs. Hide, you have two calls to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u172	...demitted 2.3%, perfectly valid. Commissions are not to take exactly the same approach at all, but to disagree. But look, Your Honor, with this government you can disagree; you weren't even interested in the opinion of doctors in bioethics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u173	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u174	...because, I insist, they were gathered once and for all; we, 42 times. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u175	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the actions planned to reverse the situation of public health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u176	To put your question you have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u177	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. President. I suppose in this country you are dismissed for pleasure; I suppose they did everything so well that the reaction was to resign. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I'm going to tell you about a wonderful film by Luis Buñuel, that dark object of wish. I don't know if you realize what it is, but, in any case, it seems that you always stumble on that attempt to do business, which is the most intimate desire you have particularly with health care. And I'm going to tell you, above all, because I wouldn't give myself time in the three minutes to make a relationship of all the services that you have privatized, but I'm going to tell you exactly that you've privatized 50% of our country's public health budget. You have incorporated a cut in public health of more than 12%, exactly 465 million since you ruled in Galicia. We have 6% fewer workers, more than 2,000 fewer workers in public health, and we have – you're the champion of the state media – more than 1,360 beds closed due to their policy cuts; exactly you find yourself at -4,9% in cuts, when the state average exceeds a little by 2%. It is true that it is the champion of the cuts, but, if you do, we in Galicia have privatized the sterilization service of the instrument – EUR160 million –; the system logistics service, EUR 88 million – the Severian, Mobile Service –; the service of Oxentherapy, for 10 million a year – of course, with a company that is a criminal without more, as they say the judgments –; the ambulance service, EUR 236 million; the technological team; the high technology, which must never be privatized in one country, EUR 88 million within eight years; we also have the telecommunications service, that multinational which is also awarded to the People's Party called Telephonica, nothing more and nothing less than EUR 28 million; the 012 service, to an investment fund; the services of hemodialysis, of course, EUR 25.5 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u178	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u179	...to that neighbouring gentleman called Romay Beccaría – direct vencellos, not I say, is in public documents, Mr Feijóo – we have the privatization – another of the serious mistakes – of our country’s R & D+i, EUR 54 million; we have primary care annihilated, reduction of EUR 194 million; we have the assignment to the primary sector of transplant coordination, cell storage, tissue, etc.; we have the Dead Mental Health Strategic Plan; we have attacks on women, with closures and cuts in the FOCs – yes, Mr Feijóo, with the FOCs, indeed –; we have completely demolished the Socio-Health Network in drug addictions; we have workers and workers in Povervisa who have just lifted a hunger strike...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u181	...and those who didn't have the sensitivity to receive. Mr. Feijóo, what are you going to do to change this deliberate strategy of privatizing everything in Italian public health at all?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u182	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u183	Your Honor, I didn't know that the doctors, theologians and staff who formed the Bioethics Commission were officers of the Council. We are not dismissed, Your Honor; when we consider that there is one who does not perform his duties, we cease them. You're in charge that you have – not now – just stop them. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u184	Mrs. Hold on, as I call you back to order... please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u185	But I would simply like to move that the public job offer of the Galician Health Service in recent years is 5,000 workers; 5,000, in the midst of economic crisis. Sterilization is a falsehood. Do you intend ambulances to be public, with public drivers? Is there any place in Spain where this happens? Do you also intend that we now have telephonists and communication networks and that we merge a telephone company into Galicia? Is there any health services where your communications are with officials? Your Honor, the subject of dialysis... I saw members of the opposition come down to the test of kidney problems... yes, yes, of the opposition, yes. It was that foundation that is lending dialysis in Galicia and in many places in Spain. Look, Your Honor, what do we privatize transplants? No, Your Honor. Here we bring together Europe's top transplant authorities to sign an agreement against trafficking in human organs this morning. Therefore, Your Honor, when they choose Santiago and when they choose Galicia it is because they feel proud, just like us, of the Greek public health. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, allow me not to be able to answer each of your questions because they're just a continuous nonsense. Yes, I would like – because I defend the 36,000 professionals of the Galego Health Service, which you are constantly denigrating – to thank them for increasing consultations in public hospitals in recent years, 400,000 plus – a 9%; for thank you for the average time we expect to go to a consultation in a hospital for 28%; for thank you for more intervention tomorrow – and more than 23,000 interventions in the morning if you are doing – in the public hospitals of Sergas, 23%; thank you, Your Honor, for waiting lists of urgent pathologies to be the lowest since there are records; and, of course, ladies and gentlemen, thank those people of good faith who, when asked, believe that the Welsh public health works better or much better, 74% say that it works better or much better, 3 points more than when we get to the Government, despite the economic crisis. Your Honor, I am proud to buy high technology, EUR 88 million, the most important investment the Galician Health Service has made since the transfer of health. I'm proud to be expanding hospitals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u186	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u187	...to be reforming hospitals, making new hospitals. I am proud, as a German, that 50% of the Greeks now have a new reformed health center and hospital in 2015, and that 70% of the Greeks have a new hospital or a new or reformed health center in 2016. Your Honor, as you can imagine, I believe in public health, you're the only one who tries to desist public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u189	Mr. Feijóo, indeed, you have spoken of nonsense, to a maximum honour to this House, and indeed it is a nonsense what you are doing. And you can't answer me because the privatisation reports are so long that we wouldn't, of course, get the whole of this House to place them in what the public reports say: that you're responsible for finding yourself in the ranking, in the third position above, of privatizations of the whole state. This is the medal you have: doing business with public health. The question we must have asked you must have been the following: when will the health adviser cease, Mr Feijóo? Because you know how I am that it's a disaster in public health management, and it's fabulous – yes – to defend that rotating door of the Nosa Terra Group in Poverty. It's a disaster that there are workers and workers on hunger strike and have no heart to receive them, Mr. Feijóo. It's a disaster, indeed, you, that talks about ambulances... what if we want them to be public? Yeah, because everything that's sanitary has to be public. What is nonsense, Mr Feijóo, is this picture that we saw these days in which patients were exchanged in ambulances; that is indeed a third-worldist, with all due respect, Mr Feijóo, for the ill-known countries of the third world. This is happening in this country. And what is a disaster, a nonsense, Mr. Feijóo – I am a public health user, unfortunately or fortunately, and for now I have coverage for health care – is that mirror in which you may feel portrayed, which is the collapse of emergencies. That's where you see whether the system works or not; and it doesn't work. All you care about, Mr. Feijóo is doing business. And I suppose when the Counsellor ceases to be Counsellor, she will continue to do business in the private company. So, Mr. Feijóo, will you continue on this path, will you defend public health or will you continue to do this justly, which is to censor people? Those who, by the way, censor them just to question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u191	...that Royal Decree 16/2012 does not generate equity. That's what that report says, nothing more and nothing less, and that's not even what you guys stand for. They know we're right, they know what's going on in public health is infamous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u193	And if you were a responsible president, the first decision you would make, even if it were from the People's Party, would be to cease Mrs Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the private hospital in Povisa, I want to tell you that again, unfortunately, AGE spokesperson didn't tell the truth first, because they were received by the delegate of the board last week in Vigo. The works committee and the representatives of Povervisa were received by the delegate of the Board in Vigo; and they were re-received on Tuesday in Vigo. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, it's that when we don't even accept the data, the meetings, as you can imagine, it's very difficult to talk. But look, Your Honor, we're hearing that we're increasing private health, and it turns out that when governments rule that make progress, concerts have increased in Galicia by 46% between 2005 and 2009 – 46%, they have increased more than 68 million euros – and now that we've reached the Government we've reduced them by 5%, 11 million and a half euros by less. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] What exactly are we accused of, Your Honor? What exactly are we accused of, Your Honor? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, I've got the newspaper relationship here during these months of January, February and March of all autonomous communities saying the same thing. Allow me to read one of Andalusia – although now you are the one of Andalusia, after the elections, I think you are no longer interested –: "I stumble in Andalusian health...;" [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u196	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u197	"...due in E.R. after waiting more than eleven hours to be cared for."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u198	Quiet, please. I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u199	Your Honor, from all autonomous communities, including the best, the Basque Country, Navarre, Rioxa. I won't, of course, demagogy on this matter because I am, Your Honor, who in the E.R. is paying more attention to everyone's interests. If I may tell you that Galicia has been able in December of this year to increase 600 more people, working in hospitals, than in December of last year. And in January, 653 more people, and in February, 555 more people, i.e., from the point of flu that came up, we take an average of 600 more people every month. Yes, Your Honor, that's the data. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Say we privatize health, Your Honor, when we're doing more than... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u200	Mrs. Now, as I call you again, leave the hemicycle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u201	...50,000 square meters of public health in Ourense, with 41 million euros of investment; say that it privatizes health when we're expanding Salnés' hospital as we've never done; say that we privatize health when we're investing 20 million euros in the Navy hospital they shine, Your Honor, that's missing the truth. If I'd like to... and I ask myself a question: what would you say if private clinics were collapsed because there are no blood reagents or surgical material in public hospitals? What would they say? What would you say, Your Honor, if there were no insulin for the diabetics? What would they say if I missed oxygen in hospitals? What would they say?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u203	What would you say if there weren't even gloves in public hospitals? What would you say if there was a 50% drug deficit in public hospitals? Do you know what they would say, Your Honor? I saw one day in this gallery: "Chávez, I swear to you, we will vote for Maduro." [[Applause]] Your Honor, among Venezuela's public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u204	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u205	Yes, Your Honor; yes, Your Honor. "Chávez, I swear to you, we will vote for Maduro," said his health care officer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u207	And you ask me to stop the health advisor. Your Honor, I know what yours would be: the advisor to Chavez, I swear, we'll vote for Maduro. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u208	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u209	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da María Consuelo Martínez García of the G.P. Joint action to reverse the effects of the economic crisis and unemployment on citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u210	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u211	Thank you, President. Mr Feijóo, I must begin by regreting that today you deny the BNG your right to ask the president's question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u212	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u213	Mr President, the economic crisis, unemployment and budget cuts affecting the public health system have contributed to the alarming increase in the number of suicides in Galicia. Last year there were 390 suicide victims in Galicia, representing a rate of 14 per 100,000 inhabitants, four points above the state average. Every year in Vigo and the province of Pontevedra there are between four and five times more voluntary deaths than trafficked victims, just in the city and province that most employment has destroyed. The number of suicides continues to increase due to the absence of measures to prevent poverty, active employment policies, programmes to help families with difficulties, due to wages of poverty, defiance, abandonment of public services and subsequent privatization. Twenty-one thousand people between 25 and 34 years of age emigrated in the third quarter of 2014 with respect to the previous year, of whom nearly a third had higher education; 160,000 Greeks and Greeks emigrated since the outbreak of the crisis in 2008; 177,500 Greeks and Greeks received a monthly salary of 150 euros gross, EUR 1,872 per year. These people don't count among the unemployed Greeks. If so, we'd be at a 35% unemployment rate, compared to 20.87 of the official statistics. The monthly gross salary in Galicia in 2013 was the fifth lowest in the state, with 1,728 euros; Galicia closed 2014 with 263,800 unemployed; and only 56% of Galicia's unemployed and unemployed receive the subsidy or the Risk. The remaining 44%, more than 120,000 people, receive no help. The coverage rate of benefits has been reduced by four points in just one year. Employees with indefinite contracts have decreased by 1.1%, while employees with temporary contracts have grown by 8.1%, and there are already 189,600 people. The occupation has fallen in 2,200 people in one year. The number of contributors to Social Security and pensioners and unemployed people is dangerously approaching: 936,100 senior workers in Social Security and 877,300 pensioners and unemployed persons with benefits. Mr. Feijóo, your policies are leading to ruin and despair to the Greek people. The Greeks and the Greeks emigrate and commit suicide in the face of the despair that their Government offers them. What does the president of Galicia have to say to these people who no longer trust their economic, social and labor policies and who see it as the only option...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u215	...to take your life away?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u216	Thank you very much. You have the floor to answer, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u217	Your Honor, you tell me about unemployment, demographic problems, income problems. As you know, unemployment in Galicia has dropped 22,000 in the last year and 15,000 memberships have increased. About the demographic problems that fewer children and girls are born in Galicia, we have suffered them since the 1980s, as you should know – and I am convinced that you know it. But it also tells me about suicides, and talking about suicides is not a minor issue, it's a very serious matter, Your Honor, and that's why it requires a certain way. The World Health Organization has published reports on how to act in the prevention of suicides and has published reports for health professionals, educators, members and security forces of the State, prison personnel, also for the media. Let me tell you what you propose to the World Health Organization when we talk about suicides. First it proposes that statistics should be interpreted carefully and correctly: authentic and reliable sources should be used. Spontaneous comments should be handled with care. Small-encrypted generalisations require particular attention. Expressions such as "suicide epidemic" or – literally – "the place with the highest rate of suicide in the world" should be avoided. There must be resistance to reporting suicide behavior as an understandable response to changes or social or cultural degradation. Well, you just broke every one of the World Health Organization's recommendations. First, because you do not use official data, first consideration. I'm not going to fall into that mistake, Your Honor, because I have a lot of respect to the families who have lost a son or a daughter, a father or a mother or a brother as a result of a suicide in that family. And I fully agree with the World Health Organization, fully; it's a mistake to treat suicides as simply a matter or a simple argument to relate suicides to economic causes, a deep mistake; say it to the World Health Organization, and I agree. And, of course, it seems to me a little disrespectful to talk about suicides with that ease and frivolity with which you started your question. Look, Your Honor, the World Health Organization points out that the number of suicides in the world is about one million a year; the suicide rate in the world is 16 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants. And you know what the World Health Organization says? That in 90% of the people who commit suicide encounter mental disorders: depression, substance abuse, psychotic disorders, personality disorders, anxiety disorders... Your Honor, I'm very sorry that you want to unfocus this serious problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u219	...who have the Galician families, the Spanish families, the European families; ultimately, the human beings. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u220	You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u221	Mr. President, I regret your demagogy because that's why we can't talk about things we don't like is what has always been done with violence against women; they were themes we couldn't talk about. Because I'm going to talk, and it's data from the INE itself, it's official data. It's a shame you don't know the official suicide data in your country, and it's true they're related to this crisis and to the management of this crisis that you do, Mr. Feijóo. Nothing more to present this question began to send me letters from people who took their lives away from their families because they were homeless, deprived of their jobs and had no food for their children. You can call that mental illness and depression, I call it [...], which sets laws and rules that end with the working class, take away the bread from people, take away their housing and that as the only answer they receive the repression of the police and police charges, as we have seen before this Parliament against sailors or naval workers; that's their policy. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] So I'm not going to hide data, I refuse to hide data. Mr. Feijóo, poverty plans for this country, our girls and our boys emigrate massively, so they are not born children, because the people of fertile age, the women of fertile age, leave Galicia, and probably not to return. Mr. Feijóo, the economy is stagnant, its indolence... I will dedicate some verses, I'm allowed, by Mario Benedetti, who says, "Here in the street there are things that can't even be said. Students and workers put the dots on the lines. That's why I say, Minister, what are you laughing at, what are you laughing at?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh What are you laughing at, Mr. Feijóo? Mr President, with all due respect, resign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u222	Please finish, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u223	...similar to the corruption that surrounds you and your party, resigns so that the Greeks and the Greeks can have hope for the future. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u224	Mrs. Martínez, I cannot consent to you that... and therefore, as you will understand, with a call to order, I will withdraw you from the Journal of Sessions. The President has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u225	Indeed, Your Honor, they have been in the Journal of Sessions sufficiently portrayed by the ethics and morale of certain Members, in this honourable Member case. Look, Your Honor, you lied to the House because the 390 suicides you're talking about are not INE data. You lied... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u226	Mrs. Martínez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u227	...to the House. Reiterate: data from last year's published INE, Your Honor, are exactly from 2013, 333 suicides in Galicia, one more than in 2012. Reitero, Madam President, you lied to the House. That's the official INE data. But look, Your Honor, when you speak with such frivolity, do you know what the year is with more suicides in Galicia? O 1993, 372; no 2003, 337; no 2005, 329. Do you know what year was the year of minor suicides in Galicia? 2010 in full economic crisis, 275. And you can come here to say everything you say without even apologizing, and to say that this government or this group have some responsibility for these facts. Your Honor, besides being a great daring, I don't think you deserve to hold such a position in any case. And I'm telling him responsibly, because we could do demagogy and say that if during a government or another government there were more suicides than in another. You're what you've tried to say by misleading the data. And for that reason, Your Honor, I would like to reiterate to you: in the World Health Organization – I don't say it – you don't say that you should talk about it, of course you can speak, strictly, Your Honor, which is exactly what you don't do, strictly. And that's why I'm surprised when in Spain we have fewer suicides than in Japan, or that in Russia, or that in Finland, or that in France, or that in the United States, or that in Germany, or that in Sweden, or that in Cuba, lordship, that Cuba, what are you talking about? Your Honor, if you talk to me about Galicia, very gladly, for in Japan, 20.7; in Finland, 16; in France, 14, in the United States, 12.5; in Germany, 12.2; in Galicia, 12.1. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You mean, Your Honor, that people in Japan are in a decrepit situation and they have nowhere to go? Does it mean that Finland, which is one of the countries, that France, that the United States, that Germany, which is the economic locomotive in Europe, which has more suicides than in Galicia, means you, Your Honor, that in Germany and Japan are killing people because of the economic situation? Your Honor, I don't think we deserve it, not me anymore, but Galicia doesn't deserve this kind of behavior, Your Honor. And I say it honestly, the doctors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u228	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u229	...and health personnel, especially the entire body of psychiatry and psychologists in Galicia, do not deserve this disrespect for their professions. And of course, Your Honor, the families that we suffer from some suicide don't deserve this kind of treatment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u230	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. We continue with the development of the agenda, with the question mark. Interpellation by Mr Francisco Caamaño Domínguez and one Member and one more Member of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment by the Government of the last survey of the Galego Institute of Statistics reflecting a fall in the use of Greek among the girls and boys of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u231	You have the word to make up your appeal to Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u232	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia does not deserve a government that has completely abandoned its cultural and linguistic policy. Galicia does not deserve a government that has been working hard for years to achieve a result that the IGE just confirmed to us these days: the Greek is no longer the common language of most Greeks, from 57 to 44%. I'm not going into interpretations. I know what he did to the Galician board by the mouth of his president when he saw this official data from the Galician government itself, he said it was the fault of the families. I'm not going into interpretations or attributing guilt; I only see reality. I found the reality of a government that, since Núñez Feijóo came to preside over the Council of Galicia, he has used a policy of DDT against the Greek, and clearly: DDT. I suppose this will be right. When I say the first "D", I mean a policy of defiance of the Greek, that's the first "D." First of all, it seems to me that since the institutions of the Autonomous Community, Greek was a secondary language, which did not have much to study at school, which was a waste of time, an entertainment for nationalists. That's why he broke the unanimously approved Linguistic Standardization Plan in this House and certainly adopted a number of measures clearly geared towards this goal of destabilizing the language. Which he hasn't done before with other leaders in Galicia. The second step, immediately linked to that first – from which I will again speak – was to demand that the knowledge of the Greek was not necessary to occupy a position in the Public Administration of Galicia; how to prestigious our language. Galicia's official language, Galicia's own language, must not be known for playing a post in Galicia's Union. An obvious way to destabilize the English language. To recognize – said in other words – the right of some people to ignore Galicia's own and official language. Third form of contempt: the decree of plurilingualism. English is not an official language like Spanish. We took public education, shared it in three, and made a decree of plurilingualism, which the only thing we want is to cover up this same strategy of despicableness towards the Greek, and to tell the families of Galicia: the important thing is English, with English traveling around the world, forget about Greek, that this is – again the theme of Feijóo and his – of nationalists. These despicable policies lead us to one of the worst situations that has ever experienced in our language, from then on, which has worse lived and experienced in democracy. In case it wasn't enough, the despicable measures were accompanied by real disillusionment measures. And we can clearly give the figures with the same rigor as the President of the Board usually gives them; that is, I will not distort them, the difference from what he usually does. Since 2009, budgets devoted to the Greek language have been undergoing the following developments: in 2009, 21.5 million euros; in 2015, 6.7 million euros. Thus, 70% less public funding for the defense of our language. The argument is already well known – another argument of contempt – is that when there are other needs, when there is no bread, there is no need to be worried about the language. That's what we're constantly told from this rostrum, and there's other priorities. Yes, but while the other priorities were adjusted by 3 and 4 percent, in the case of the Greek language, chance!, the adjustment is three times as much. I don't know what logic or argument or reasoning can be. In fact, in Manuel Fraga's last budget, he dedicated himself to the Greek language of 19.5 million euros. Done it, 2015, I just told you: 6.7 million euros. Absolutely disloyal! And without resources there are no public policies that support lines of prestige and defense of our language. I'm not talking about culture anymore. The data I'm going to take are also official and general to the extent that culture reflects personality, the identity of a people, and it's also an instrument of our language. We increased from EUR 141.06 million in 2004 to EUR 57.7 million in the 2015 budgets. This is the second huge "D" of the policies that the Government of Feijóo has developed. And the third one, which probably hurts all the men and women in this country most likely: that of folklore trapping, like the initiative we lived yesterday. That's good! It's good to escape the responsibilities and to believe that the dossier of culture and language is arranged by celebrating one day a year or four people or making a floral contest in a Galician village with the patronage of the Union. It's good to think that makes sense! Making politics is something else, it's not looking at it, it's doing it, it's having a plan. And the only plan we've had so far is – as I just said – that of DDT. The only one: discrediting our language, despising from institutions. Remember that of "cool bilingualism." At that moment when the Councillors of the Galician Union, at which the delegates of the People's Party's Government, when the phrase of "cordial bilingualism" came out, spoke part of their speech to the Greek public and to the other part in Spanish. That was the example. Fortunately they gradually understood that this was not bilingualism, that was to do the ridiculous thing, and they've already corrected it. But they started this way, bilingualism even stagnated in public acts. Real nonsense, even in any bilingual country like Galicia, and that no one denies that he has two languages. Well, that same position that was shown out was what abated the policies that were being unfolded. A bilingualism of appearance, to put the Greek language in the situation in which it is now found. And in view of that, what do we get? When the IGE itself sees the situation in which we are, two things: First, socialist gentlemen, you copy, they told us yesterday. No, Mr. Baamonde, when all Galicia tells you who is ruling that you have a problem, and that this problem goes beyond the politics of every day, which is an existential problem, when you tell the Royal Academy, when you tell it from the Departments of Philosophy, when you tell it all the political forces, the cultural associations, the people of this country, it's not that the Socialist Party copies, it's that the People's Party has no more than deaf ears to reality. And so he doesn't understand the consequences, he hasn't even matured, of the policies he's made and where they're taking us. That's the real problem we're living in. So they stop appearing once and for all and do things, because the policies of appearance – which they really like these days – lead to truly unique problems. We have just seen the appearance of a law of participation in Greek citizenship; an appearance that makes no one dare to say out loud – except some voices – that is an absolute invasion of the House's Rules of Procedure. That a law cannot say or regulate parliamentary control of the Government by citizens, because parliamentary control, according to the Statute, regulates it by the Rules of Procedure of the House, with a constitutional statutory reservation. That you cannot present in this Parliament to appear a law of political parties financing which is an organic law given by the State, you can amend the Act of Elections to the Parliament of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u233	Go finish, please, Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u234	...–yes– and we'll see what comes with the Transparency Law. I'm just asking you, Counselor, the questions are raised, whether we're planning on doing something with our language or whether we can continue to harm it with the policy of appearances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u235	Thank you, Mr. Caamaño. Mr. Román Rodríguez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u236	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today we have a new opportunity to speak of the Greek language; we have already done it these days on many occasions, and I would like to reiterate again a master line that I think is important to all, so we all understand each other. This master line is that we must all work to prestigious the Greek and to abandon absolutely sterile struggles. It can't be what we saw yesterday in this House. It can't be that we're all day breaking those points of confluence and collective consensus that we've given ourselves. It can't be that yesterday it was questioned here, and today it's done again, the celebration of Galleges' Day, even when it comes to questioning the impulse, capacity, the competences that the Royal Gallega Academy has, can't be. And it can't be that you're constantly questioning those identity symbols that unite us, which must contribute to our unity as a country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the People's Party of Galicia, the Union, its Government, which, by the way, is the Government that the Greeks want it to be, they suggest that the language – and we have told it on many occasions – is one of the main riches we have as a country, is one of the main signs of identity. And everyone, we must work, we must strive and reach consensus in this area. We can understand that the nationalist forces have an impulse, have an unaccustomed force in this matter, we can understand it. The Greeks understand less. In fact, I'm a force that tends to be smaller and smaller, because, ladies and gentlemen, Galician society is more Galeguist than nationalist. I think that's something we all know, and in the political sphere we should listen – as we said here – to people. And in people, among people in the street, there is a great normality and there is a fairly high coexistence of use among our languages. Surely on the street you and we will talk indistinctly to people in both languages, and nothing happens at all, it's absolutely normal. And that normality should be transferred to the political realm. And you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are obsessed with following the line that marks others, and that frankly is not good for you – which we do not care, obviously – but it is not good for the prestige of the language, because differences may exist, and there is, and it is very positive that there are differences and that there is freedom for everyone to express themselves in what he wants, of course, but the defense of language coexistence – we call it what we call it – and, above all, the individual decisions of people in their private sphere, in their personal sphere, must be above all, must be very above confrontation. And it doesn't help the Greek for anything when we're following up on positions – we understand – minorities. And here he spoke of Mr. Fraga. In the hemerotheques too, we see socialists appeal to the work done by Mr. Fraga. Obviously, you'll understand that we too, and we respect it absolutely, for us it's a source of inspiration, it's a guide. But this policy, which is that of Mr Fraga, is what we are following: bilingualism, promotion of the Greek in all fields, with regard to the prevailing legality and, above all, with regard to the freedom of everyone to decide to use it in their private and individual areas, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And this policy, which is what we follow and what Mr. Fraga followed, followed her too, Mr. Touriño. And I'm sure Mr. Touriño applauded this policy. At least he did it at first, until he was allowed to do it again. Mr. Tourin assuredly applauded her and indeed made a continuation line with Mr. Fraga's policy, which is what we do now. The debate, the political debate we know. The consensus, who broke the consensus, who pushed the measure and who approved the measure that broke the consensus? They know it, they know it perfectly. And obviously, we're talking again about language issues, IGE data, RAG statements. But we cannot be constantly arguing about these issues, I have said in this House: we must work more on what unites us and not on what separates us, because most of the Greek society doesn't understand or share the positions, in this case, of the nationalist forces – very respectable and very licit – that have always historically criticized and criticised by system the linguistic policy of the Union; whoever is in front of it. Because, Mr. Caamaño, you are a party that has also suffered direct criticism, even calling it "mythics", mythics critical of some nationalist MPs to their political formation. And you and your party should know. Despite being government partners, he was criticized – I insist – by myths in this area. That's why it surprises the Socialist Party's stance. We can understand the German nationalist party, the Block, we can understand it; but we don't understand that position of not being anywhere, a net position, as you spoke yesterday, of bell tower, of the tower of Berenguela, is its position, of the tower of Berenguela, because you really don't know where they're going. Because – I insist – you also suffered them. And Mr. Touriño I'm sure he would share the position of the current Galician Union with regard to languages. Because the position of the People's Group and the position of the People's Group are undoubtedly agreed upon by the majority, by the vast majority, not by all, but by the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because the Germans and the Galicians normally see the coexistence of languages, of the Greek and of the Spanish, without any kind of problem. And look, we don't just have to listen to a few, because, of course, if we just listen to a few, yes, we can think that everything is the part, or that the part is the whole. No, no, we have to listen to the whole of the Greeks in some way to see where we really are. And we should listen to the whole of society, we should listen to people on the street and see that there's a huge normality in the use of Greek. And you quoted here, Mr. Caamaño, the IGE data, and the IGE data I've also told you here, that is, the IGE data tells us that the Greek continues and remains the majority language of Galicia. They tell us that oral knowledge, writing and capacity are all the highest in the history of Galicia. In Galicia's history there has never been a greater oral and written knowledge in reading than what is now, and that's what education administration guarantees, and that's what the decree of plurilingualism that you so criticize: a balanced teaching, which, by the way, is what you are proposing and what most of Galician society wants, as we can also see in a little bit ago in an inquiry. And they're talking about the fall of talkers. I'd tell them to look at the data and see them all. From 2003 to 2013, there has been a fall of speakers, indeed, of fourteen points. But from 2003 to 2008, where there were government responsibilities of forces that were not the People's Party, the fall is twelve points. From 2008 to 2013 it's two points. If you want to believe in ideas like the ones we just heard in the last question, ask the president, but you're aware they're wrong; they're drawing conclusions without any sense. To associate the use of Greek with one policy or another is meaningless, because people speak the language they want in their private domain and use the language they want in their own personal sphere. And that's what we have to respect. What the Administration has to guarantee, and it's doing it, is knowledge of the use of Welsh, and data shows that it's the highest level of oral and written knowledge in recent years. And I repeat that the same data tells us that between 2003 and 2008 twelve down points -- between 2008 and 2013 two down points. Look, we have been looking for consensus in recent times. In fact, in 2013, not long ago, an initiative was adopted in this House that wanted to come back, not back, but to recover some of our policies by consensus, and it wasn't possible, it wasn't possible. Dialogue process opened. You, Mr. Caamaño, I believe that at that time you were a spokesperson – yes, finished, Mr. President – and Mr. Valentín García, Secretary General of Linguistic Policy, interviewed, and I think you have moved your concern and will to dialogue. Obviously, we were unable to try to draw bridges with you, but we kept betting on it, we kept betting on understanding. We're still thinking that in the political sphere we have to do what's normal on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u237	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u238	...that there is an understanding and that there is a good dialogue between the parties. I'm done, Madam President, saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u239	No, your time is up, Counselor. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] No, Counselor, it's over. [[Applause]] Groups that want to intervene. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u240	Thank you, President. We're intervening today in the interrogations so that BNG and AGE don't have a PNL and a question to the Government, something totally absurd if you look from the point of view that you look at, but here we're intervening in the interrogations and then we'll intervene in the corresponding motions. We intervened in this interrogation about the alarming deterioration in the process of natural transmission of our language. The Greek Government decides that it is not their competence that the language falls, it is in the fall free and decides to cross arms and blame families. It's the fault of the families, who don't transmit orally, don't speak to their sons and daughters in Welsh, as if it had nothing to do with the language policy that goes ahead by the board of Galicia. In 2001, it could still be concluded that Greek was the language of the Greek speakers, most of the Greeks and the Greeks. Today it doesn't happen that way anymore, mainly because there's been a loss of a lot of the Greek population speaking among the youth. At this point, a question must be asked: if the statistical data that projects this graph reflected the Spanish situation in Galicia, what would Mr Feijóo do? If we were told that in Galicia people don't speak Spanish, that's not their language, that they don't use it, that almost a lot of people don't understand it, there'd probably be a campaign from Madrid to empower and positively discriminate against Spanish. But since it's German that disappears, and as you think in Spanish, they don't worry about it disappearing. And it's a political issue, you talk about living together when we're in a situation where we're in a domain of one language over another, and a domain that applies from the Galician Union itself. I remember when I entered this Parliament, I remember Mr. Pedro Arias, his first intervention in Spanish, defending in this gallery that Spanish and Greek could be used indistinctly. That is not a positive discrimination for a language that is disappearing, for a language that corresponds solely to this country, that if we don't remember it, we don't take care of it, we don't save it, it will die. And you and your politics are precipitating the death of the Greek, they're betting that the Greek dies. A carelessness of the tongue that has no parallel and has no excuse. But, besides, it's a scandal when we move around Galicia and see the toponyms in Spanish. There's no way to move around our country in an identity, where we recognize our country in the names of places. We must also appreciate that we are in a new situation, in a situation other than those of other years. We're at a time when information technologies globalize everything, and Galician is not on the Internet. So everything our country's young and girls receive over the Internet is received in Spanish. And the Union does nothing, it does not promote any initiative, nor does it support the Greek press, the Greek websites; there is no betting policy for the Greek. This data, saving the distance, requires a call like that made in 1916 by Villar Ponte last century, which would give rise to the creation of the Brotherhood of Speech. Saving the distances, because the language scene has changed radically just like I said. If by that time about 90% of the population used Greek to teach them how to speak to their sons and daughters, because it was their language of identity, today our language has recovered fields of culture, but for most of the Greek children and the Greek children it is no longer their language of identity. The generational transmission of the language is being lost and the statistical data are revealing that the Greek is losing land in broad sectors of society. All of this happens with a statistical framework that covers the use of English, with a law of linguistic normalization, with a public Welsh radio and television, with dozens of language planning campaigns, with hundreds of dynamization teams scattered by educational centers. It is urgent to put in place short, medium and long-term action measures. There is a need for a national agreement by language. A national agreement that determines the path of recovery of our language, determining the minimums evaluable in the agreed periods of time. An inclusive national agreement, which involves most social sectors, implementing measures and mechanisms to ensure the transmission and real use of Galicia's own language. A national agreement that enables people to exercise their rights in their daily lives; something that is not guaranteed today. I've had problems, for example, in the trial, with Greek businessmen asking a translator from Greek to Spanish because they don't understand Greek. That's an assault on the Greek, an aggression which cannot be allowed, which must be openly rejected by the German Government. We need a national agreement to create a national platform, equipped with the necessary resources, and in which they are present from the business world, associationism, trade unions, the media, families, education, justice, health. It's great, I was at Vigo General Hospital the other day, and the information to the patients in those dyptics that they distribute was only in Spanish, there was no information in English. It is essential that a clear and firm policy of positive discrimination be taken into account in relations with citizens and citizens. This discrimination of Greek can never be perceived by the citizen as a forced or subordinate ritual. The Greek Government must end the impunity that is being produced in many educational centres that do not respect the poor rule of law in the field of normalization. It's an absolute fallacy or understanding that in the education system it tends to guarantee balanced competition in both languages, because it's not. It's impossible to do so because it's not part of the principle of equality, it starts from two languages positioned in a very different way: one dominant and the other dominated. So we can't start a balance, but, as I said, a positive discrimination. There are few examples of the companies that bet on the Greek language as a language of communication, and yet we see, for example, in the announcements of Gadis and other companies, the success of the Spanish language for companies, because it binds not only the company to the country, but it also links its products to the quality of our country, because the gales and gales, unlike our Government, are proud and proud of what we produce in our country. The retreat in the use of Greek in the media is tremendous. This government is done with all the media in English...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u241	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u242	...and, however, no bet on recovering them, there's not even the slightest way to recover. They proliferate local radio and television stations today, it is necessary to increase the presence of Welsh in these areas of communication and to encourage correction in the use of Greek, precisely with those professionals of the media that are currently unemployed, with problems to access a job, while our language dies, and while it is shameful to listen to Galician Television, where translation is painful, where there is a gale of grief. Nearly 70% of the cultural consumption of youth is related to the world of video games, and yet the Galician Union refuses to promote the realization of cinema or video games in Welsh. There's no games for children, there's hardly any literature for children in English. We therefore consider it essential to implement positive discrimination policies as soon as possible. There is a very important starting point: the General Linguistic Standardisation Plan, adopted unanimously in this Parliament in 2004. It's a solid starting point. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, stop playing the frontal with these issues; it's an irresponsibility that will end with our language. It's less bad that you'll stop ruling before. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u244	Thank you very much. I, today, which is a day when we have been allowed to speak of injuries and inconveniences since this rostrum, I also have to say that I regret that since the presidency of Parliament we do not recognize the abuse and degradation that in the past full lived in this case a fellow BNG, Carmen Adán, unjustly expelled for wanting and claiming the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the House Of course, I am sorry that from this rostrum, of which we are asked so much, something which the Presidency itself must recognise in a writing, is not publicly recognized here and does not lift up that – let us say – action, that clearly embraces and conculates the rights of the Members and Members of this House and has concluded the regulation. [[Applause]] And already on the subject that we're dealing with today, I'm going to borrow a sentence that often quotes the spokesperson of the People's Party on language, which is a sentence by Groucho Marx, in which it's said that "policy is the art of making a false diagnosis and applying wrong remedies." Today, Counselor, you have made that sentence of Groucho Marx real, and you have made politics, in this case of linguistic policy, a false diagnosis to which you are applying wrong remedies. They have to make a false diagnosis, because it is a lie, Counselor, that there is equal knowledge. And whenever you want, we can sit down and project on this screen what the Galician Institute of Statistics says. What does the Galego Institute of Statistics say? There's no equal knowledge. In fact – and I read textually – it says: "In 2013, the population under 15 years old who says that he can speak little or nothing the Greek increases up to 22.70%." I don't know, Counselor, if this seems to you that it's equal knowledge, that one in four under 15 makes sure he doesn't know how to speak little or nothing in English. How can you continue to fear that there is equality when the data itself from the Galego Institute of Statistics is what they're saying is that they're leading to the ignorance of the Greek to a part of the population with their linguistic policies. Please, a little rigor and a little seriousness. Because you may still be afraid to do these manipulations of reality, but you know you can't fool everyone all the time, it's impossible. Just as we can't be bitten by the Members of this House; they can't limit our freedom of expression; they can't limit our freedom of expression; they can say that even though you actually have a judge Ruz's car that says that the People's Party has been illegally funded and that there are black money. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, stop manipulating reality and stop playing with one of the most important elements that identify us as a people, which is our language, because you lack not only the least ethical and democratic principles, but lack the intelligence of all the Greeks and the Greeks with this kind of intervention. It is also false, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that we are facing a debate which can be summed up in a problem of individual freedom. Because this seems to you that language is a problem of individual freedom, that one rises in the morning and says: well, today I'm going to speak freely in Swahili, or tomorrow it says, because I'm going to speak freely in German. You know that's not the frame where we move. And one of the most important problems to be able to freely exercise the use of languages is that there is equality. We've already said that they're driving a part of the Greek population out of their knowledge of the Greek language. It's data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. I insist: I challenge that you go and let's look at it and say whether or not it's what that inquiry from the Galician Institute of Statistics says. But let's go back to free choice. And is there a free choice to live in German, Counselor? We can try. There is equality and freedom to decide whether you read the press in English or Spanish, or whether, as Mrs. Adam told me in the children's field, you buy one of the most seen cartoon DVDs, do you have the choice in English? No, choose mostly in Spanish and Catalan; not in English. Something's going to happen to language policy. Can we choose whether we go to the cinema in English or not? Can we choose whether the power company, which is looting our country and looting the pockets of the Greeks, don't they even care about us in German? Language is not an individual problem, it is a social problem. And besides in the case of Greek, a language that is despised and abused, about which there are still many prejudices, many people freely choose nothing, there is simply a very clear imposition of a language A, which is Spanish, against a language that is in clear, social and legal inequality. There is no legal equality in the Spanish State with regard to the use of the language. And we're seeing it and we're seeing it clearly even with the attitude of the State Government itself, which does not accept documentation issued in English, which goes against any principle and any minimally normalizing policy. But there's also another big lie: the People's Party insists that its linguistic policy has nothing to do with the situation in Greek, this is a problem of freedom. Ah! But, however, when we talk about Catalonia, the People's Party criticizes the Catalan Government's policy, because it says it strongly supports Catalan. It's more: the People's Party says that in Catalonia a lot of Catalan is spoken because the Government supports it. In Euscadi there was a policy to support the recovery of the Basque, and it is giving its fruits, there is a recovery of the use of the tongue. So what's good for Euscadi in a positive sense or for Catalonia, isn't it good for Galicia? The Basque and Catalan governments have responsibilities for the situation of their language and the German Government, don't they? You know that, in fact, the language policy they're pursuing has consequences. Consequences that in the field, for example, education – of what we have talked about so much – the Greek in cities, which was where it was most needed to increase its presence in childhood education, are eradicated in practice by 3%. And they know it's fundamental to fix the language that has an important presence in the children's language. But you eradicate them, because you must consider that Greek is a toxic language, if not, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we don't understand the politics that you are doing in that area. So, of course, the situation has much to do with the actions and allocations of the Galician Union. Look, we've been having 30 years with a law of linguistic normalization that hasn't even managed that in those areas directly dependent on the Administration the Greek language is normalized, and we have retreats even in those areas. You talk to the advisor who's sitting next to him, to the health counselor, and ask him why in the healthcare field, the Greek is not normalized. You talk to Mr. Rueda and ask him why in the field of justice the use of Greek is a heroic exercise of the militancy of people who are not willing to have the language of this country treated as a foreign language. So, Counselor, if you want us to be serious, we'll talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u245	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u246	...you can try to reduce this to a PSOE, BNG debate... but don't you realize what you're doing? It doesn't realize that this frivolity with which you come here is the fact that you're interested in language policies. You've just been appointed there's nothing and it shows that, of course, they actually come here without any kind of will to change anything, to keep up with everything. But what are we talking about, Counselor, about this? Truly, listening to them scares you; for you discrimination is normal, that the language of Greek is discriminated against is normal. And that's peaceful coexistence? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of course it does not contain with us for this, because we know that behind the future of language is at stake our collective dignity, our future is at stake as a people and our own survival, because, indeed, the People's Party and this government, which is really not a government of Galicia, which is a bad delegation of the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, who only know how to faithfully obey their dictates, are clearly committed to a new policy of dom and castration of this country. That is why these institutions allow the luxury of trampling on democratic rights of Members and Members, who do not do so at the Congress of Members. They do it here because they don't have respect for this country, or for the Greeks and the Greeks who feed them. And also because you guys have been doing this little Xaquín Marin cartoon for a long time today, which I think graphically summarizes what we're living in. Tell one old man to another, "There are politicians who don't realize that if there's no language, there's no country." Maybe that's what they want... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u248	...seems to be clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u250	Good morning to all and to all. The truth is that we have had a lot and a lot of discussion on this subject, but the German Government has always been insensitive in terms of the English language. I'll try to incorporate some different approach today, because in addition to the weight reasons they've already been said with force. On January 30, 2015, the Royal Galega Academy, through an institutional statement, literally stated: "Statistical data come to point out a worrying retreat from the use of Greek in recent years, especially among the new generations, exacerbating a historical trend that can lead to decadence." At the beginning of that same January, the Galician Council of Culture stated, for its part, that there is a danger of breaking through the generational transmission of the Greek language. The ProLingua collective also called at the beginning of this year so that 2015 would be the collective decision to change the catastrophic course of our language. The Bureau for Linguistic Standardization denounced these dates as IGE data reflect that there are fewer people who speak English, as well as the contempt and disgruntling of the Government of Galician Union by our language. The Interuniversity Committee on Linguistic Policy has also made it available to the Greek Government to assess the consequences and results of the so-called "Decree of Plurilingualism". The Sectoral Table of Education, the Galicia School Council... we could follow it all day. There is therefore an obvious unanimity with regard to the analysis of the policies of the Greek Government in linguistics. As far as the opposition parties are concerned, what can we say? One day after another, in full and in commission, we came demanding and demanding a powerful action by the German Government in defense of the language. And in the face of this unanimous social, political and institutional outcry, what is the Government doing? Well, in the full past, the Education Councillor called for "satisfied", we understand that he was asking for common sense. It's a noble claim but always and when that little sense, that common sense, don't give up science, epistemology. Because we have to be cautious, because by common sense there were moments in history when it was said that the Earth was flat or motionless, and this was done for centuries. Common sense, yes, but we also appeal to science and epistemology. Perhaps the counsellor referred to what Descartes and Malebranche called "good sense," ultimately to reason. If the counsellor appealed to reason and logic, we have to resort to empirical evidence, and in the debate about the causes of the Greek situation, we can discuss much and wide, debate and even counter-views on which are the causes of the loss of spokespersons of Greek. But there are two issues that specifically address this government, which are true scientific and empirical evidence. The first evidence: the Greek Government has reduced funding for the promotion of the Greek language by 70% since 2009, from 21.5 million euros to 6.7 euros devoted in 2015; empirical evidence already mentioned by the proposed group of this interpellation. Second evidence: the German Government has changed, giving a sudden turn since its arrival in the government, language policy in the Welsh educational system, establishing a model called "harmonic bilingualism", which coincides exactly with the descent of speakers of the Greek language at school age. These are two empirical and unappetizing evidences. So it's evidence that also affects the actions and actions of the German Government. So it's obvious that that's where the German Government has to act on these two subjects as a matter of priority. But instead of being a serious, minimally coherent government that assumes its competences and obligations, what does the Greek Government do? So to build three escape lines, three cutters: the first is to say that this problem already existed when the bipartite – recurrent argument – ruled; secondly, to circumvent its responsibility and to say that this problem has a familiar source; and thirdly, to question the data offered by different bodies and institutions. And this strategy, an escapist strategy, had as a consequence something equally obvious, which was the change of consensus; we attended an era of change of consensus. Faced with an existing consensus reflected in the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization, where all agents agreed on the need to activate differential policies for the benefit of Greek to dynamize the language, we have reached a new consensus, and it is the consensus of the need to do something urgently and imminently to rescue the Greek. A consensus – the current – that recognizes that the situation of the Greek is critical, a consensus that indicates that the number of speakers in the English language is decreasing and a consensus that admits that the areas of use of the Greek decrease. In that consensus we are all, except you, gentlemen of the People's Party; except you, Counselor and the Government that you represent. So it's good to claim the common sense, the sentinel, but the sentinel and the common sense tell us that in something must be wrong when you are alone holding that theoretical and scientific aberration which is harmonic bilingualism. That's why I'm telling the Greek Government that you have to react, that you have to get out of that iron cage in which you're against the Greek language, and that you therefore have to implement decided policies of linguistic normalization because the situation is serious. Counselor, stop slipping the bulk, that's reality, that's your obligation. We live in a country – as it has already been said – where it is absolutely impossible to go to the cinema to see a film in English, where you can't read a published, written newspaper, of daily roll written in Greek; a country where in many administrations citizens cannot be treated in their own language. It's absurd to maintain that there is a situation of equalizing the two languages. We live in a social context where Spanish has the consideration of a language of prestige still today in the scientific field, in the economic field, in the digital field, in leisure... so we have to make divergent policies for the benefit of Greek. That's why they have to recover unanimity in defense of the language and not stand alone in their indifference. The other day a journalist told me an anecdote I was going to finish with. He told me that he had been testifying in a pretrial trial and that he had given a statement in Greek, where he reported the facts of his testimony. When he finished his statement, the judge's secretary proceeded to read his testimony and read it in Spanish. And when he told him if he agreed with his testimony, he said, "No, I did my testimony in English," and the secretariat said, "Honey, I find it absurd now to have to translate it into Greek." That's the reality we live in. We live in a reverse world, where Greek is considered a second language by many sectors, even in the official sectors. And that's what needs to be changed. You have to change your language policy, Counselor, if you want to regain your consensus for what you have lawyer on repeated occasions. Because you're alone, they're the only ones who want to attack the English language, they're the only ones who want to attack the culture and identity of the people of Galicia, who reside in good measure also in our own language. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u251	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Before starting with the content of the inquiry, let me make a note of what Mrs. Martínez said, that the people of the People's Party thought in Spanish. Mrs. Martínez, I don't think it's necessary to tell you that the largest number of Galician spokespersons are justly from the People's Party, and we're spared most of Galician society. And allow me a confession: Mr. Counselor and I all life we speak in Greek, if one day he to me or I to him we go to in Spanish I'm sure one will ask the other: who are you coming? [[Applause]] Because we think and express ourselves in Greek, Mrs. Martínez. I am now entering the question of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Mr. Caamaño was doing it by appealing to seriousness and appealing to the need for political action. Well, after listening to him, to me the first thing that comes to my mind is that of "A sonnet commands me to do Violant / that in my life I have seen me in such a hurry; / fourteen verses say it is sonnet; / ridicule mocking go the three ahead." Mr. Caamaño, what you just did here is the sound of the sonnet, that is, a pure rhetorical exercise without any practical content. Now, of course, you do it intentionally, because you do it to conceal what you really want to know about this House and what you want to know about the Greeks and the Greeks, which is pure and simply what is, if you really have any, the Socialist Party's position on the linguistic problem. [[Applause]] As Mr. Counselor well said, you have a problem, Mr. Caamaño, you have a serious problem. Every time they talk about the language and put themselves in front of the mirror, the image that appears reflected is not their image, the image that appears reflected is the image of the Galician Nationalist Block, because the mirror does not lie. [[Murmurs.]] And you're all they do is reproduce the policy of the Galician Nationalist Block. Therefore, they are exactly as wrong as nationalism both in diagnosis and in the treatment of the problem. As far as the diagnosis is concerned, of course, Mr Caamaño, you start by claiming the derogation from the Multilingualism Decree. They keep insisting that the thrust of the problem, the cause of the problem is in teaching. And the IGE doesn't say that at all. If you read – which I suppose you read – but if you took into consideration the magnificent work of Professor Mauro Fernández, you would understand perfectly that what the survey says is that "as students progress in the education system improve the perfection of the Greek", with which the education system is working properly. What the IGE says is that the problem is out there, just when the boys get out of class, it's when the problem starts. And then you're wrong to read Galician social reality. You're talking about the President of the Board blaming the families of the problem and talking about demography and demographic movements as excuses. No, Mr. Caamaño, the president of the board puts the chauffeur in the exact place of the problem. Of course, demography affects the Welshman. Look, villages and places are disappearing all the time, within a few decades, hundreds of them will have disappeared. And that certainly affects the Greek, not what Mrs. Pontón says, that if we consider it to be rural Greek and urban Spanish, no, it does it for a very different reason. Because most Galician speakers sleep by family transmission, and logically when this population decline occurs, the rupture of the generational transmission occurs. Mrs. Pontón, I don't say so, you pay attention to Mr. Monteagudo, you pay attention to Mr. Freixanes, you pay attention to Professor Carlos Ferrás, for they're clearly telling him that demography is actually an important problem for Greek, and population displacements towards urban areas also play logically against Greek. In the urban nucleus, the social context is much stronger than a family nucleus, and the language tends to be used as a communication element, not as an element of identity. Logically, generational transmission is broken and, worse, an inverted access process is being started: where parents used to transmit Greek to their children, it's now the children who impose their criteria on many parents. That's one of the important problems of Greek. And those who are monolinguists in Greek prefer to educate their children in Spanish, because of that strong social pressure that they are subjected to in the urban nuclei. So the problem is how to reverse that situation, how to reverse that circumstance. And to reverse that circumstance, of course, the first thing to remind you of is not always to focus on the social reality, not to look for the causes, not to find a solution to the sociological problem that the Greek has, but to talk about the government's action. They consider the Government to be the key to the nuts and the only one who has the solution to the problem. And, of course, there are two ways for the Government to address this problem: one – that you defend – that the Government has to do through the decree, to do it through the imposition; another – that we defend ourselves – that the Government has to do the defense of the Greek, indeed as a public policy that corresponds to it, but that it has to do it through the conviction of the consensus and through the social agreement, that which called for Mrs Martínez. Mr. Caamaño, you're always in a position of indefinition, trying to conceal your posture, he says he doesn't talk about taxation, but then in practice you follow the exact line, Mrs. Pontón's script. Yes, yes, Mrs. Pontón, first of all, follows Mrs. Pontón's decree, and you ask for a derogation from the Bill of Bilingualism. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, it seems to me very good to do it, but you have to explain here and to the Galician society, yes, Mr. Caamaño, if the Socialist Party wants to go back to the former system, it wants to go back to the system of at least 50% in German and then get to 90% through all the trunks in Greek. Tell him if he really does. The Socialist Party is against learning foreign languages. Well, you're in your perfect right to say it, but then tell it clearly and tell it to the Greek society. You say you want to override the decree and return to the previous situation. Mrs. Pontón advocates because the penetration and use of Greek in the administration, in health, in the company, in the other social elements is done through the DOG, and she wants to impose monolingualism in Greek, of course yes. But his posture is perfectly rational, it's perfectly coherent and logical, because for nationalism language is the nuclear element of his concept of nation. All nationalism works that way. So when Mrs. Pontón speaks of language survival, I suppose what she's referring to is the need for the Greek BNG for its own survival as a political force, not the other way around. I say, Mr. Caamaño, that you, in fact, want to follow the political line of nationalism and that you therefore want Greek to be imposed through the decree; we would be delighted to do so. What we want is the dissemination of Greek through consensus. But, of course, there is a need for definite postures to spread through consensus. The one of nationalism we know what it is; we know perfectly what it is also, it is specified, explained to it by Mr. Counsellor and I resolve it in four basic points: not to monolinguism, neither in English or Spanish, we bet......we will......by bilingualism, people who know the two languages and who can use them both; we defend the co-feficiality of Greek and Spanish in accordance with the Spanish Constitution and the Statute; we defend the recognition of Greek as Galicia's own language, with discriminatory measures in their favor; we defend balance in teaching; and we defend freedom of use. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] What happens is that the Socialist Party has absolutely no criteria, and instead of asking the Counsellor, you'll have to ask them what they want to do with the Greek, because what they're doing... No, but I'll explain, but if I explain what they're doing, they're doing with the pure and simple Greek demagogy, which have no posture, Mr. Lumba, I'll explain... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u253	Finish it, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u254	...or they don't, or they don't, or they hide it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u256	If they have it, it's not the one they're defending now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u257	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u258	...it's not that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u259	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. [[Mr. Baamonde Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Time's up, Mr. Baamonde, it's over. No, no, it's over. [[Mr. Baamonde Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Baamonde, it's over. [[Applause]] It's just that now we're following the president's line, as it goes from line to line, it's over. It's over, time's up. Replica round, Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u260	Thank you, President. Although I was the interpelent, I was questioned up to eighteen times, or nineteen. Let's see if we give too many quotes to not always repeat the same thing, because we're tired of always listening to the same thing. [[Applause]] Let's see what the Socialist Party's position is; it's quite clear. Look, I'm going to tell you, I also noted to make it clear to the counselor, who's the one who directly intercepts him. The first of the questions: the Galician language is Galician language, and it is the official language with Spanish in the autonomous community. You agree, don't you? Well, then, why don't they, why do they hide the words "own language" in the Law of Universities and in all decrees, in all norms? What happens to justify that it is not only the Greek, but also the Spanish, what complex do they have? Because that's what they do when they amend. They're afraid to say "own language" because, of course, bilingualism is no longer harmonic. That's what the Galician Autonomy Statute says. Second problem or second assertion: everyone has the right to freely use the language of their choice. In order for everyone in Galicia to freely use the language of their choice, they must be able to address themselves to the Self-Government, and the person responsible to whom they meet the Greek. You, not any other government, nor any other community, nor any country where there are more than two official languages... you, Mr. Feijóo's government has taken away the obligation of knowledge of the Greek in the Public Service. How do I freely use my tongue? Can you explain it to me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why rather than assume their roles and competences, which is to defend them and allow the people we live in Galicia to use the language of their choice, do you recognize that those who hold a public office in the Union have the right to ignore Galicia's own official language? [[Murmurs.]] Tell him. That's why we're not with you, not for anything else. It's just that you don't do what they say; they say one thing and they always do another, and in the meantime they ruin our language. Third element – and of course also – we believe that the Galician Union, the Government of Galicia, within the Constitution, of course, and the Statute of autonomy, has an obligation to defend our language, protection and potential, because it is a minority language within a group, not only at the state level, at the national level, but also at the global level. But what we can't afford is for the Galician Union to make a minority language a minority language and work for it. That's what you're doing day by day with your complexes the new variant of the People's Party since President Feijóo arrived. That's reality, and that's why we're saying it. And I'm going to put two clarine examples to see that we didn't copy anyone: First, when LOMCE is approved, which has directly affected the language in the education system, there was a Basque country government which, in addition to presenting an unconstitutional remedy, has negotiated with Mr Wert and has reached an agreement, which you can therefore read, approved by the Government of Spain, on 28 September 2013 – is published in the BOE – where it maintains two things, and I do not enter there where the school councils will have decision-making functions – and this gave us Wert, can read it –, within which they can not intervene in language qualification issues in the Basque Country. I mean, they made a defense of their linguistic interests. Did I do something to Junta de Galicia for defending against LOMCE the linguistic interests, which, however, the Government of Spain itself recognized the Basque Country?, do I say something? On the contrary, applying it without asking absolutely anything about the impact that that law can have on a community that has its own language. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He didn't do anything. [[Murmurs.]] And I didn't want to talk anymore, because that's what worries me most about everything, it's not a question of PSOE, it's not a question of Galego Nationalist Block, it's a question of AGE, it's not a question of PP, it's a matter of country. It's the position they're having in this reality. It seems that what we're talking about is leaving the PSOE in an inexplicable position. Look, you do whatever you want, but explain to the Greeks the reality. And please, Counselor, assume the responsibility that you have in accordance with the Constitution and do something about our language, don't let him die every day in a game of appearances, like, for example – and I'm finished, Mr. President – this is "Let's celebrate thirty years of the first sentence in English"; in that we spend the money. After that sentence there was another, that of the Prestige, and some more, but it's practically impossible to address the state's judicial power in Galicia speaking in our own language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u261	Thank you, Mr. Caamaño. Shuttle tower, Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We attended a debate, I think it's very interesting, where there were interesting political concepts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] One of the central reasons for this debate is the different conception that we have of the political groups of individual freedom, of freedom of persons, on such an intimate and personal issue as the use of language. [[Murmurs.]] The Administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u263	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u264	The Administration guarantees knowledge of two languages. Now, people personally bet on their use, and they do it free. And look, we as Administration have what we have to do, and that's what we're doing, is betting on boosting their use in a kind way, seeking complicity, seeking volunteerism, not imposing, not inquisitively. That's not what we're going to do, because we understand that people's freedom is very important, it's a fundamental question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u265	Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u266	If we don't take that principle into account, we hardly understand the rest. And you bet on a very different conception than we have. Secondly, I also think it's interesting, which came here today: the use of data. We've even talked about the need to have clear data. Well, obvious data from the IGE tell us that "there has never been a greater oral and written knowledge of Galician language" in Galician history, never. [[Applause]] The second question in which I think they're wrong, which has also been spoken here, and is linked to the previous one: you speak and bind the evolution of use to politics. You link the voluntary use of a language to the issues of political promotion and political affection to Greek. Data: year 2003-2008, twelve drop points of use of the English language in people between 5 and 14 years. They would have to see you then, because at that time you were ruling. If you link the use of the language to the use of Greek, really the data is: 2003-2008, twelve download points; 2008-2013, two download points. Your argument falls on its own. [[Applause]] Third and most interesting question, ladies and gentlemen. There are two different perceptions of Galicia, two perceptions and two interpretations of Galicia. For some Galicia, it's only Greek, and there must be only one language in Galicia. That's the stance of nationalists, which is lawful, we respect it, it's lawful; not that you don't respect ours; we respect yours, it's lawful. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not shared by the vast majority of Galician society, because, if not, you would have overwhelming electoral support, which they don't have; it's more, more and less. That's a matter of seeing the country, it's yours, you know, we respect it. What is our way of seeing the country and interpreting the languages? We understand that Galicia is a plural society, that there are two languages, that in the institutional and administrative field it has to dominate the Greek and we have to support the Greek, and we are doing it, supporting and primacy the Greek. [[Murmurs.]] Now, we understand that also in the private sphere, in the intimate sphere, in the field of individual freedom of use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u267	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u268	...if you have to master those values: freedom of use. That's what the People's Party suggests. What we don't know is what PSOE thinks, what we don't know is what PSOE poses. Because if you were talking about it's a posture... Home!, the PSOE has posture, has a posture of... not a posture, a posture, I'd say. [[Murmurs.]] They do have a posture. Look, we have no complex, but we have no complex, and we have an absolute respect for the Constitution, the Statute, the Standardization Act and the General Plan. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Fourth question – and finished, ladies –:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u269	End, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u270	...linguistic policy. We're not alone at all. This debate was an extremely important political debate in 2009, which gave the People's Party the absolute majority. In the last elections of the year 2012 we arrived with this open question and also referred again to the politics of the People's Party, with which we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u271	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u272	...what if we think and what if we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u273	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u274	...it's a call to consensus because we understand that being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u275	...thanks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u276	... constantly discussing the language...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u277	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u278	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u279	We continue the session with the interpellations. Da María Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Joint action by the Government of Greece, within its powers, to ensure the right of workers to the perception of their full salary in the conditions laid down in the corresponding collective agreement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u280	Mrs. Martínez has the floor to formulate her inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u281	According to a complaint to the IGC, thousands of employees and employees of all types of companies in Greece do not receive their wages at the end of the month, or only receive part of them. Dozens of companies owe more than three salaries to their staff, and extraordinary wages are postponed without a fixed time limit. The IGC estimates that, only in Lugo province, there are more than 1,000 workers and more than 20 companies, including: MON Constructions, Aluminium Jucarma, EdiMeira, Ingemarga, Cefovial, Mafrilemos, Panaderia Majufer, Hotel Jorge I, Palacio de Sober and the Pajos Group, which manages public pools. The companies that have been late and paid something frequently in recent years go from microcompanies in the service sector to large administrative contracts that win public tenders with bids down. The Administration pays millions, but the companies that manage the service don't pay their workers and workers. In this case, for example, there are 75 cleaners in Cleanet Galicia – in the Iron Military Arsenal, the Figueid Brilat and the Marine Naval School –, Linorssa or Clece. Linorsa, with a staff of 700 people in Galicia, is responsible for cleaning – among other public buildings – the headquarters of Parliament, the Government delegation in Galicia, dozens of public schools, judges, Sergas offices, Alvedro airport, the Coruña bus station, and the renewal of the University of Coruña. 200 workers were affected by Linorsa's impasses, which justifies these compensations for financial problems arising from concessions to him by several municipalities. That is, again, as in the case of Povisa, the concessionaires claim financial problems because of the concessions made to them since the administration. The Administration, when not granted for friendship, chooses the most economical company, leaving without checking the possibility of fulfilling its obligations with its workers and workers and with the quality of the service. This same month, the unions reported that Clece, the current manager of the Vigo Council's family intervention programme, owes its workers more than 80,000 euros, accumulated in her payrolls since 2012. Clece continues to pay no wages, despite the fact that a court sentence so requires. This service is dedicated free of charge to all vigues and vigues who have psychological needs, behavioral disorders, ill-treatment and mental illness. Coinciding on 10 March, the unions again denounced the Gounta and the Galician network of kiosks, which depend on Cogami, with numerous Junta grants for the labour integration of people with disabilities, for the situation of abandonment they have been in since the month of October, the company has presented a number of creditors' contests. On March 10, the day of the working class in Galicia, was also the day of the start of the hunger strike of two workers and a worker in Povervisa, to which another one was added on day 16. They kept this action until Monday, a total of 14 days on hunger strike, to urge the Union to force Povervisa to attend the concert. In 14 days he didn't do anything: he didn't talk to the company committee, he didn't mediate; a total abandonment of the workers and workers and total deprotection, collaboration and impunity with the entrepreneur. Today the president of the board again lied in parliament headquarters, saying that he had mediated and had met with the government delegate. It's true in part, it's half a lie. If there was a meeting before the hunger strike started. He made a commitment to mediate and talk to management, and so far that commitment has not gone forward. Over the past few years, there have been multiple cases of companies that pay their employees several months. Some keep going to their jobs without charge, and transportation costs get out of their pockets. This job overexploitation situation is collapsing with Galician judges. The Coruña and Lugo, with a concession rate of 2.48 and 2.21, are the Welsh provinces with the most saturated social judges, and they occupy, in addition, the third and fourth place compared to the rest of the Spanish provinces. In Lugo, the three social judges are overwhelmed by the increase in labour conflict; this situation forces them to mark trials for claims of quantities at the end of this year, and even for the first months of the next year. The College of Lawyers of Santiago has denounced the collapse of the three Social Courts for the high increase in the number of cases. In Vigo, a total of 19 of the 36 judicial organs are collapsed, with a workload of more than 150%. Among these 19 are the Social Courts, the Family Courts, the Courts, the Mercantils, and section V of the Audience. There's already some social court that's calling for claims for amounts by March 2016. These kinds of demands, in addition, have no preference over others such as layoffs, substantial modification of working conditions or holiday claims. For Social Courts last year, major conflicts, such as the 59 days of strike in Urbaser, the assistant to the garbage collection and street cleaning service in Lugo. The workers who have spent more time unpaid include the staff of the Chamber of Commerce of Lugo, who continue to work, and yet have not received their wages for more than two years. The situation under way is unacceptable, and the lack of means and delays in the trials will cause justice to be perceived by citizens and the working class as useless. How will the working class defend employers' abuses if, in addition to a labour counter-reform that left her without much of their protection, they have a Government that cooperates with the most exploiting employers and a Justice so slow that it becomes unfair? The workers, in the face of unpaid wages from companies, not only make demands for a claim in order to obtain a judgment that recognizes this right and allows them to buy property from society, but in many cases opt to apply for the termination of contracts. These business actions, in addition to being illegal and unacceptable, create serious precarious situations. We're talking about the service sector, we're talking about families – the vast majority of them with precarious wages and part-time contracts – who come to jeopardize their way of life, have problems with paying their housing, to pay for energy, water, they have trouble living, and yet they work. Now in Galicia, when you don't have a job, you have to add to it two more: the drama of those who have such a precarious job that it doesn't allow them to meet their basic needs, and the drama of workers who go to work but don't charge. Thousands of employees and employees of all kinds of Greek companies are facing the dilemma at the end of each month of whether their payroll will be entered or not. What started out as a smaller practice, is a generalized and continuous tonic, companies use wage mass to obtain liquidity. In addition, it is also producing the generalization of overtime that is not paid, part-time employees who make a real day from 8 to 12 hours daily when they only charge for 4 or 6. These companies are found in sectors like naval auxiliaries, which pay different to their workers, for the same work, with abusive days. This is what's happening in two subcontracts of Navantia, in Ferrol. In Massa there are two types of workers: those who charge for the 2001 agreements between Navantia and its assistants, and the latter, hired at 400 euros less. Ainair pays 11 euros gross per hour, including prorated extras and holidays. And we wondered, were these the jobs Pemex was going to create in Ferrol? Not thousands, not legal. These business practices, in addition to being a theft of their workers' payrolls, also cause subsequent poverty in rights, lower unemployment benefit, lower retirement benefit, higher time of contributions to access pensions or unemployment benefit. In the meantime, the employer, in addition to solving its liquidity problems, guarantees less compensation when you want to get rid of the workers you're interested in. We have, above all, presented this question, and asked the Board: what actions are planned to exercise the Council of Galicia, within its powers, to guarantee the right of workers and workers to the perception of their full salary in the conditions set out in the corresponding collective agreement. And that action is intended to exercise, or is being carried out, the board of Gaulza to force concessionary public service companies to pay their payrolls to their employees and employees, demanding full compliance with the corresponding collective agreement. And by the way, just as a counselor, I want to remind you that collective agreements have a category of law and, therefore, companies are obliged to comply with them in their integrity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u283	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government is aware of the magnitude of an economic crisis that is too prolonged over time, the consequences of which, of course, have the worst impact on the number of people unemployed in our Community and other indicators as well, such as payrolls or even other indicators, such as the increase in conflicts. At no time was the Government of Unity alienated this reality, quite the contrary. From the first day we decided to deal with it, especially in order to try to change this situation, to improve the economic situation and, of course, to make positive employment indicators. I mean, our goal from the very beginning is to improve the rest of the economic situation, especially to create jobs. We do this with the different policies that we have developed in our competences within the Galician Union, and, of course, one of them is supporting companies and entrepreneurs, who really create jobs. But there's a reality that tells us that the Greek economy is better today than a year ago. It's true that we now have a growth in our economy, of gross domestic product, in black, when a year ago it was red; that there are now fewer people in unemployment, at registered unemployment, 19,000 people less; there are another series of indicators, such as membership of Social Security, where there are 12,000 people more affiliated to Social Security in the last year; a decrease in the number of creditors contests by 28% compared to other years; and even a 40% decrease in the number of workers affected in employment regulation files. Ultimately, different indicators point to that our economy is changing, and it's changing positively, if it's true it's not as fast as we would like. With regard to the subject posed by the interpelent, I am very clear that since the Labour and Welfare Council, and as labour authority, tolerance with irregularities, zero; tolerance with labour irregularities, zero. Let's see because workers' working rights are respected. And of course, we also see because we strictly comply with all the regulations. And let's see why all contracts, four hours, eight hours, if they meet exactly as they were signed. Obviously, the main mechanism that the Government of Galicia has – the same as the rest of the governments of the autonomous communities – to do so – is the Labour Inspectorate. The purpose of an inspection is neither to be a sanctionor nor a collector, quite the contrary. The objective of any inspection, especially of work, must be to protect citizens, workers and also employers, who strictly comply with the law. Within this protection it is also to see that workers earn their wages and meet the working conditions of the agreement they are subject to. The Labour Inspectorate has the ability to raise an infringement record when it detects that the company is in breach of any of these conditions. For example, it is incurable to pay wages. Thus, workers must know and know that they have this mechanism in their hands, and we trust that, of course, they all alert the Labour Inspectorate in case of non-compliance with working conditions. And in fact they do, because in 2014 there were 582 performances carried out by the Inspectorate, specifically linked to default or delay in pay payments, bearing fruit, after these inspections and visits, 78 acts of infringements. Even so, in our past year we have already carried out 116 performances in companies, through the Labour Inspectorate, by this matter: for compensation and late wages, which have resulted in 14 acts of infringements. And to be specific, the inspectoral proceedings carried out with the payment of wages, are almost always provoked by a direct complaint, or because the Labour Inspectorate has a manifest suspicion. In this inspection not only checks the payroll, but also controls the number of hours worked and even the conditions of the convention to which you are subject. That's why there are issues at stake that are as important as safety and health at work, such as working conditions or even social security contributions. That's why strengthening the control mechanisms, strengthening the inspection mechanisms, means strengthening the protection of our workers. On this line, I would like to point out that from this board we are going to continue to strengthen the inspectoral activity, and this year, 2015 will be 37,500 of the planned service orders, if it is true that the Inspectorate also adheres to other unqualified service orders, but rather to demand or complaint. In this area, we also have the Plan against Undeclared Work in Galicia, which we have designed in addition to the National Plan against Irregular Employment, in collaboration with the Ministry of Employment. And so this year, we're going to develop the content of this agreement through the creation of a working group specialized in the fight against undeclared work. On the other hand, one of the areas where these service and inspection orders are structured is precisely employment and labour relations. In this area, we have also set up a plan to monitor the proper use of training contracts and non-working practices in companies, which is generally the pursuit of fraud in recruitment. And to meet this goal we have set for this year more than a thousand service orders only in this type of inspection -- that is 4,6 % more than last year. We will continue to fulfil this obligation, fulfilling our responsibility for monitoring and acting through the Labour Inspectorate, dependent on the Ministry of Labour; and, of course, demanding compliance with the regulations. Another mechanism that we have applied since the Labour and Welfare Council for the resolution of labour conflicts is through the Galego Labour Relations Council, which we offer a neutral ground so that employers and workers can meet, they can reach agreements that satisfy both sides; and above all the judicial route would always be the last option to solve these situations. In fact, one of the milestones that we achieved in 2013 was the signing of an agreement, the Greek Agreement for Extrajudicial Resolution of Work Conflicts (AGA), an agreement in which it was fundamental the height of the social agents' sights, but also where the Galego Labour Relations Council played a leading role as a promoter and mediator. It's a new agreement that I have proposed the renewal and updating of a very useful instrument that has been in our community for more than 20 years. This new AGA has already benefited in our community 40,000 workers and 210 companies, with a success in mediation favourable to all of 63%. The AGA managed to prevent hundreds of conflicts from reaching the judicial route, through them and establishing bridges of understanding between the different parts. We will, of course, continue to move forward in mediation, but we have taken one more step in this Alliance of Galicia. In the case of companies with which the Administration has a service contract, yesterday it has even approved in this House – with the votes of the People's Party – the Law on Quality Assurance of Public Services and Good Administration, where there is an article for the first time, Article 49, which includes the obligations of contractors, which are, of course, providing workers with stable quality work. Thus, at the end of this article it is stated that serious non-compliance will be considered, which will justify the termination of the contract, the proven violation of the labour rights of workers and workers. I mean, yesterday we even approved one more tool, one more step, which will allow this Galician board to solve in this case the contracts for those companies that, working with the Galician board, undermine the workers' rights. It is curious, Mrs. Martínez, to see how you voted against this law yesterday, to vote against this article, which makes available another tool, such as this one, which before in this autonomous community did not exist, and which, of course, guarantees and defends the rights of workers. To finish, answering your questions, in particular: what actions are you planning to exercise the Council of Galicia, within its powers, to guarantee the right of workers and workers? Well, obviously – as I told you during my speech – the skills we have in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, through the Labour Inspectorate, so that the rights of all workers can be met. And for that we will continue to bet on the reinforcement of inspection activities, until we have planned 37,500 acts now. But, of course, the Inspectorate will also have proceedings that may arise or arise from any other complaint. And then, what actions are you planning to carry out, or are you doing, the Galician Union to force the concessionary companies of public services to take out? For the answer has and has taken it throughout this whole plenary session, and it is this new law adopted by the People's Party's votes, Quality Assurance Act, in which there is an express article which precisely guarantees the protection of workers' rights. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u284	Thank you very much, Counselor. Groups that want to intervene? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u285	Good afternoon. Mrs. Mato, we already know that there is legislation, and what we also know is that you don't do anything because that legislation in the field of work is met; to begin with, by companies with which the administration itself has contracted services, has agreements and concerts. You just said here with all your mouth full that, intolerance with the work irregularities, zero – said so, all full – and also said: we will continue to fulfill our obligation to monitor the job. I would ask you to begin – not to continue, but to begin – to fulfill your obligations to monitor what is the situation of many workers in our country. The Galego Nationalist Block has brought to this House various initiatives in the sense – the ones being questioned today, Mrs. Mato – that it had watched and stood on the side of the workers and workers, defending them in general; that the Administration –the Galician Government, the Galician Government – had to ensure compliance with that law, and specific cases where that was being violated, because in those cases the situation of the defence of workers and workers is total. And we brought to this House, Mrs. Mato, Sequor's case, in Lugo, where we reported that a company that had service contracts with its council was failing to comply with labour legislation, which did not subrogate workers. And here's the Popular Party's reply, and the answer on their part, is that these are problems between companies. We insist that a government has to ensure that labour law is met, but let's go to those companies where the administration provides public resources to these companies. The Government's response, the People's Party's response, your answer? In case I didn't. Look, the BNG brought here initiatives for the German Government to act in the case of Povervisa. Today morning there were workers and workers there, at the doors of Parliament. I guess they'd all be very busy and very busy and they didn't have a moment to talk to them. They don't have it to talk to them in their offices, they don't receive it, petitions continue that on the part of the Greek Government if you have the right to meet with them, but they're all very busy and all of you. Well, those workers and workers didn't ask for anything else, just as we called for the BNG in this Parliament. The Greek Government has a contract of more than 600 million euros to hand over to Povervisa for a service. The last of these contracts was signed in September 2014. The German Government, by the president himself, said that one of the fundamental elements for renewing this contract was the maintenance of employment. And it turns out that, not yet six months after receiving the company more than 600 million euros, he fires 13 workers and workers after an ERE attempt where he was going to fire nearly 60. A company that substantially modifies the working conditions of a very important part of its employees, a company where half of its staff has a daily reduction not on its own request, but to satisfy the employer's profits. And the situation in a company that has been repeatedly denounced, that the judges have ruled that there are irregularities and that you, Mrs. Mato, and your Government, do absolutely nothing for these working conditions to be met, despite the fact that they hand over to you millionaire contracts, despite the fact that there are clauses in that concert that say they have to meet the same working conditions as the employees of the Greek administration itself. And do you come here to say that you will continue, that it is your priority, that zero intolerance with irregularities? I should have a little shame! And, look, the BNG also brought here other cases, brought other cases; I'm going to give you another example. The company of the senior residence Valle-Inclán, in Vilanova de Arousa; a company that had a service contract with its advisor, Mrs. Mato, who gave him several million euros. A company that is more than proven to make undue use of funds, which was diverting public funds – it's saying public funds, Mrs. Mato, I think very well, look on the other side, it doesn't interest you; illegal transfer of workers dilated by the trial, Mrs. Mato, and not paying the workers, unappropriate layoffs. Your counsellor was informed of this situation and asked him for active and passively that you had met with them. Complaints in the courts, court judgements, communications to the council, disputes in the court... and what did you do?, look elsewhere!, even though they were public resources that were only serving for the profit of the employers and not for the benefit of the workers, not for the sake of a good public service. And you looked the other way! I could continue to give you examples, with which, the truth is that it scandalizes enough that you dare come here to say that "they're going to continue" or that "zero tolerance," because your tolerance with work irregularities is total and absolute. I suppose the word decent and legitimate employment is something that is quite far away from you, Counselor. And I'm not surprised either, because you in this Parliament once said that your business model was Amancio Ortega. Yes, he said in the budget debate: who would have given Galicia many Ortega Amancios! I suppose, as your model is Amancio Ortega, that's why you're concerned that the benefits go to employers and not to take care that workers and workers have decent working conditions. That Ortega Amancio which enslaves workers and workers in the so-called Third World, or which has hired workers in the textile sector in lamentable conditions. I suppose your model is also the Silveira, Mrs. Mato, who receive public money in exchange for unsustainable working conditions for their workers. Or even your model is also Raúl López, because it turns out that you these days ago, regarding the situation of this company, asked what happened in this company. A company where there was judicial intervention, where the businessman is in prison, a company where black money is spoken of... they call it "collecting shirts." Maybe collecting T-shirts – if the president allows me – is either black money or not. But they collected t-shirts worth 1.7 million euros, zules where there was money in black. I was wondering if you were worried about this company and you said no, that the situation was the same as before, it was a simple judicial problem. What information do you have, with regard to this company, that you don't have the rest of the citizens of this country, Mrs Mato, to look so quietly, saying that it wasn't a cause for concern? Is it not a matter of concern to you that an entrepreneur has these behaviors, these actions, and that may be at risk for all the work volumes of all these companies? No, it turns out to you that it's not a matter of concern. And in the face of regrettable situations like this, like that of Povervisa, like that of Valle-Inclán, like that of Sequor, like many others, what does the Council do? It's not that I force them to meet the conditions that are in the contracts, it's not that they ensure that public funds are not used for the enrichment of entrepreneurs, but for what they have to go for. But what you and your advisors do is to protect, cover up and be complicit in the actions of the entrepreneurs, instead of doing what they should do as the Government of Galicia, which is to look after the interests of the workers in this country, in the first term. With which, the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u286	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u287	...Mr. Mato, it's if you've ever decided to act as the German Government, as the Government of most Greeks and Greeks, and to look after the interests of most of these Greeks and Greeks. And the Galician working class is a very important part of this country so that the Government of this country would have the details of looking at their interests. Of course, in your reply, you'll again do a piece of legislation that will then take care that you don't meet or look elsewhere when businessmen abuse her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u289	Good afternoon, Counselor. I'm going to start now that you're done using the phone, because I think you, as an advisor, have to take care of what you're going to be told in this interrogation. It is certainly frustrating to be part of a Parliament in which a Government appears, and a part of this Government, which has to be responsible for employment, says here that a praise of the employment situation in this country as if the employment situation in this country was truly splendid, and it is quite the opposite. Look, I'm going to come in on some of the data you put on the table to show you that, unfortunately, you're very far from reality, but what surprises me is not only that I'm away from reality, but that once again, every time I come in, it shows your total ignorance of labour regulations. The first question I'm going to ask you on the table is that you see here, thanks to the inspectoral work on compliance with the conventions and labor concerts, if you are improving the employment situation in Galicia. Look, there's a data that disassembles it. In the last quarter of 2014, wages fell in Galicia by 0.5%. In contrast, the value of the worked hour has fallen by 2.8%. Do you know why you give that to me? Because in this country it's more and more hours that work and are not charged. The increase in hours worked without charge in this country is shown in that data during 2014. Therefore, there is no such inspection work as to control compliance with collective agreements. You always look the other way. Moreover, to suggest that the work of the Labour Inspectorate for the collection of wages is effective is a barbarity in legal terms. You know that to a grave breach of employment, in order not to pay wages, the only thing that belongs to you is a fine that in many cases, in almost all cases, is less than the wages that this businessman would have to pay. But it's just that he doesn't have any right to pay for the worker. I mean, a worker who doesn't charge his salary, but he's going to work, therefore, he's paying for going to work because he has costs, and he gets, after a lot of fighting, a work inspection act sanctioning a company for default, what he has to do next is go to trial. And when he gets to the trial, he spends nine months until he gets a resolution, and the only possibility is that if he's not paid, he'll accept the resolution of his contract. So you're out of your salary and out of your job. And we'll see when he collects his salary from the Fire! Therefore, you demonstrate an absolute ignorance of labour regulations and the real situation of workers and workers. And you, who in addition always looks to the other side and gets profiled in the face of labor conflicts, should explain what your performances were in companies that have been unpaid for months. Let's not talk about Povervisa, about what the comrades talked about before, about Cleannet, about the cleaning workers of this country's services, about primary care centers; let's talk about, for example, how you got side by side when you were talking about Silgar Travels, about how you didn't do anything either by the Cuca workers, or about how you didn't do anything either by the heroic Lantern workers, who were six months at your company's door to claim that they weren't fired. You guys didn't do anything. Plant, still above, that the AGA's work was really spectacular. You know that's not the case. Despite the fact that I have to recognize the AGA's manager for his ability to negotiate in these conflict systems, you know that AGA has to be accepted by both parties, and that you have done nothing legally to force entrepreneurs to host mediation elements like this, which can in many cases solve the situation. Despite all this, we continue with the data you sell here as great, which is a great farce and demonstrate how you are outside the reality of this country. You tell me last year, the unemployed in this country came down 19,000 jobs. Do you know how many fled from this country last year? 14,000. 14,000 are out now. So it's not unemployment, it's people who left this country to find a job because here you were unable to give it. Do you know how many citizens in this country earn less than 412 euros a month? Do you know how many citizens in Galicia earn less than 412 euros a month? More than 79,000 citizens are going to work every day and they don't just charge 412 a month; that's the reality of this country. So you, when you put the figures here, you should make it clear that the numbers are dramatic. I wonder how you would feel, when you make that titaniumic effort as head of the Labour Council, if at the end of the month your reward was 412 euros. Surely 412 euros is much less than the gifts the Zeta plot gave you. That's the reality of this country's situation. So I'd like us to have a responsible advisor, and not an irresponsible advisor who, in addition, agrees here with gestures that nothing happens when reality is what it is. And I ask him, what are you going to do to increase the wage capacity of our workers this year? What are you going to do, for example, with the workers of Foelca, in Boiro, who have been unpaid for nine months, nine months without charge!, having to go to work every day at their jobs? Do you know what it means to have an obligation to go to your job every day and you don't pay for nine months? So, what's the attitude you're going to take, what are you going to do? Because the Council has to know that this complaint is filed in the trial, that the workers have reported this, but we still await the work of the Galician board inspectorate. Do you also know that you are promoting part-time work, and this part-time work is what you are throwing down the wages of this country? Do you know that the three-quarters of the lowest wages in this country are women? Do you also know that young workers are the ones who suffer from these wages of misery? Do you also know that precarious jobs, and those temporary jobs, are the ones that have the worst wage conditions? So all you've encouraged is what's causing these working conditions. You encouraged part-time employment, poor and therefore precarious employment, and that employment also means that one third of the workers in this country cover less than the minimum wage. That's the reality! What are they going to do? We put something absolutely fundamental on the table. To recover this country we have to recover wages, because only the domestic demand of families can recover part of our economy. And in order to recover wages, the first thing they have to do is to increase the minimum wage and derogate a job reform that meant eliminating the ability to negotiate workers and putting workers at the foot of the horses of unscrupulous entrepreneurs. I always break a spear in favor of many entrepreneurs in this country, because there are decent entrepreneurs and there are employers who pay, but they are attacked by those who violate the regulations and are able to put their workers in semi-slavery conditions and therefore unfair competition with those decent entrepreneurs who respect their rights. Can you explain to me how you and Mr. Feijó go to a company that violates labour regulations to present a training program? How can it be understood that Mr Feijóo presents a training program in a company that does 12-hour work days? And what didn't you realize about the face of suffering that these workers have or did they hide the workers who work 12 hours in that company? How can you, in the name of a government, make an ad of this magnitude to a company that violates something as fundamental as the ability of a worker to have time to live, and not just to work as a slave in a company? Well, you and Mr. Feijóo went to that company to present a job proposal. Of course, you don't know what it's like to work 12 hours a day, not a leg!, unfortunately for this country. So I ask you to be serious, and I ask you, once and for all, to leave the big figures and self-compromising in the face of a terrible situation, a situation that already means, I insist, that there are 79,000 people in this country who charge, despite working every day, less than 412 euros a month. So the big numbers are the ones. I ask you to act. But, above all, I ask you one last question. I suppose you're very worried and you have to be waiting for what's going to happen to this Zeta Operation judicial process, but if you have some time, I'd like you to explain to me what you're going to do with those tens of thousands of workers who in Galicia are getting up every day, going to work and don't charge, as it is happening, for example, in that company we all know, from Boiro, or how it's going on, for example, in the La Capital editorial, where they haven't paid a portion of their salary for months. You should say what you're going to do with that, or are you just going to look the other way and have self-comprehensibility with figures that are, certainly, dramatic? Nothing else. I certainly hope, with great anxiety your answers, to see if, once and for all, you are able to put upon the table a solution to this situation of our workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u290	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u291	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, the first thing the Labour Council has to do -- in response to the words you were commenting on -- is respect for its own labour agreements, because the staff of the Labour Council, the board of the welfare area itself, the fifth agreement since the board does not respect. There are more than three court judgements concerning the counsellor's cartel; that is, the workers' shifts. So when the council itself doesn't respect a labor agreement, I don't know that we're going to ask the Greek Government to do what it has to do to get companies to comply with legislation. In any case, it is not easy to determine the number of persons under the modality of administrative concessions under the scope of the Galician Union. And it's not easy, more than nothing, because the Galician Union, being absolutely consistent in its work in these legislations, doesn't answer the opposition groups what they ask you, never responds. We know that the public staff of broad basic services of the Galician Union has been reduced since the People's Party - especially in education and health -, Counsellor, 3,000 people less. Resettlement rates have been limited in recent years, more than 50% for this year. So, in the recently approved public job offer, curiously a little before an election, a public offer that is announced a lot, you spend more on ads than what you spend on supporting the unemployed. You're a government of advertising and propaganda. Every time they do something, they spend more on advertising than what really benefits citizens. On the contrary, there are broad services that are being privatized since the People's Party governs, especially in the area of public and social services. It is sufficient to see the numerous tenders carried out by the Labour Council especially for the management of social services. A good example was what the BNG spokesperson said about Vigo's hospital. But, indeed, Counsellor, it is regrettable – at such difficult times for people – that it is even insulting to undo with your propaganda of an already completed crisis, of the best offer of public employment in history, of the greatest respect for legislation, when I have just told you that you yourself, that is, the Administration, violates the labor agreements. From there on, I think everything you can say is almost left over. The reality of this country is 101,100 people more unemployed than when the PP has reached power, with an increase in unemployment of 62%; wages that are around 12% below the state average, one of the lowest of all autonomous communities; and, if we talk about the working day, Counselor, I understand that you don't want to listen to me, then you can always read it... I mean, I think you often come here asking for a respect that you don't have for the representatives we're here, speaking or sitting. You don't, Madam President, and I'm sorry. You don't have it. I mean, yesterday there's a news: "18 years of illegal funding from the People's Party," and they don't change. They come here to teach almost everything! And when there's a reality of unemployment in Galicia that's terrible, the Counselor's looking to heaven. Man, in heaven he's looking at a lot of people because he has nowhere to look! Yeah, it bothers me, what do you want me to say? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So let's focus on the spirit of interpellation, which makes a business report, and we could do a lot more in all trade unions, the IGC, Commissions, UXT, etc., among all trade unions we have a very broad narrative. But the reality is that, that you don't respect the workers, you don't respect the legislation and you don't respect the Greeks and the Greeks who are suffering right now. There's an increase in part-time contracts, that's a reality, and it's a question that the contractors themselves often attach to with the Galician Union. By offering a data, contracts of less than 7 days grow year by year. In 2014 they increased by 75% in relation to the year 2012. I mean, you don't have to go too far back. You're outnumbering yourselves. More than half of the workers and part-time Greek workers don't even charge the minimum wage. 55% earns less than 638 euros a month. In addition, in the relationship in which jobs are called equivalent jobs, that is, where we take into account both the number of people who work and the duration of such work, according to the data of the national accounting itself, Galicia has fallen in the number of workers enormously. Despite this, the People's Party is defending without a blush that Galicia is overcoming the crisis. Counsellor, your advisor, you, the Government of the People's Party, in parallel with the one on unemployment, you lower your budgets in the Employment Council, but at the same time you don't even run the budgets. As the spokesperson for AGE very well said, I understand that you are very busy in Operation Zeta, because look, if the inspections of the Work Council did what they had to do, if those responsible for the Work Council – and you, unfortunately, Counsellor – were not messing with, possibly many situations would be much clearer. You refer today in your intervention to a law that has been passed in this House. In this rule, Counsellor, I don't know if you've read it, the services provided indirectly and contracted to private companies will be included. There is a specific paragraph on the contractor's obligations, which are limited, Counsellor, basically to pick up an aspect which is already regulated in general legislation. There will of course be many things, Counselor, which must be legislated, but the fundamental thing is to comply with the law, which is not complied with, Counselor, neither in his counseling nor in any other. But there is no specific paragraph in this law on the issue that is being dealt with, such as obligations or labour rights. The Government of the People's Party, of course, could include some specific aspect in this sense, and not general obligations under a law that already exists. But look, Counselor, we're used to it: only screen. You wanted to remove all legitimacy from this Parliament, come here, release a speech that you have already placed before, before paying for advertising and propaganda, and in that we are. In the recruitment processes, basic nailings is necessary, Counsellor, including and providing more relevant weight to the so-called social clauses. My group has made some recommendations in this regard, but of course, with the vote against the People's Party forever. Other autonomous communities, Counsellor, have a guide to the inclusion of social contractual clauses. In Galicia, the German Government doesn't even have them. We want to pretend in one of the aspects that should be fundamental, and that's control. And you need to know a little bit about this, Counselor. You must be sorry to have no more control...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u292	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u293	...or had to have had excessive control. For example, issues such as guarantees that all these companies are complying with the agreements. But, I repeat, when the Council doesn't meet the agreements, I don't know that companies can be asked. You were speaking here, Counselor, that workers, when there is an irregularity, have the right to denounce. Man, thank you! That's how we got there. They haven't repealed that law yet, or changed it or didn't change it, to make it cordial. Because perhaps they make it cordial and directly workers can no longer complain that they exploit them or some kind of work irregularity. But I suppose you don't get away with living in a complicated moment, because we're talking about people who hire you for an hour, people who work longer hours for what you're hired, and sign what they're putting before you. And it's very good that the person you have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u295	...that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u296	No, no, his time is up. [[Mrs. Quintas Álvarez speaks words which are not perceived.]] Mrs. Quintas, ladies and gentlemen, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. People's Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Quintas, you speak of respecting the workers' labour rights. But what did you do about the labor rights of the workers when the Socialist Party ruled? What did they do about the labor rights of 3 million Spaniards that you put in jail? The labor rights of these people you have trampled them for four years by Government Zapatero, the last four. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, lessons of the Socialist Party in that sense, zero. [[Applause]] We didn't see Parliament... we didn't see Parliament, Mrs. Quintas, giving lessons. We've come to learn, learn from the errors of the Socialist Party not to commit them again. That's why this government is here, not to make the same mistakes and learn from the mistakes you've made. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the reality, Mr. Fajardo, that reality that you say the Government of Galicia does not know, the reality of this country is that, when it ruled the left, unemployment rose, and now that it rules the People's Party, unemployment is low. That's an indisputable reality that's collected from all the recorded data on EPA unemployment. Now that the People's Party rules, unemployment drops. [[Murmurs.]] You were talking about Operation Zeta. Mrs. Quintas, how do you know about Operation Zeta in the Socialist Party, in your group, in the Socialist Party? That's why Mr. Gerardo Crespo's e-mails appear to Mr. Ricardo Varela. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mrs. Quintas. Because the current Union, this government, is the complainant, not the denounced, as much as you come here torturingly say things that are not. Here are some gifts from certain companies. Let's see, gifts from certain companies. But if the Pokémon Operation summary includes members of this party who talks here about gifts that received bottles from Vendex: 8 bottles of wine, 2 of Dom Pérignon and 3 of Vega Sicilia! You must have the courage to come here to talk about gifts and conferences with companies from Alternative Galga de Left. Mrs. Prado, in connection with the Galego Nationalist Block and its intervention, it is true, they come to teach us lessons and I suppose we must also learn from the experience of the Galician Nationalist Block, from the Government's experience: 200 contracts in law fraud in the Galician Equality and Welfare Consortium when you rule. That's an example of working relationships and workers' rights! And you were a member of that government, so we didn't accept those lessons. The People's Parliamentary Group is perfectly aware of the concern of the Labour and Welfare Adviser, and of all his team, for the labour conflicts in Galicia. We're not going around taking pictures of ourselves, showing a false interest. No, no. We, from the administrations, and within the competence framework that assists you to the Council of Galicia, are trying to resolve conflicts. That's what the Labour and Welfare Council does. I don't know what they did when that council was governed by the Socialist Party. And, therefore, of course, yes!, zero tolerance with irregularities!, that's what the Government of the People's Party refers to. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is the Greek economy and employment better than a year ago? Of course, it is an indisputable reality, as indisputable, that this crisis is of the Socialist Party. And unemployment falls today in Galicia and Spain; today there are 22,000 unemployed less than a year ago in Galicia, as much as bothering Mrs. Quintas. Unemployment has dropped in Galicia in the last year by 8%, that's the reality you don't talk about. You think it's going to get worse because the PSOE is going to get worse. It's not true, Spain and Galicia are better, as much as it bothers you. Ten consecutive months in which unemployment, the inter-annual differential, decreases consecutively every month. Affiliation to Social Security rises, as long as Mrs. Quintas is told by telephone that she is not. Of course, the number of social security affiliates goes up! Unemployment in Spain is low and memberships of Social Security rise. There are 300,000 unemployed less than a year ago, 400,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago. And there are indicators that bothered the opposition, cited by the Labour and Welfare Advisor, that indicate that there is an economic recovery and that the thing is improving. The number of companies affected by creditor competitions has dropped by 28% in the last year. With the PSOE going up, that's the reality. Number of companies in dissolution. With PSOE it went up; in the last year it dropped 21%. [[Murmurs.]] Number of workers affected by ERE. It dropped by 40% in the last year, so, Mrs. Quintas, that's why they actually lost the elections in Spain. And they're talking about the administration's performance in defence of labour rights. The counselor has already explained it, therefore, I have nothing but to inciting in that sense. Labour Inspectorate. Permanent collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate by the Galician Labour Authority. And the figures speak for themselves. In 2014, 582 actions in specific cases of default or late payment of wages, however disturbing the opposition. That's the reality. As for the year, 116 work inspectorate actions in the area of wage compensation. That's what the Galician Union, the Galician Labour Authority, is doing in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate. And I have to say that most of the companies in our country, Galicia, most of the companies in Galicia, comply with the prevailing labour legislation. As much as it bothers you, and as much as you try to criminalize our country's entrepreneurs, that's not a reality, that's not reality. That there are entrepreneurs who do not comply with the current regulations? Well, you have to go after them from the administration and from the judicial field, but you can't criminalize employers who generate jobs. Of course, the Socialist Party does not generate jobs, the Galician Nationalist Block, nor does AGE. They only create their own. It's the entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the ones you come here to criminalize every day, the ones who create jobs, as much as you criticize in that sense. And of course, she was speaking to the advisor with all the reason of the Law on ensuring the quality of public services and good administration. A law that we passed yesterday in this House, in this same plenary session, with the votes of the People's Party alone. And today the advisor has just made it clear, indeed, the cynicism of an opposition that denounces one thing and then votes exactly the opposite. Yesterday we passed this law, a law that contemplates in your articulated Mrs. Quintas, I believe that those who have not read it, although you voted against it, it was precisely you, article 49 – try to read it now, before you finish the plenary, even though yesterday you voted against it, "...set up mechanisms for the administration to be able to act against concessionary companies of public services that violate their obligations and violate the rights of workers and workers." I mean, yesterday a law was even passed that allows the Board to settle the contract with those companies that violate workers' rights, a law that you voted against. How much hypocrisy, how much cynicism and how much double speech! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, you know that in this opposition you can't expect anything at all. They come here with the written speech: "The fault of everything is with Joina." And when unemployment breaks down, nothing has to do with the Galician Union, that's thanks to the efforts of opposition groups. He knows that to support the work of the Government there is only one group here willing to bring Galicia out of the crisis, which is the People's Parliamentary Group. In the meantime, from the opposition, Madam Counselor, you expect absolutely nothing: cynicism, hypocrisy... they're only waiting for Galicia to go wrong so they can get along. So, completely unproductive work for the country. [[Murmurs.]] Today a member of the People's Parliamentary Group said so: some have to hide their words because people no longer stand with so much hypocrisy and so much demagogy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u298	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica roll. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u299	Counselor, how well the crisis has come to you! Everything is justified by the crisis! That's good to justify anything. All their completely ideological policies, which have nothing to do with the economic situation, justify them through the crisis. Here, too, says it's a problem of a very widespread crisis in time. And I say, a crisis that pays exclusively the workers and the workers, and you allow it. He says he's creating a job. If you don't pay the salary, I also believe in work. If Junta allows me not to pay wages, I obviously have no problem in hiring. Having free staff is wonderful, and precarious, with part-time contracts working full days, with totally illegal practices. They say there's less ERE and greater membership of Social Security. You'll have to see enough of this that there's almost no company left to do ERE. Companies are at the lowest level of staff, they can no longer have fewer staff, so the EREs are over. It's not a victory for the Galician Union, nor for the labor policies that you're taking forward. It's zero tolerance with business irregularities. I quoted 18 companies in which the Board did not act, and opposition groups cited a few more. Don't act, it's all hypocrisy, that's hypocrisy, Mr. Tellado! For example, we're talking about Povervisa. I brought it to this plenary session and the Commission more than once, and they answered that it is a problem between companies and workers, so the Union does not act, when Povisa does not comply with the collective agreement, violates the concert signed with Sergas, violates Law 3/2011, of public sector recruitment, and fails because it also uses the student as a free labourer. And I brought papers to the councillor showing medical failures by students who were replacing hospital staff, and they didn't act either. And they don't act either in relation to the work overload that's being denounced with the destruction of jobs; they don't act either. The first to violate labour law is Sergas himself, through his recruitment list, where he hires without rest, without vacations and without rights to public health workers. And besides, payroll is also exercised by Sergas, who still owes the extra wages to his workers and workers, just like the rest of the employees in the administration. You tell me about the Labour Inspectorate. I didn't want to talk to you about the inspection, I was talking about the board, the inspection doesn't depend on you. But the Labour Inspectorate has to equip her with means, because at least the Vigo Labour Inspectorate has no means to work. I also agree with you that the eagerness of the collector is of no use at all. For one thing, as Mr. Fajardo said, because fines are much cheaper than what the company saves. But also because they have impediments to follow up and fine, to follow big companies like Citroën, Povervisa or El Corte Inglés. Judiciary. Tell you it's the last one. Well, if the judges are collapsed, it's because you're doing very bad work, because the last route is the only way the workers have in the end, that's why the Greek judges are collapsed. You're talking about mediation, the AGA and the Galego Labour Relations Council, and I ask you, what do you have to do with someone who violates the law and doesn't pay the wages? What to mediate? They will be forced to do so, there is nothing to mediate! What happens or what happens when the worker does not comply with labour regulations? He immediately has a dismissal. As for the concessionaires, you speak of the law that we passed yesterday and that I voted against and would vote against again. First, because an article doesn't justify the whole law. And second, because stealing is already illegal, we don't need a law that says businessmen can't steal workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u300	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u301	It's illegal. What are they selling us here? What are they selling? The law is pure propaganda, and the law deliberately ignores the unions. Ignore them, exclude them from all kinds of negotiation. Besides, it's all a hypocrisy, you know why? Because they brought more than once a non-legislation proposal requesting that companies that do not work should be penalized, and you voted against, they do not want to penalise companies that do not commit work law; they do not want to penalise concessionary companies, or opt for a concession, when they do not pay wages or when they make irregular and unnecessarily dismissals. So everything you said is nothing. They didn't even submit an amendment, because that LNP was able to submit an amendment and show that they really want to fight against the work overexploitation that is being done in our country and the payroll.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. You have the floor to close the debate, Mrs. Beatriz Mato's work and well-being advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u303	Good afternoon again, gentlemen. I will try, following the Rules of Procedure of this House, to respond – after listening to the positioning of the rest of the groups on this interpellation – to the interpelent as you did in the two interventions. And the first of all is that the interpelent comes to say in this second intervention that this crisis comes to the Government of the People's Party, because everything justifies the crisis! Man, you say so when this morning you were able even to justify suicides by the crisis, and even to qualify this Government as Government (...) [By order of the President, and in the course of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions]! The truth is that it strongly draws attention that you point to precisely an excuse, as it can be to shield us in a crisis, to raise resolutions, which is what we are taking forward from the Government. And speaking also of your interpellation, as it comes here in writing, in which it said: "on the basis of the denunciation of the Galician Interunion Confederation, thousands of employees...", everything you read in your intervention at the beginning of all, could also be consistent and pay attention to the IGC, even when you are able to present in the councils, through the Galician Nationalist Block, a motion by the IGC to include social clauses in public sector works contracts, where you expressly say – the IGC, the Block – "in relation to the need to ensure the fulfilment of labour obligations, the draft law on the guarantee of good administration and quality of the services of the Galician Union also considers serious breach, which will justify the resolution of the contract and proven violation of workers' labour rights." I mean, the IGC itself is able to speak well, at least, of Article 49 of the law that was passed yesterday in this single House and exclusively with the votes of the People's Party. That for me is a demonstration – we will leave it this way – of some cynicism, at least on your part, and in this case of the formation of the Joint Group that represents. And you can say what you want, Your Honor, but what I am clear is that I say it again: zero tolerance, yes sir. Against irregularities this government has zero tolerance. And I respect 100 percent of the current legislation, including the conventions. Today, this House, even this Government, and of course the workers and the workers of Wales, have a more at their disposal tool that guarantees greater protection than there was yesterday precisely for the struggle in the defence of workers' rights, and this is unique and exclusively because this Government brought a law to this Parliament, and this Government, through precisely the People's Parliamentary Group only, will be able to carry forward this law, which – as I said and repeat again – has a clear article that before there was not even collected in any state law, article precisely that it collects the IGC, curiously, and that the BNG is now presenting to the councils, where precisely it gives the Administration tools to terminate contracts in the event of wage breaches. And, of course, Your Honor, he said what he does to Junta. The inspection is the responsibility of the State, through the Labour Inspectorate, and we collaborate with the State through our teams, but the inspectors are dependent on the Ministry of Labour, with which we work in close collaboration. In fact, he had said before that in 2014 there were 582 performances that have been carried out, since the Labour Inspectorate, directly linked to the payment of wages, of which 78 records emerged, because I understand that the rest, of course, reacted to the request, to the visit and even to the record raised by the Labour Inspectorate. And as far as we've been here for years, related to the subject that you're supposed to be concerned about, there were 116 performances in companies that we've been developing in this area, which resulted in 14 acts of infringement. And he reminded me that the fight against fraud, that is, zero tolerance against irregularities, is developing this council, through an agreement signed with the Ministry of Labour, which launched the Plan against Undeclared Work in Galicia, and that obviously will continue this year with the creation of a working group specialized in the fight against undeclared work. To avoid situations, precisely, such as those that you denounced, of unpaid wages, the best thing is obviously that everyone denounces it. For that they must know all citizens and all workers who, in fact, have all the tools at their disposal with the Vigilant Legislation, and now one more is offered so that they can warn and warn the Labour Inspectorate of the irregular facts that can be done from the administrations. And as I said, we have 37,500 performances for this year 2015. Nothing else. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u304	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the criteria and investment priorities formulated by the Government of Greece before the Central Government in relation to the European aid corresponding to the Juncker Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u305	Mr. Losada has the floor to make up his plea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. You compared yourself to this same plenary yesterday to talk about the master lines of your advice. I later, in a later intervention, in which you were not present, spoke of the metaphysical inability to pronounce a few words from the new advisor to Fairy. Here we have come to talk about the Juncker Plan, indeed, but we have come to talk about, above all, growth and employment, which is the other side of the currency of poverty and inequality. The lack of growth, lack of employment, long-term unemployment, are the fundamental façades of what I believe is a process that – except for Mr Feijó when he speaks in this plenary – everyone agrees that it is a process of general impoverishment and social polarization in Galicia and in the whole of Spain. There is a paradigmatic example of the disconnection of rulers from governments. The phrase is probably apocryphal, but I think it's sufficiently illustrative. When the French Revolution asked Maria Antonieta what was going on, they said, "It's that people don't have bread." And he said, "Well, they eat pastries." I mean, it's the paradigmatic example of what you're talking about and doing when you come to talk about economy to this Parliament. Yesterday you were unable to pronounce the word poverty and inequality, incapable! He didn't say it in the half hour he intervened in this tarima. And poverty and inequality are in Galicia, and they're in Spain, and unfortunately, they're about to stay, because there's no indication that these spinal growth rates of GDP are going to allow income and income levels to allow the population to get out of poverty. In this context – a context which I want to make clear because we often forget here – this country, which has a 25% unemployment rate at the level of Spain, and at the level of Galicia of 22%, which except Greece is the highest in the European Union with a lot of difference, since it doubles the average of the European Union, should be the country most interested in growth-stimulating and demand-stimulating policies. Indeed, Mr Juncker, under pressure from the European left, late, ill and traces, it is true that he has put forward a plan, called a plan to encourage the European economy. A plan that was initially very ambitious, was talking about €300 billion, which, under pressure from the European right, was gradually denaturalizing, unfortunately, because it is obvious that in strict ideological terms you do not believe in public intervention and therefore believe that everything that is public investment is doomed to failure and low productivity in terms of growth. The truth is that this plan – I repeat again – became a public-private plan, in which the injection of public funds was much smaller than at the beginning. But yet he was on top of the table with defined strategic lines. Transport infrastructure: the public investment of the Galician Union is literally on the ground. R+D+i: when it turns out that you have to leave the advisor and the director of the Innovation Agency to sell that you hire an investigator. I suppose you know what I mean because I suppose everyone reads the press. I think one of the most ridiculous pages in recent political history, I don't speak of Galicia anymore, but of all Spain; not because you hire that investigator, but because that's news. May that be to make a press release from a councillor, at last, I think it demonstrates how we are. Broadband, energy and reindustrialization. These are the fundamental objectives of Mr. Juncker's stimulus plan. It was mainly about structural funds and mainly about EIB resources, the European Investment Bank. Of €300 billion, Counsellor, with a simple three-year rule, Galicia would correspond, in terms of population, to approximately €1.5 billion in two years: year 15 and year 16. You announced yesterday that a new Economic Planning Plan 2015-2020 was being developed. I think it seems to me a good idea, the truth is that we welcome the economic planning of the liberal governments on the Spanish right, but I would like the results of the previous one to be evaluated. I think it's up to you. Mrs. Fernández Currás, also with an enviable media power in Mr. Feijóo's first legislation, told us for months the kindness of the Strategic Plan Galicia 2010-2014. Horizon 2020. I suppose your 2015-2020 Plan will be inserted into Mrs Currás' macroplan. The fact is that you are certain, Mr. Counsellor, that you are fully aware that the macroeconomic targets, social, technological and innovation goals, which appear on that plan, have not been conquered or far away. They can't tell us they didn't know the economic situation. We've been being reproached for years by the citizens of this country, by denying the crisis, by you who knew what was going on and by those who knew how to solve it. It was those of the forty-five days to end the unemployment of this autonomous community, I'm sure they remember. So I'd like to know what is the evaluation of this strategic plan, which was a very rare failure, in terms of any of the indicators that are used. And, well, of course, I would be very interested to know how the next one will develop, depending on its failure, which has a 2020 horizon. And in the case of the Juncker Plan, well, indeed, there was a systematic right-wing blockade, mainly in Germany. The reasonable thing was for the funds to come from the European Stability Mechanism, which is called colloquially the money-creating machine. There doesn't seem to be any problem with increasing monetary mass. We're in a situation of deflation or practically very low inflation. So we're talking exclusively about ideology, we're not talking at all about a complicated economic situation in increasing the monetary mass in circulation. And in fact, it would have to be seen why in a deflation situation the euro is constantly losing positions. And it loses positions precisely because the governments on the right Europeans don't want to talk about growth and want to talk about other things, which lead us to where they lead us: they lead us to poverty and inequality, they bring us sadly to that Maria Antonieta who thought that if people couldn't eat bread, they could eat brioche – unfortunately they couldn't eat brioche and then they cut her head off: the things of the Revolution – And it wasn't the European stability mechanism. The second route was the European Investment Bank, which also did not apply to the Germans; by the way, neither to the Germans nor to the governments of Mr Feijóo, who, except to seek funding for the private companies that are building the Vigo hospital, never moved to seek funding from the European Investment Bank. I am very sorry that in six years those who said that the Government Tourin was going to Brussels little to seek funding for six years is neither expected nor expected. First they were not, after all, already in Mr Dorribo's case, of course the European Investment Bank, as it preferred to hibernate investment projects from the Galician Union. The third way, the budget of the European Union, as you know, is very scarce indeed. It's the fourth, a private capital. And here it is, here it seems that everyone has agreed a little bit more. With which, in the end, that $300 billion Juncker plan ends up being 21 billion public euros which will mobilise approximately €300 billion. It is certainly not the European Left's plan, and so said the Social Democratic Group in the European Parliament. I also say that I prefer that to nothing, the socialists prefer that to nothing. But, of course, first, we'd like the right to explain to us why this series of vetoes I talked about up to this moment. And then I'd like you to explain to us, from that ideological dispensation that characterizes them, which was the reason to systematically underestimate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u307	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u308	...–end, Madam President – the initiatives of this parliamentary group that had to do with this issue. We presented the first five months ago, October 21, 2014. At that moment he voted against and said he was hasty. She wasn't at all hasty. The proof that it wasn't precipitated is that we presented another one in December and another one in March 2015. The proof that it was not hasty is that at this moment, for example, Germany, Italy and France, 8,000 million euros above the table each; Mr. Rajoy, in theory 1,500. He also said, in an intellectual finery that characterizes it, that some other country has put less; of course, Finland, the Netherlands and Austria, that have 4% unemployment. They have much less interest in the Juncker Plan than a gentleman who takes a 24% unemployment rate behind them. And, unfortunately, the Greek Government – I insist – until now is neither expected nor expected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u310	Interpellation has to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u311	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u312	Will you be there? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u313	Mr. Valeriano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u314	Thank you, Madam President. The European economy stimulus plan announced by the Commission's new President, Jean-Claude Juncker, in presenting his candidacy, is a new investment plan for Europe, commonly called Plan Juncker. Its regulatory regulations and the realization of the current Letto presidency of the European Union are foreseen. It will be the national States that must come up with the proposals in order to achieve the end that is being pursued. The plan is born to respond to the major investment needs in Europe following the fall of the investment level around 15% since its peak level in 2007, resulting from the economic crisis, while high levels of savings are detected and numerous viable projects needing funding. In particular, the plan proposes three chapters: firstly, improving the investment environment, i.e. improving regulation, making it simpler and predictable at all levels; secondly, mobilizing funding for investment; and thirdly, bringing funding to the real economy. According to estimates published by the European Commission, the total of these measures could inject between EUR 330,000 and EUR 410,000 into European Union GDP over the next three years and create 1.3 million new jobs. Within the first chapter of the improvement of legislation, structural reforms, coordination of the single European market, energy, the single capital market are put in place. The investment plan will include an economic path to eliminate specific sector-specific regulations that make investments difficult. Secondly, for the mobilisation of investment funding a new European Fund for Strategic Investments will be set up, guaranteed with public resources and for additional investments in the period 2015-2017, maximizing its impact and unlocking the closure of private investment. The aim of the European Strategic Investment Fund is to mobilise additional investments of a minimum value of EUR 315,000 million up to the end of 2017. This fund, where the European Commission and the European Investment Bank are working to create them in mid-2015, will initially constitute 21 billion euros: 16,000 from the current multiannual financial framework and 5,000 from the European Investment Bank. In order to ensure that projects are selected on the basis of their merits, the plan provides that there should be no previously determined allocations that meet territorial or thematic criteria. Member States, directly or through their national promotion banks or similar bodies, may also contribute to the Fund by bringing capital or increasing national co-financing beyond the minimum legal requirement, without bringing it up for public deficit purposes under the Stability Pact. Thirdly, the plan is to be able to bring funding to the real economy, i.e. to put in place specific initiatives to ensure that additional funding for investment meets the needs of the real economy, so that additional public and private funds are channelled to viable projects with real added value for the social market economy. To this end, a working group was established between the Commission and the European Investment Bank, which, together with the Member States, identified a first list of possible investment projects in order to make a transparent European reserve of projects. This list of projects is not closed and is based on a series of simple and recognised economic criteria: that have added value or interest to the European Union, that are viable and that can be started in the period 2015-2017. At European level, on 9 December, a report was submitted with a preliminary list of 2,000 projects submitted by all the States of the Union, open and non-exhaustive, capable of mobilizing EUR 1.3 billion, with no commitment to automatic financing or preference for receiving national or European resources. As regards Spain, and as published by the European Commission, the value of the projects initially selected was quantified at EUR 53,000 million: more than EUR 25,000 million related to energy, EUR 11 billion in R & D projects, more than EUR 6 billion to complete transport networks and infrastructures – fundamentally in the Mediterranean and Atlantic corridors – and finally more than EUR 10 billion for other investments, social and environmental infrastructures. As far as Galicia is concerned, on November 7, the Council of Business received a letter requesting information from the Ministry of Business on the list of investment projects that our community considered to be likely to provide within the investment needs in key sectors of the Union. Potentially selectable projects had to meet some initial requirements: a minimum of EUR 1 million, be economically viable, start their execution before 2018 and meet financial or regulatory barriers that made it difficult for them to perform. The goal was not only to include public projects, but to put special emphasis on public and private collaboration projects exclusively. The sectors to which projects belong must be those which promote productivity, competitiveness and sustainable growth and employment. In response to the request made by the Ministry of Business, the Board of Galicia referred a list of 74 actions, amounting to more than EUR 1,9 billion, of which EUR 351 million correspond to the funding period of the Juncker Plan, to be taken into account as initially financing projects, without prejudice to the fact that, since it is an open and dynamic list, others were proposed even more after the end of the deadline granted for the reply. In any case, we have to explain that the Union-scale project reserve will be dynamic, and it can be removed or added continuously over this time. So the fact that a project is found in the European Reserve doesn't mean it's going to be funded in the Plan Juncker bank or the new fund, but that it will allow public and private investors to have access to relevant and transparent information, which will be made available to the public via the web and which could also be connected with similar lists at the regional and national level. Let's remember that the selection of projects will be carried out by an independent committee, taking into account its viability and ensuring that public aid does not exclude or displace private investment. In addition, the resources of the fund will not establish territorial quotas, so projects must compete at European level. Galicia's active participation in the plan since the first moment was also patented last week when Galicia participated in Bilbao at the meeting of the governing bodies of the Atlantic Arc Commission, in which the creation of a working group was agreed upon, of which it will be part of our community, to study, design and propose to the Commission projects likely to be funded by the Juncker Plan. Finally, Galicia will take advantage of all the opportunities offered by this Community initiative for the benefit of our productive fabric and our citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u315	Thank you, Counselor. Group interventions to set positions. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u316	Thank you, President. A similar initiative was discussed in Commission 6 on 11 December, although in the form of a non-legislative proposal. This proposal urged the Union to draw up, within three months, a comprehensive and cross-cutting plan that sets priorities and targets, taking into account the peculiarities of our community, in investing funds from the European Economy stimulus plan, and to send Parliament the plan so that parliamentary groups can make the approaches they consider appropriate. However, in the committee, this Member has already tried to moderate the optimism – in my opinion, excessive – about the extent of the so-called Juncker Plan, which was announced to mobilise EUR 315,000 million, but which had only EUR 21,000 million in commitment: 16,000 of the Community budgets and 5,000 of the European Investment Bank, as you have just recognised. Over three months, the Juncker Plan remains little more than the announcement of a change in the economic policy of the European Union, but it needs, however, the commitment of States and more than to attract private capital. By the way, Counsellor, it needs the commitment of States, not of national States, if not Spain, because it is a multinational State; therefore, if they are the national States, we have nothing to do with Plan Juncker, we are left. For now, as I say, it's still a 21 billion commitment. We are now ending the month for what was announced to be the start of the plan, so that the arrivals of the states do not include the calculation of the deficit. It all points to the fact that the flexibility of the deficit is going to be redirected to France, but it won't go down from the Pyrenees; at least that's what one of the experts who could and I had the chance to read their opinions. In any case, the European Commission's attempt to break with fiscal austerity is already good news. Now we'll see what he gives you. So far, despite the announcements by the Ministry of Economics that in the Spanish State the Juncker Plan is going to reach 53,000 million euros, the only tangible is the 1,500 million that has committed the State through the ICO, which, together with the 2,000 that correspond to it as part of the 21,000 contributed by Europe, results in 3,500 million euros, far from the cheerful propaganda with which the PP proceeds by announcing the overrun of the crisis this multi-election year. With all that reservation on the final reality of the European Economic stimulus plan, I support the need for interpellation that the Government of Greece is doing something to allow Galicia to host development projects. In the situation of public investment anemia where the PP has raised our country, no figure is negligible. The 100 million of those who talk about interpellation, the 175 if we count on the arrival of the ICO, in the hands of a more capable and less under-interested managers other than Mr. Núñez Feijóo and his government, could serve for the promotion of economic activity and the fixing of the rural population, which are perfectly within the plan. In my opinion – humble opinion – the priorities, if I had them, should include everything that has to do with the rural world, and specifically with agricultural production, to take advantage of opportunities that the disappearance of milk quota can give us if we are able to facilitate the creation or resurrection of many small farms, the farms that died victims of the common agricultural policy and of the false agricultural modernization that subjected the entry to foreign food bags of our country, business for food multinationals and ruin for the Greek agribusiness. The Juncker Plan might be worth starting to develop a strategic development plan that Galicia needs, although the People's Party, as you did in this plenary, continues to refuse to address it. They prefer to rule over the forest jump, because the spousal takes better advantage of opportunities to favor private interests with public funds, the interests mainly of their masters, but also of partners, friends and friends, with the corresponding donation to the Caritas that the Montoro cabinet discovered at the People's Party headquarters. For the future of Galicia we could start talking about the goals that the Juncker Plan proposes to meet. Financial resources are intended for viable projects offering real added value for the European market in the social economy. Plan projects include, among other things, very interesting things for our country, and which we urgently need, such as strategic infrastructures, investments in digital and energy, transport infrastructures in industrial centres – something that we have a big problem in our industrial centres – investments to boost employment – including funding for pemes and measures for youth employment – projects that are sustainable for the environment and, above all, something that we have talked about a lot in this whole and also in the Industry Commission, which is investment in innovation, and I look at some Member who really has a real battle to make them understand that innovation, research and development is essential to grow in our country. [[Laughter]] But with the majority mechanics of the People's Party in this Parliament, there will certainly be no room to speak, to wake up and promote the projects of the Juncker Plan – although it's not really had by a great leftist, not even by a medium or a small leftist – projects that would interest the majority of society. The People's Party will say no, and that the Greeks and the Greeks are delighted with their government. You should come out of doubt and submit to public opinion, see if you have the same opinion as you had in October 2012. So I'm going to support, well, this interpellation seems very correct, it's necessary for the Juncker to work on the possibilities that the Juncker Plan can offer us, and don't pick us up, as always, as we've been caught by the milk quotas, as we've been caught by the lifting of the veto to the civil construction in Navantia, that we don't get caught up in the undominated duties, and therefore we've missed an opportunity to develop it in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u318	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Counsellor, Members and Members. Do you remember "Welcome, Mister Marshall"? Neighbors spend weeks thinking about all the requests they would make from the Marshall Plan to the American friend, they conscientiously prepare the visit, full of illusions they are willing to welcome the show, and it ends up going all over Philippine, without stopping in the village, to stop the neighbors. Well, I'm very afraid, Counselor, that with Plan Juncker, the same thing that happened with the neighbors of Villar del Río in the great Berlin film. Because Plan Juncker, Counselor, is a real coat of hair, and believe me that I understand it quite well. [[Applause]] Look, first of all, it is a measure of why Mr Juncker intends to lead the policies of stimulus and recovery in Europe, the same man who, being Prime Minister of Luxembourg, has signed secret agreements with more than 300 multinationals to use Luxembourg as a tax haven; the same man who has the cynicism to warn Greece that he has to maintain the course of reforms and fiscal responsibility, that is, to warn Greece that he has to maintain the brutal cuts and the policies of murderous austerity; it turns out that he is the same man who, being the prime minister of Luxembourg, has tried to enrich his country by putting his hands on the rest's pocket, by reaching agreements with the multinationals to use Luxembourg to evade taxes. That this gentleman still presides over the European Commission is an insult to citizens and is a demonstration of what the European Union really is. Secondly, Counsellor, the Juncker Plan is the realization that the European Union's economic policies have failed sharply. Look, in a multitude of debates – yesterday, without going any further, because of their appearance, Counsellor – we have pointed out that policies obsessed with fiscal consolidation, apart from injustices, apart from the brutal increase in inequalities, are totally ineffective in favour of economic recovery, because demand cannot be reactivated by measures that reduce the consumption capacity of large sectors of the population, nor can there be growth if we renounce the reactivation effect of public investment so that it acts as the locomotive of recovery. And now we're seeing the results. Even within the capitalist world, the United States, with another strategy, is emerging vigorously from the economic crisis, the opposite of what happens with a Europe that remains stagnant and everything else that happens with the countries of the South and with Galicia in particular, which we remain united in the great depression. And what do you propose to us to the European Commission, Counsellor? Then give aspirin to a cancer patient. No revision of the policies of austerity; no effective fight against tax havens – of which Mr Juncker knows so much –; no revision of the role of the European Central Bank to be the lender of last resort of States and thus facilitate its financing; nothing to break with the perverse mechanism in the European Union to fatten banks at the cost of increasing the debt of States – the European Central Bank makes available to the banks of cheap and almost unlimited money and the banks spend an important part of that money on buying public debt, much higher interest rates, thus feeding the spiral of debt to the benefit of large financial capital, moreover, the paradox that much of these banks were rescued from public money, that much of that public debt is the result of the nationalization of the private debt contracted by banks – nothing, of course, of reviewing these policies. And, in return, what is proposed is a really fantastic stimulus plan, a plan to mobilise – i.e. – EUR 315,000 million in three years, the money that is estimated to be needed in Europe to return to the 2007 investment levels prior to the crisis. But it turns out that only 21,000 of these EUR 315,000 will be public resources: 16,000 posts by the European Commission and 5,000 others from the European Investment Bank. Because, according to Mr Juncker, this money will have a multiplier effect: each invested public euro will bring 15 euros of additional private investment. Finally, what do you propose to us, Mr. Juncker? What do you offer us? The miracle of the multiplication of the pancakes and the fish. So we share scepticism in the figures of the Socialist Group. The Spanish Government has announced that it will present projects for 53,000 million euros, but if we talk about real money, not burns, if we talk about the public money that is planned to be mobilised, the Spanish State would only be worth 2,000 million euros, when through the ICO it will provide 1,500 million for the financing of the plan, and Galicia would only account for just over 100 million euros. But in any case, Mr Counsellor, as much as we regard this plan as something totally and absolutely insufficient, we find it critical that the Spanish Government presents a list of projects not only – as the Socialist Group says in the explanatory statement – without the minimum technical and even descriptive support, but also without the minimum prior debate on which should be the priorities. Therefore, the BNG Parliamentary Group also wants to know what the participation of the Union was in the proposals that the Spanish Government sent to Brussels, to what extent the projects presented will have an impact on our country and which were the priorities that guided these proposals. Of course, for BNG the priority must be the real productive economy. You have to bet on reindustrialization, you have to bet on knowledge, on change of production model. The priority cannot be given by the Spanish State to finance these funds for actions which are covered by the multiannual programming of the general budgets of the State, Counsellor. The priority cannot, for example, be financed from this plan's delayed high-speed lines such as the LAV Murcia-Almería. But the same thing, if we're talking about infrastructures, Galicia's priority is certainly not to improve the transpyrenaic interconnections, while we're doomed to continue living back to Portugal. Not even the Atlantic railway corridor, which, despite its name, has nothing to do with the railway Atlantic axis. The Atlantic railway corridor is a corridor for the transport of passengers and goods designed to connect the Portuguese ports with Iran and Europe, not to solve the problems of connection of our ports, Counsellor. That is why we agreed with the Socialist Group that the Government of Greece should give Parliament its participation in the proposals that the Spanish Government sent to Brussels. It must also explain what were the priorities that guided these proposals and why these proposals were not submitted to an information and consultation process. Because you look, Counselor, for all information, what you said was that on November 7th, you received a letter from the Ministry of Business and by virtue of that the Galician Board sent a list of 74 performances, for a total value of EUR 1 billion, and we don't know anything else. Does it seem serious to you that not only does the Government of Greece submit proposals to transfer to the Central Government a prior consultation process, but that this information is denied, that neither this Parliament nor the whole of its citizens have access to the proposals submitted by the Government of Greece in response to that letter to the Ministry of Labour? It doesn't seem serious at all. Therefore, Counsellor, explain to this House what the priorities that guided these proposals were and what those proposals were in particular. We have a right to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u319	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u320	Good afternoon, everyone. This initiative, this interpellation has all its logic, because we have to understand the context in which we move. The Juncker Plan, which is nothing but pure financial juggling and financial engineering well practiced by a person who shouldn't be in charge of our destiny, as is the case with the well-informed LuxLeaks, already advanced by the BNG spokesman. The Juncker Plan cannot be understood without the European financial framework 2014-2020, which was and assumed – as it has already been reported here – to institutionalize the policy of cuts and which represented giving an empty cheque to the austereness and which was entitled to the suffocation and loss of rights of the working class both from Galicia and from Europe. In turn, this financial framework is not understandable without the definition of the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy, which were designed in 2010, and which talked about trying to achieve "intelligent growth through more effective investments in education, research and innovation, sustainable thanks to the momentum due to a low carbon economy, integrator, which puts emphasis on job creation and poverty reduction", goals that have not yet been achieved one looks at all the parameters and all the follow-up figures. In employment, there was talk of reaching 75% of the job for people aged 20 to 64 – that’s funny! –. In R & D, there was an investment of 3% of GDP. In contrast to climate change, there was also talk about greenhouse gas emissions, 20% or 30%, if the conditions are lower at 1990 levels. There were early school dropout rates below 10%. Or we were talking about reducing the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million. Absolute failure. Why? Because measures and instruments aimed at achieving objectives have not been logically implemented, because policies have been austere, with a restrictive character and a clear purpose: to reduce levels of public deficit and debt and to reduce the instability of financial markets. Failure of the strategy's objectives to address it. What do European leaders decide? For reducing the European Union's budgets to nothing less than 2020, 3.5 % less than average than previous sex, below 1% of gross national income in both commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. The European Commission is launching the European Fund for Strategic Investments, known as Juncker Fund, which is nothing more than tax engineering and manoeuvre. Because it's not true, it's not true that you can know that you're going to get 315,000 euros, because it's already said. Besides, this, 315,000 million euros do not make up for the 500,000 million cut since 2007. So we've already lost the game. Only 21,000 million correspond to actual public money and, of them, 16,000 budgets and 5,000 of the European Investment Bank. The financial magician Juncker foresees that each public euro will become 15 euros of private investment, so the 21 billion will become 315,000 million. It is clear, therefore, that the public money that commits is irrefutable, which demonstrates the resistance of European institutions to use public spending pans to reactivate the economy. The Commission itself recognises that this is – among other things – "to make better use of public money to attract private investors", using public money to attract private investors. The fact that private participation is so important points out that investments that take place will be completely rejected by the private profitability criterion, since companies will not invest a euro unless they expect to benefit. This implies that profitable projects in social, ecological or cultural terms will be shifted from the equation of economic profitability. In fact, the criterion of allocation is denouncing, since it appears that they will be allocated on the basis of economic viability and not other parameters such as social necessity, ecological sustainability or distribution by countries or sectors. It therefore fails for us the principle of European solidarity. And practically in mid-February, we knew the complaint in addition to the science sector that reported that the Juncker Plan would be funded at the cost of withdrawing 2,700 million euros from the 2020 horizon, so that in the years 2016 and 2017 the silver-striped silverboard was equivalent to 6%. The European Research Council itself reported that cutting 220 million euros meant 150 researchers who would not receive funds and the loss of 900 highly qualified jobs. You can't undress a saint to wear another one. It's clear that we have to use public money here and have to be willing to do so to change the production model. It is said that Spain sent at the end of December 2014 a single leaflet identifying investments by 53,000 million, for some 60 projects – it seems to be – 29 for transport, 17 for information technologies, 12 for energy and 2 for the environment. And, looking at the requests, you already have the impression that you're wasting the opportunity to invest in employment and resources that allow the population to get out of the well and improve their living conditions. So we share this interpellation. In fact, AGE had registered an initiative at the end of December 2014 for the European Affairs Committee. And there we asked, and therefore we used this interpellation to ask many questions that come to mind and from which we have not yet received answers, because we do not know what the work the Welsh Executive does in that regard, what is Galicia's role in this background, what was the relationship of the Greek Executive to the State Government apart from that letter, what were the specific demands of the Greek Government, the chronology, the application, the technical character, the social character, the benefits that were requested from Galicia in charge of that fund, criteria for its selection, development and timing of the application. Which yellow agents are going to be involved? What are you going to invest? What are the projects that will allow us to define a new production model that removes us from the current sectors that are the only ones that are prevailing, which is the construction again and the service sector only again? What are the benefits of employment, social cohesion, environmental criteria? These are the questions that need to be answered, that Galician society deserves to hear, because of course the only thing we see here, indeed, is a project that sells smoke at a necessary time, because we need to hear hope, but from Europe onwards everything that has come to us, both the Juncker Plan and the Europe 2020 Strategy, as well as the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020, is all inserted in a cut-off path, and therefore with the cut-off path and the deficit ceiling path, because logically we will not be able to get out of the hole in which we are immersed. So you can't build a people's Europe, this Europe is unusual. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u321	Thank you, Mr. Ron. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor. It seems to me that after all the intervention of the opposition and of its own proper return a little to the basics. What are we talking about? Because there are so many aspects – ideological, political, beliefs, European, national, Greek, sectoral practices – that perhaps we are forgetting a little about the specific and specific nature of this inquiry that Mr. Losada almost wanted to focus, at least on the role, that is, the reaction, the response of the Greek administration to the Juncker Plan. What is Plan Juncker, regardless of Plan Juncker now of his status as President of the Commission? He is responsible, he has an initiative to make the public spending and fiscal stimulus policy of the European Union as a whole, for the 28 countries of the Union. We have to debate this. What are we doing here? What are we doing here? Mr. Martínez has already said exactly what they are doing: processing projects for consideration. He explained the institutional political framework, it is not channelled, it is the projects of the States, it is the states that are the protagonists of the expenditure initiative. That is, the Spanish State then consults the autonomous communities, the autonomous communities vehicle projects, in this case it has exactly 74, of 1,9 billion, with the annual periodicities, and for the set of nature they have: meeting the objectives, profitability, etc., etc., possibility of mixed character, the whole set of what were the energy elements, R & D, transport, etc., etc. Very clear. But the pronouncement about what you're doing, if an interpellation has the specific function of control of specific public action, I haven't heard anything. I don't know if it's good for them or not for them. I've heard a lot of general ideological criticism from the socialist spokesman, but I haven't heard whether the real practice of European public spending policy is appropriate for a specific project that is being done by the Galician Union. Mrs Martínez, from the Group of the European People's Party, seems to me that she does not even consider, yet she does not know, that this fund that is in the European Investment Bank does not cancel the other structural funds of the European Commission; that is, it does not cancel them, it is not competitive, it is a new policy instrument – so to speak – of a Keynesian type, if we have to speak of some economic ideology. Well, Mr Jorquera, really, like this initiative, the Galician Union has already been at the meetings of the Atlantic Arc, because it is a European type plan that has elements of European investment utility, with European models that do not exclude, which opens Galicia, can open Galicia in transport. That's why Galician leaders were in Bilbao at previous meetings, etc., etc. From this I really hear myself even by the press, you can read, you can also document these aspects. With regard to Mr Ron, I should say that what is the economic model of this plan and of European policy, which is not really the competence of the Galician Union, but that we must clarify exactly what it is consisting of. Today European policy has a fundamental footing, it is a fundamental element, which is monetary policy, which is entering – so to speak, if we want to use labels – by breaking with monetary austerity. The policy of quantitative ease, use, facilitation, for example in the Spanish State of 60,000 euros a year is fundamental, that is what everyone was asking for, is there. To the very low types of interest, what we have to say is why it reaches the real economy or not, how it's coming and how it's not coming, etc., etc. It is a central element, of course, of parliamentary policy, of all Members who are part of the Courts in the state as a whole, and which we too must participate, but it is a fundamental object. But there is another path, which is public spending policy, fiscal policy, fiscal policy that is called this because it has the binomy of public spending to stimulate demand, to stimulate the productive economy, to stimulate the real economy. What exactly is this plan looking for? Is this an attempt to do this? Is it finished? No, no, no, no. When it was being discussed that monetary stimuli were used, first criticisms, but it was moving forward, it was already materialized. As it's already materializing as an extraordinary program of monetary stimulus, it's about completing a real economy program, that's what it's all about; so it's starting. What's the matter? The tax mechanism cannot be used, it cannot be or the European Union has no capacity to raise taxes, it does not have that competence, it is national competence. So, where are you going to make public spending? Where are the opposition proposals for the European Union to make public expenditure in Galicia? How? They can't raise taxes. When we always talk because there are cuts in some cases, which we had to discuss a lot of this, that is, where do we raise taxes, to feed the public sector? Because the Galician Union, and much more so the Fairy Councillor, has to conquer that income is met, income is called taxes with a debt limit that will also be paid by taxes. So that's real politics, monetary economy, real economy and real politics. I don't see any kind of real policy, just by the Council of Business and the Government of the Union, which specifies exactly the number of projects and amounts, which logically at least was criticized in Commission 6 that there was not yet and we had a previous debate. But there is even too much project offer in this regard, because even this figure overflows the entire initial contribution of the Spanish State; that is, at least one can choose; and above all, as Mr Martínez said, it is an open list, a continuous process; and then, in addition, it attempts to depolitize itself with independent committees, with control and debate of the European Parliament. I think we're at a time when it's not being seen to be better or worse. They put critical elements and there is no other sensitivity, another initiative, another framework of proposals in Europe with regard to what is a broader European economic policy. Until now only the States are doing so, until now fundamental economic policy is the States, with a series of structural support, with the 1% limit that enters the European Community, which cannot be excessive, with regulatory elements and the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. But where was the stimulus policy? And if there are problems, as we know, as your lordships know, in particular those who have economic training, how do you stimulate, how do you replace – but you can all find out, do you understand? – how do you replace, as the advisor said, the fundamental problem that is the decline in aggregate investment in Europe, the product of the crisis, how does that investment relaunch? [[Murmurs.]] And here is an instrument to complement the policy that is being done in States. We have, ever since 2009, when we enter this project, formed an economic team. The spokesperson with whom I have the honour to collaborate with him, as other people, that we are not, with you and with all, we always place as a fundamental obligation of the People's Party of Galicia to boost productive investment, to make industrial fabric, to make agricultural fabric, that is, to make production. How do we stimulate the real economy? We've always seen that all the instruments are that, because that's the creation of employment and wealth, which then logically in Fairy you'll have the obligation to make unpopular the task of recording in some way or other the ability to pay, the principles of profit. But if we haven't done this task, and fortunately it's very significant that it's precisely the new advisor to Fairy, that all policies and the general framework for having a temporary idea, that's why we do programs and plans, so that all sorts of initiatives and policies are framed in a model. Obviously, we consider it to be a very appropriate path, and we support it, but frankly, this kind of initiative and the conception that you have exposed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u323	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Replica. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u324	Thank you, President. First question. This member of the worst caste, of course, has the habit, Mr Arias, of talking about ideology in the Galician Parliament; it may be a perversion, but it has the habit of talking about ideology. I don't know what you want Members to talk about here; we can talk about molecular biology, but I think we have to talk about ideology, and the economy, as you well know, Mr. Arias, has ideology, has ideology, it's not an accurate science, it doesn't reproduce in a laboratory; unfortunately, in many cases it's manipulatable, and therefore knows perfectly well that it has ideology. I believe that, in fact, the Juncker Plan has problems, I thought so. I am also firmly convinced that we have to take advantage of opportunities, all of them, and I don't believe in ideological apriorisms when there is money in a state and in an autonomous community that has an unemployment rate that is above 20%, and if not, we have to explain it to the people who are out there, we have to tell you that because of issues of macropolitics or superstructurals in Marxist terms we refuse to compete – as we say in some way – for funds that are certainly scarce, but that – I insist – are there. Counselor, the truth is, there's a certain disunity. Look, you say on November 7, 2014 the Spanish State, the Government of Spain, asked them for a list of projects; you sent 74 performances, 1 billion euros; I understood that: on November 7, it seemed to me to understand November 7. Well, the fact is that on 11 December, i.e. a month later, the People's Group, in the 6th Commission or in the European Affairs Committee – I don't remember now – voted against the participation of the Government of Greece in or if it took part in the decision of the Government of Spain towards the funds of the Juncker Plan. For I don't know the voicer or voicer of the People's Party here who talked to the Government, but, man! it would be nice that, if they're really doing it, by the way, I'm surprised at the discretion, Mr. Counsellor, which surprises me at the discretion, a government so mediatic, who does a press round in San Caetano because they hired an investigator, doesn't tell us anything about investments for 1 billion euros, listen!, that we're not fools, eh!, that we're not fools, we're not fools, we're not fools. [[Applause]] Unless she's a real barbarian, which she might as well be. I, of course, as soon as I get out of here, will ask, by article 9, that relationship of projects, because I recognize a certain intellectual curiosity, a certain intellectual curiosity. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Spain arrived at the Juncker Plan late, bad and bad. It came out in the press that faced other countries that presented detailed projects, countries with unemployment rates of 5%, of 7%, of 10%, at much of 11%, this one, which has only 24% – it's almost nothing, Mr. Counsellor! – it presented – and I quote textually the newspaper expand, little suspect of conviviality with the Marxist left –: "Spain has presented a surprisingly demanding documentation, in other words, non-existent, a single page." To detail 53,000 million euros, one page is not bad; I suppose that's where the 74 projects that you presented to the Galician Union are included. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Counselor, look, they have to... a little bit of... finally, don't think we're idiots, because we're not imbeciles. Gauss bell, everywhere Gauss bell, pure statistics. Next day: "Spain welcomes the Juncker Plan to mobilise investments with shyness." And I'm going back to the numbers, because I think we have to repeat them. Italy, Germany and France have put on table 8,000 million euros each. Italy has 10% unemployment, France has 10 times something and Germany has 4.8%. That means that Italy and France put 150 euros per capita each; Germany, 100 euros. Spain, 1,500 million euros, with 24% unemployment. Go – I insist – tell them out there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u325	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u326	...that we have an intense previous study strategy. That's right, that means 30 euros per head. So what the Galician Union has to do is, if it is really participating, be transparent; if it is not participating, acknowledge that it is not participating, because I repeat again: the initiatives that this parliamentary group has presented in this Parliament in which we ask it to vote against. Hey, so what? Are they participating or not participating? Because if they take part and vote against, they have to make them look, eh!, they have some structural imbalance problem there that they really have to look at. So, I think that the greatest respect, as it may not be otherwise, Counselor,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u327	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u328	...but come here to read us the brochure of Plan Juncker and get our hair...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u329	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Shut up. Mr. Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u330	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Juncker Plan involves a change of approach in how to use public funds to make investments in Europe, through new financial instruments to reserve projects at European level, and this is in a more stable regulatory environment. The plan has an implementation schedule that began last summer and is expected to end with its final approval in the middle of this year. At the moment, the plan is pending for approval by the European Parliament, which has already shown its support for the general lines. In addition to the initial contribution, Member States, directly or through their national promotion banks or similar bodies, will have the opportunity to contribute to bringing capital. But it is also important to note that private investors can also participate in the Fund, which will act through various channels: guarantees on bank loans, subordinated loans, take stock shares, among others, which will allow funding of strategic projects across the Union, such as transport, energy and research infrastructures, and also for the financing of pemes and medium-sized venture capitalisation, i.e. those that have between 250 and 3,000 employees. Approximately 75% of these projects will go in the long term for infrastructure, also for strategic energy, transport, R & D, education, energy efficiency, complementing other existing programs, such as the Connect Europe or Horizon 2020 mechanism. The remaining 25% will be earmarked for pemes and medium-sized ventures, such as loan-covering guarantees, and will be complemented by the European Investment Fund, which was established in 1994 and which provides venture capital to small enterprises, in particular those that begin and those that are oriented towards the technology sector. The new Strategic Investment Fund will be integrated into the structure of the European Investment Bank, and will have a management body, which will ensure compliance with the agreed investment guidelines, and an independent investment committee, which will assess the feasibility of projects. I don't want to end up without remembering again that projects submitted by Spain are not a closed list; on the contrary, they are an open list for three years. For possible incorporations, the Minister of Economics has already transmitted on several occasions that his department will maintain dialogue with the autonomous communities. In any case, project selection will ensure that public help does not exclude or shift private investment. In addition, the resources of the fund will not establish territorial quotas, so projects must compete at European level. The Spanish Government itself, as a Member State which is, is the one who has the ability to provide projects that may be included in this plan. In fact, in its document referring to the European Commission's working group, it expressly points out that this is a list of indicative projects. It does not represent a complete or comprehensive list of all projects that can benefit from Union support, be financed by the European Investment Bank or any other financing vehicle developed in the so-called Juncker Plan. Don't hesitate, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia will continue to work, as from the very first moment in which the plan was known, for the absorption of resources from all those projects and investments that are a necessity for our community and that allow us to achieve a better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u331	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u332	...in growth and job creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u333	Thank you, Counselor. We turn to item 7 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. Question by Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and three other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the criteria followed for the selection of the participants to the meeting taken from the cable in Florence in relation to the potential of the Costa da Morte as a tourist destination
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u334	To put the question, Mrs. Soneira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On February 21, the People's Party held a meeting in Fistra with the prominent presence of the president of the Deputy, Mr. Diego Calvo, and the director of the Galician Tourism Agency, Mrs. Nava Castro. The meeting is held on the premises of the Fistra Town Hall. It, of course, only attended mayors and candidates of the PP at the next municipal elections of the Costa da Morte and some previously selected tourism businessmen. We're talking about the Forest Town Hall. There is no supportive symbolology of any kind, done in an institutional public place, announced measures and actions promoted by both provincial and autonomous institutions. It plays with that calculated ambiguity where the institution mixes with the partisan to convey the idea that PP and institutions are the same thing. The Government and other institutions are a heritage asset of the People's Party explained by the Baltar family in that slogan that said, "If you are in the PP,..." –Suspensive points – and Mr. Baltar threatened it with a trumpet, Mr. Louzán has already made a high-quality leap and now announces it from the pulpit by putting behind the sacred symbolology and the belief of many people; it is an important qualitative leap. [[Murmurs.]] Also, last week, in an event organized by the Conseilería do Medio Rural et do Mar in the Town Hall of Santa Comba, the attendees – who thought they were going to receive first-hand information from the Galician board on the CAP, the end of quota policy and everything else – found themselves on the propaganda table of the People's Party of Santa Comba, as it should not be otherwise, because all this is part of it. We were led by professionals from the Costa da Morte tourist sector because they didn't give credit and they didn't know if the president of the MP or an organic leader of the People's Party spoke there. They didn't know why some entrepreneurs were in that act and others were not in that act. And, of course, what do you want me to say? I think the image of other countries and models comes to mind, without going further, something that you like very much, for example, Venezuela or the People's Republic of North Korea. Of course, our question is clear: what was the criterion for selecting or inviting or why divine mystery – given what Mr. Louzán does – some entrepreneurs learned that there was an act there to discuss the tourist potential of the Coast of Death and others not? And why do you even play with this ambiguity without knowing what the PP is and what the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u336	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Thank you very much. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u337	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Soneira, the second "related" question – between you and me – with the tourism that you make me in full in this legislation and look at what you're going to ask in a government control session. Now you make – I suppose you've already finished the questions of who sleeps with who and who goes to Montepío – party control session, now it's party control session, watching what acts the People's Party organizes. [[Murmurs.]] You will know – if not, I tell you, I suppose you already know – that the President of the Crown Deputy is the provincial secretary of the People's Party in the Crown, and you will know that the Tourism Secretary is responsible for the Committee on Tourism of the People's Party in Galicia. And then, the difference between what you do, and I suppose that's why some businessman will tell you, is that they're sometimes called from the Socialist Party to talk about tourism or to ask a question about tourism in Parliament, not that he comes here to ask for explanations of what the People's Party does about tourism. Indeed, it calls on employers to talk about tourism, and if anyone feels excluded, it sure as hell wasn't the party's intention. [[Applause]] Now, man, it's the risk when you do an act of tourism organized from a party. You guys, as they don't do any, like the only thing you do after is to come here and ask us the acts that we do... I'm glad to do them, honestly. Now it is in this fashion – I tell you – of a control session through Parliament of what the People's Party does. But they don't just do it here, they do it in Vigo, too. Now the thing is that acts summon the mayor of Vigo and he doesn't go, then he says he hasn't been summoned even though he's got the mails calling him, and it turns out you're musketing because the leaders of the People's Party are going. I hope they were also responsible for the Socialist Party, which, above all, also hold institutional positions and do not go to important acts. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, really, if you bother her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u338	Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment, Counselor. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do the favor. Mr. Gallego. Mr. Gallego, please. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, you have a second call to order, it looks like a lie! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, you can continue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want a call to order, too? [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, you can continue. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u339	Thank you very much, Madam President. I already tell you, Mrs. Soneira: if the problem is that some businessmen – according to you say, I don't know whether it's true or not; perhaps it is because, I say, as they don't call them – told you that you'd like to have been in the sectoral tourism acts that the People's Party does, and that's done in Fisterra, in the plenary room, by the way, in the same plenary room where the next week the Nationalist Block in Wales also made an act using the plenary room to make an act of party, which is perfectly lawful if requested by the proper rubber, as I suppose it would be. Those who don't ask for it are you. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, do you want to know what you talked about there to tell those business people who say you'd like to go? Well, look, from the geodestiny of the Coast of Death – which, indeed, needs to be further enhanced – of the maintenance and promotion of the route Forest the Muxia, the adequacy of the firm, the cleaning of the road, the inspection of signs, the management of shelters on the road...; indeed, of things that are done for tourism from the Unity of Galicia, because things are done. From encouraging the private sector to create, promote and market tourist packages, empowering experiences related to nautical and sports activities... that is, everything that does a serious government to boost tourism... and that a serious party has to explain to people when it organizes party events. [[Murmurs.]] Then come the control sessions; when there are no ideas to talk about the government, it's about the party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u340	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u341	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u342	Replica... Silence, please! Ma'am, do me a favor. Mrs. Soneira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u343	Thank you, Madam President. So that I don't get the President's attention, I'll say, Mr. Rueda, you're a political swindler. Of course, I read Ruz's entire report, and I'm telling him because here are some issues that come out reluctantly. [[Murmurs.]] And you're cheated when you're irregularly funded with black money for 18 years, according to a judge, and where two pages are dedicated to funding the Galician People's Party. We'll talk about it, we'll talk about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to tell you that, just like that, you do it today, Mr. Rueda, because, look, you cheat when you talk about the Nationalist Block Galego or the Socialist Party itself, that we've made acts there – at least the Socialist Party does it when it's an act of the party – put behind a frontal where it clearly puts PSdEG, everyone knows it's a party act. There was nothing there, you play with confusion. The same confusion that causes Mr. Industry Counsellor to take a perfectly unknown walk through Vigo, giving him the rank of institutional representative when he isn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When the same Industry Advisor receives in his office a group of entrepreneurs from Pontevedra and, oh!, he is accompanied by the PP candidate in Pontevedra, and you say they don't attend. In fact, did the Members of Pontevedra in this House receive the invitation of the Industry Counsellor to meet in the noble hall of his councillorship with entrepreneurs in Pontevedra? And I'll tell you the last one, Mr. Rueda. Last week, the President of the Public Service Ports of Galicia visited my people, and it turns out that two worthy – one Member and one Member of this House, who I am delighted that they were there – were accompanying him; I suppose he would warn them and invite them, this Member did not deserve that honor, what do you want me to tell him? And you tell me that all of this is by chance and that, well, it just goes down like this, no more, no more, no more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Rueda, honestly, getting her hair on the other side and the other people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Replica by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u345	Thank you, President. Miss Soneira, with you, never anything new under the sun. When you're done with the ideas – which is usually the minute to ask the question – it starts with the usual one. And you've already started with the affairs of the past: that if Ruz, who is financed... we can talk about his funding... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u346	Quiet, please! Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada, please! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The councilman and vice president have the floor for that. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Acuña, that's what I was missing: listen to you. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vice President, follow you, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u347	Madam President, yes, I regret the nervousness of some Members when a fellow's question to a member of the Government for an act of his party in which the main problem we have to deduce is that the PP organized an act without placing a poster behind which he had said the People's Party of the Crown. [[Interruptions.]] [[Interruptions.]] That's the main problem and that motivates a question. [[Applause]] In the end, put it down, Mrs. Soneira. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] That's the problem. The problem is that Mrs. Elena Muñoz, the candidate in Vigo, goes to acts to which – I insist – the mayor of Vigo is summoned and does not go even though she is summoned and then says she is not going. [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it all comes down to that a lady – who, by the way, always says they don't know anything – good propaganda is making her. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] We sincerely thank him. She's all she's doing is watching acts of public interest, where they don't attend... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u348	Quiet, please! Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u349	...not the mayor of Vigo or any government representative in acts that are fundamental to Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Soneira, I'll tell my colleagues in the People's Party in the Coruña that, when they do an act, they have to put a poster behind them, which you like more about the acts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't argue it's an act of the party, but if you've got a poster behind you, because you don't do tourism, you don't put a poster behind you. [[Laughter]] I'll applaud you when you do an act by the Socialist Party on the Death Coast talking about tourism – if that's what you miss, they'll give you just as much as you post or not, they'll like you to talk about tourism so you can then confront some idea and draw some conclusion. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose this will be useful for those who really want – as we want – to go forward with all the tourist potential on the Coast of Death. In any case, look, if we talk about meetings – and since you pull it out, and this is a clear question – we're talking about the party control session, because we're going to talk about parties. We'll never hold a meeting from the administration to tell the administration people this comes from a newspaper: "If we don't win the elections, you're not going to work at the board." Delegate to Jaén... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u350	Mrs. Quintas! You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u351	...of the Socialist Party to the Board's workers. That we will never do, and if we do, they probably call Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Interruptions.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u352	Quiet! Quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I suppose everyone has the right to speak, and if you ask him, the vice president will answer, and, therefore, here I am the one who gives the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ma'am! [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Question by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Gaga de Left alternative, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to improve the data related to the situation of self-employment in Galicia at the beginning of 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u353	Mr. Fajardo has the floor to ask his question. Give a voice to Mr. Fajardo's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u354	Good afternoon. In this Parliament where everyone has the right to speak, except for some, that we can say some things yes and others no, we want to ask the Government... that, by the way, if we change our criteria, because we were called at noon to suggest that the answer would be done by the councillor of Fairy and it seems that they have changed their criteria. All right, but it would be nice if we were to be informed, too, in that sense. We want to ask the advisor about the measures he will take regarding the situation of entrepreneurs and self-employed people in this country. You should know that only in the first two months of this year has 38% of jobs created in this sector been destroyed in the whole of 2014. I mean, in just two months, 1,201 autonomouss were expelled because they lost their status as self-employed, and therefore their job. We, we want to ask the advisor what they intend to do in this situation, because this is the typical policy scam of the People's Party: to convince a number of citizens to adopt self-employment when what they're doing is condemning them to poverty, not just their business and their initiatives, but to poverty for the rest of their lives because they then have to respond to very important debts generated in this step. You have sold two initiatives as fundamental that, of course, are – and if shown – a mistake. The first is the bonus for the hiring of self-employed. The results in Galicia of this measure are that only 7.38 % of self-employed people have applied to this bonus. The other one they proposed is the flat rate for the youth self-employed. But the fact that they didn't tell these autonomouss is that if they didn't have funds in their account, they automatically lost the condition of this bonus and they would pay 100 percent of these amounts. From the Gaga Alternative on the Left, we asked him if they had planned to implement some of the measures that the self-sufficient really ask for. First, the problem with financing. There's not enough of these aids you give them, but if you give them a year after the process has begun, and in many cases, if you refuse them for lack of funding in your own office. Funding aids, but above all, it also reduces tax pressure. When are you going to approve that autonomous quotas are proportionate to their income and not fixed quotas, which, of course, pose a risk to the autonomous? Finally, what explanation do you have for the disappearance of 38% of the self-employment generated in 2014 in just two months?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u355	You have the floor to answer, the vice president. Mr. Fajardo, what question are you asking? No, I was seeing that the question you had to ask now was the question about the actions planned by the Government, at 7.7, the last. [[Murmurs.]] Well, if you think we're asking the question, which is in writing... of course, that's not the question! [[Laughter]] No, let's calm down a moment of silence. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I spoke to Mr. Fajardo to tell him whether he could answer in the second place to question 7.7. [[Laughter]] I suppose Mr. Fajardo was wrong and he didn't do it any other way. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So, as I know you've been wrong, but you know that's question 7.7 that you have to make, and it's made in writing, Mr. Vice-President will answer question 7.7, if you like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Rueda, you have the floor to answer. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I can ask you a second possibility: that you do 7.7 and the other one is already done, and the answer then, in your order, the advisor. It's all I can tell you. I think it's a fair measure. Ask yourself your question now, which you have to ask. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, do you ask the question or do you give it up for granted? Well, come on. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the left-wing Galician Alternative, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in relation to the plot of political-business corruption known as Operation Zeta
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u356	Well, in any case, I'm true that I've released the milli per zordo, but I've heard him say the words of the question I've asked before. But there's no problem, because I ask the question about Operation Zeta. But to avoid confusion, who will answer this question?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u357	Let's see, Mr. Fajardo, time is running and it's going...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u358	No, no, but tell me who's going to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u359	He'll answer the government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u360	You're gonna answer my government, okay, okay. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I explain this intervention. I got a call during mealtime to change the order of questions and I gladly accepted, and it seems to me that the two interlocutors didn't have the right ability to understand each other. We were asking about Operation Zeta, which is being developed in the courts, about a current issue that has to do with new initiatives and which, of course, need explanations from the Council. I'm going to ask the advisor, but I don't know who's going to answer me. He said we were going to ask the advisor because the first question is that now, from the trial, they ask what the political responsibilities, during those years, of the advisor, and therefore there are two possibilities: that they are asked because they are going to be imputed to the advisor, or because they are going to be named as witnesses. We therefore wanted the advisor, once and for all, to explain what relations she had with this plot that used funds for the unemployed in this country to finance – as appears in the summary – the People's Party. But we also wanted to ask the Government about that change that speaks of the family, because Gerardo Crespo speaks of that achievement, Mr. Pachi Lucas, who was the "conceiver of the People's Party" not only because he was a good friend of Feijóo, but because he was Rajoy's and because he was a "family" of Pontevedra; that concept of "family" which, so close to the mafia, manages the People's Party. So we want to ask the People's Party how it is possible and where these dangerous friendships from the People's Party come from with winners in corrupt plots. Dangerous friends that seem quite usual on the part of Mr Feijóo. It seems he has a quite dangerous ability not to have friends with decency; there is no need to remember more than his voyages in yachts by the Arousa stream. So the question is obvious: in the face of this new situation, could the Government clearly explain how they relate to the achievement of this plot and to where the Government is involved, after the new decisions of Justice to ask for the situation of the General Training Directorate and also of the Labour Adviser? [[Applause]] You have the word Mr. Alfonso Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u361	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Fajardo, you in your question, who also signs, says what he plans to do the German Government. So ask the German Government and answer the Greek Government. I guess there won't be any problem at all. Look, you answer by saying that, if what you expect is that we enter that path that is not the first time you try to mark, that we do – or we do to you, better – the game when you try to make a judge... now you come to ask what meaning you have and where you go a series of diligences that makes a trial within a summary that is being instructed. I mean, as you do as a judge, he wants us to do as well and among all, see if we come to the conclusion that he likes you. Don't count on us for that at all. They've tried to do that before. Look, today's a good day to ask this question. Today, we know the resolution of the archive about Mrs. Paula Prado, it's a good day to recognize everything you said, everything you said, and you personally, from that place, and it would be a good day for you to apologize, after all you had to endure, and not for you to do again as a judge, again as an inquisitor, and again requesting collaboration with us for something we're not going to do. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] To make judges there are already the judges. If you want to make inquisitioners, and go to the people taking advantage of that seat, don't count on the German Government. That's the assessment made by the German Government about what you just said right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u362	Mr. Fajardo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u363	Well, now I'm clear why you don't care who you answer. Totally, for what they're going to tell, no matter what you answer. How they come to answer anyone who finds them in the street, because that answer can give anyone. Look, as far as Mrs. Paula Prado is concerned, we don't know the car because it's out of the question. We're going to read the car, because surely the causes a person ceases to be charged may be several. But above all one question, the recordings are there and we all listen to them. The two "gift gifts" nobody invented it, did they? The two "gift gifts" nobody invented it, did they? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The situation in those Maya bee bills has not been invented either. So there's one thing that's criminal responsibility and another is political responsibility. And, of course, the political ethics of the People's Party in this case, and in many others, remains evidence. But look, I'm asking you questions because in these appearances at Mr. Gerardo Crespo's recent trial, he talks about that Feijóo's friend has also arranged meetings with Ana Pastor of the now accused. They should therefore explain how it is possible for you, who do not have time to receive the crisis sectors and companies with problems, to have this facility to meet with achievement and defendants; how it is so easy to meet or sleep in the president's house, but it is impossible for those in the siege to be received by that president to talk about complicated situations. This person also said at the door of the trial – and they should explain it –: of course politicians – would refer to the politicians of the People's Party Government – are involved, they are lying, and they want to get rid of this cause. That's a reality that this person poses, and that, of course, from the Government should explain what their situation is and how it is possible that these degrees of influence around a winner have such a good relationship with each of the members of the Government, from Feijóo to Ana Pastor and to Mariano Rajoy himself. Of course, the workers in difficulty and the sailors don't have that ease to get close to the Greek Government that they do have those who are in trouble for spending money from the workers in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u364	Thank you very much. Replica from Vice-President and Chairlor, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Alfonso Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u365	Mr. Fajardo, I'll tell you again that, when you read cars, there was a car that could also be read today, which is more appropriate. You, of course, as always, allude to the car that suits you and not the other, which could be what Mrs. Paula Prado refers to. I'm going to say it again, and I think it comes up to you for all you've said about it and it's in the Journal of Sessions for a lot of plenary sessions, which today was a good day, I'm not saying to apologize, I know that you don't understand or you're not going to do it, but it's on the table. Because look, after thinking that the presumption of innocence is useless, that the separation of powers for you is the lack of it. Yes, for you, of course, it's good, but it's not good for others. After the democratic values that sustain them, think that powers are independent, and that when something is said that's what you respect, if you're not worth it, we really do. Now we're told what else an auto judiciary can say. Of course, it gives the judicial self that does not suit you!, that the important thing is what you think about political responsibilities, that everything else is the least, that will not give you any value, and here you have to talk about your interpretation, or about the interpretation of your group – because several members of your group have already said it – and at that we have to turn all, as if we had done with judges, and interpret what a judge wants to do and interpret what a dilicence means. Look, if you judge and prejudge as you always do, we won't. We always said we were defending the presumption of innocence, and I'm glad, in the end, to see that we were right. We've always said that we collaborate with justice, and we're going to continue doing so in Operation Zeta, as I think we've shown so far. We have denounced this case at the prosecutor's office when we know it, we take steps not to repeat it, and we will be accompanying the judicial proceedings to the end, it falls down, of course, as much as you want to bring these things here every time it suits you, as much as you want to discriminate between cars that suit you and cars that – as they pull out the colors after everything you say – don't want or name. I'm so glad you asked the question this day, because we'll never make judges. There is a companion who has one day today I think happy for everyone, because she claims her innocence, and you again take the opportunity to prove that they make judges of all those who want to burn in the fire. It doesn't contain with us, the separation of powers is sacred, even if you ignore it more every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the new situation of the Mexican oil tanker Pemex
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u366	Mr. Adam Villamarín has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u367	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Before you ask the question, since this is about the naval sector, you also express your condolences to the deceased worker's family in a tragic occupational accident in Navantia, which I suppose is added to the whole House. Counsellor, the policy of the People's Party's Government Naval, we can say that the headline hit was made. So, we also want to ask you the question about Pemex. And I couldn't find any better than a press registrant just a month ago. Pemex and Galicia, 21 promised boats, 2 assisted. So, with this headline, if we come back until May 2012, we can find what was the beginning of that idyll between Galicia and Pemex, when Pemex began to be a constant part of the political debate: "The Galician Union and the Mexican company have just come to an agreement to build 14 trailers." They used to be chemists. June 2012: "He made sure that the dates for the construction of the 14 trailers will be more accurate." August 2012, Punta Langosteira: "The arrival of Pemex will entail a direct investment of 70 million dollars, 57 million euros, for the assembly of the infrastructure that will allow the distribution of its liquid grains. This will mean a business that will increase by 20%." Follow the news. On September 19, 2012: "This Wednesday, an act called of urgency will surely be recalled by the honourable Members, in full precaution by the German Government to stage the signing of two contracts by the Mexican oil tanker Pemex." Famous contracts, right? Remember, an operation that would amount to 300 million euros and 3,000 jobs over two years. March 2013: "The Pemex oil tanker shows his interest in controlling the Vigo Barreras shipyard, purchasing necessary to build the promised fleets a year ago, in that election campaign." Let's keep going. September 2014: "Part of the fleet of Pemex in charge of Navantia will be built in Cadiz." February 2015: "Pemex abandons his projects in Barreras, but will remain the first shareholder." Shortly thereafter, Economic Counsellor Francisco Conde launches a message of tranquility, although he cannot guarantee the execution of engaged vessels: a 20 million Euro tunaman, a budgeted supplier of 85 million and 3 tanks for Pemex itself, worth 215 million. Given the situation, Counselor, we have several doubts. First, the agreement signed between Pemex, framework agreement or contract that we could never have access to it, did it contain any clauses on Pemex's non-compliance?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u368	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam, thank you very much. Mrs. Adam, you don't have the floor anymore. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your question is already put in writing. [[Applause]] You have the floor to answer the economics and industry advisor, Mr. Count López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u369	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, from the Government and at the personal level, logically move the most sincere condolences to the family for the death yesterday in Navantia of this worker. And, logically, the most close relationship with his family and the set of his companions. Mrs. Adam, I would like to thank you, first of all, for making some statements that contained the text of your initiative. I'd like you to read it again, because there are only two options. The first one, which, in fact, is not aware of the current status of the naval, or it seems that you and your group continue with the "all worth" texture. I think, in fact, if you start getting closer to the second than to the first, but honestly it doesn't surprise me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not surprised because we know that your position, and particularly your position with respect to the naval sector, is not to see the reality, the reality of today's naval sector; your opposition, of course, does not at any time believe in the value of the workers of the naval sector; nor does it matter at all to damage Galicia's image, the image of the Welsh naval sector and the image of Spain. Of course, I think I should put aside your interests, stop erosion of the Welsh naval sector and its workers, and join the alliance of support to the naval sector and support to its workers. Look, let me remind you of the legacy you left in the naval sector. When this government arrived at Junta, the recruitment of the German naval sector, Your Honor, had fallen about 80%, and the public yard of which you so much like to talk about had no new contract since 2007. [[Protests.]] That was the legacy that, after four years in the bipartisan government, the Socialist Party and the BNG, and also the United Left from the county of Ferrol, and then two more years from the government, they left. Today reality, Mrs. Adam, is very different. The reality is that the fleet of Navantia to Pemex, which you so despise, have brought back to the civil construction of this yard; the fleet of Barreras to Pemex also subjected the return of activity after two years; and the renovation projects of the minor fleet of Pemex, as you know, are generating activity on Welsh shipyards like Armón and Freire. So Pemex's presence, indeed, is a reality. And it's a reality that Pemex has allowed its projects to reactivate the order portfolio in the German naval sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Adán Villamarín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u371	Yes, thank you. Counselor, the truth is I don't know whether to laugh, cry, or what to do here. Because if you come, the Economic and Industry Councillor, saying that a humble Member erodes the German naval sector, I really laugh, I can't help it. It's absolutely amazing. [[Murmurs.]] When I just read... we have folders full of headlines here. [[Applause]] It'll be for Pemex headlines, let's go, and cuts on Galician Public Television! We have to give and take! I even brought here one, nice, I'm going to read. February 2015: "Feijóo offers Colombia a pact similar to the signed with Mexican Pemex." This one's fine, too, isn't it? Actually, that's what we want, selling Galician balance. And when we ask you, Counselor, very seriously if the framework agreement with Pemex had any clauses in case of non-compliance, how do you answer? "You're erosioning the naval sector." Man, a little serious! If we ask you here, Mr. Counsellor, after the sale of Barreras so that two fleets could be assessed, will you claim compliance with Pemex's commitments? That's the question! Are you going to claim those compliments right now that they're in the air? That's what we want to know, because you promised 3,000 jobs, and how many are there? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nearly 500. And how are the auxiliary naval companies? Do you have anything to say here that they cover less than 7 euros an hour the welders of these auxiliary companies? Anything to say? Work more than 10 hours, arriving at 14 hours, and without charge of overtime? Or anything to say? Look, Counselor, here we're not erosioning the naval sector, we're putting a very serious problem of naval strategy on the table. You can come here and tell us, you said it in the Commission... how much was it? 1,300 million are mobilising in the naval sector? The reality is that the naval sector has a serious problem, which you sold as a rescue the agreements with Pemex. And we just ask them: Do you have that famous agreement frame any breach clause? We want to know. What are you going to complain to him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u372	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. [[Applause]] Mr. Conde López's reply to the Councillor for Economics and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u373	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Look, the question says textually – because I see you didn't want to review your question – that we're in 2015 and Pemex won't build the fleets. That's what you're saying right now and you're asking this government. You know perfectly well the reality, that the fleets of Pemex, that commitment that Pemex acquired with Galicia, with the Welsh naval sector, if they're building. You want to permanently point out that it doesn't seem like it's going to happen, and I'm very sorry. But you know that, after a long time, there are three construction projects in the Ferrol River that are under way. I am referring to the ship of maritime action of the Spanish Navy; I am referring to the fleet of Pemex, which is being built, as you know, even if you want to deny it permanently and in writing in your questions to the Government; and if you are also developing the construction project of the 29 jackets for Iberdrola. This will provide 2,750,000 hours of direct work to Navantia. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] In any case, private shipyards have also reached new constructions, and you know that this second fleet of Pemex, committed by Pemex, is being built. It seems that you permanently want to deny in writing that this is not reality, but the reality is that it is being built. And he also knows that if he's revitalizing the construction of the other private shipyards, how he can be Armon or how he can be Freire. So there's a obvious trend change due to the actions of the different shipyards, logically with a proactive policy by the Government, which is assuming a trend change. And the last test, the last proof that you're omitting... because the reality of the German naval sector you want to omit it, we don't. We value the shipyards, we value the workers, and, as you know, the last test is that adjudication of the oceanographic ship that the Government of India assigned to Freire. That's competitiveness, and that's therefore a competitive naval sector. Your Honor, Pemex's commitments are there. Pemex charged two fleets, Pemex charged different tugs, and believe me – and I mean very clear –, the important thing about Pemex's alliance with Galicia is whether it's generating wealth and employment. And the powerful answer is yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And if you don't like it, I can repeat what I told Mr. Losada in the previous plenary. [[Murmurs.]] And I told you, if you remember, Pemex's commitment is explicit. There's an explicit commitment from Pemex and it's developing -- it has no doubt -- a positive balance for our industry. And so we'll continue to work, with the whole of the German naval sector and also with Pemex's bet on the German naval sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u374	Thank you. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the situation of the performing arts in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u375	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u376	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, let's see if today we have something more fortunate in relation to the debate we want to bring to this House about the situation of performing arts in our nation in Galicia. A situation clearly of difficulty, before you can't go through the mass and say that the only problem is that there is an economic crisis and that this has a translation to the sector, in this case, cultural, because you know that there are other elements that are affecting the serious crisis that go through the scenic arts in Galicia. And one of the most influential elements is the political decision taken by the governments of the People's Party to drown economically everything that has to do with our culture, and, specifically, with the performing arts. A policy that we say is a false policy that has no origin in the crisis, but in decisions that have adopted this government. Now, look, we can go to the aid orders that Agadic is calling this year, and we'll see how the Government is threefolding Enrique Iglesias's video that this year's annuality of aid to stage production. We can also see how the Government has given Enrique Churches twice as much to help the scenic arts festivals. So, Counsellor, this isn't a resource problem, it's a problem of what the priorities of a government are. A government that we clearly say is a blind government and is a government that practices cannibalism with this country's culture. A policy that has consequences, because it is taking advantage of a fundamental element, that all the advanced countries support their culture; because employment is being destroyed; because a sector that already had a very important level of precariousness is becoming precarious, and because they are expelling to a large number of people in this country who had to create wealth. But also, Counselor, because you are impoverishing Galician cultural life. Here's the latest report by the Galician Council of Culture on the statistical panorama of the Galician performing arts. What do you tell us? That since 2009 half of the functions that have been developed in our country have been lost. This is a result of a double cause. On the one hand, we have a social work of the boxes that in practice you have eliminated, and which has a very important weight also in reducing these scenic arts, but it also has to do with the lack of real support from the Galician board for everything that has to do with the distribution and display of the scenic arts in our country. So, Counselor, today we want to know if they're going to change something of their erratic politics in relation to the performing arts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u377	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Román Rodríguez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u378	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, after hearing Mrs. Pontón say clearly that this government is blind, cannibal and that we want to drown the culture of our country, that we want to drown the scenic arts, I wonder and ask myself when we get home why? why do we want to do it? why are we so blind and so cannibal? Because, really, I'm the one you just said to disagree practically at nothing. It is clear, Mrs Pontón, that in recent years – since 2009 – there have been many changes in all sectors of the country. There was a crisis that affected all economic and social spheres and, of course, it also affected what it has to do with the performing arts; that obviously has a reflection on cultural indicators. The picture you have here, which presents us, is not what we would like, it's not what we would like, it's for discount. Now, what you're saying to us and what you're asking us is that the data you bring here should know – I suppose you know – that they relate to all the cultural activities promoted in Galicia, be promoted by the Council of Galicia or be of private initiative. You also know that the data that brings us here are only those data by which you are charged and you also know that in Galicia there are many acts of – say – free access, essentially those that make the municipalities, which are very many in this country. You also know that this data is from 2013 and will not deny me that, in 2014 and surely 2015 statistics, marking a recovery path, will improve in all sectors and, of course, also in this way as I will demonstrate with data later. Obviously, general data on stage arts and cultural sectors are in line with the evolution of the crisis itself and with the evolution of society. That's not being pessimistic or conformist, that's just being realistic and that's what you're thinking here. Look, Galicia has the same trend as the state's whole, practically the same tenure as the state's whole. I'll also tell you that in 2013, compared to other years – e.g. 2012 – there's a stabilization and in 2014, with respect to the year 2013, they're increasing, they're improving the indexes and indicators that are being proposed. In short, the panorama of the scenic arts that you ask us here is not the ideal, obviously it's not the ideal. That we'd like another one? Of course. Now that we're working to try to change this trend too, of course, be sure that it is. I would also like to say clearly that the data for 2014 are much better than those for 2013 and that, in 2015, the data that relate to performing arts and cultural consumption in general will be much better, as I will have an opportunity to tell you. In any case, you ask us if there is a firm commitment to support the sector and I, in a radical, clear and concise way, say yes, I absolutely say yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u379	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u380	Yes, thank you very much. Just tell him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u381	Thank you very much, Counselor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u382	Counselor, your time is up. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u383	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, I don't know if you think you're serious about what you're doing to this Parliament. We asked him what means he's going to adopt the German Government in the face of the difficult situation that the performing arts have in Galicia and you say, "Yes." So, I'm tomorrow when I meet with actors and actresses' associations, with theatre companies' associations, I say that the councilman of the Greek Government, in Parliament when asked about concrete measures that he's going to take on this land, he has nothing to say and that he answers us with a monosyllable in which no kind of commitment is made. It's really a symbol of how you take not only this Parliament but also the culture of this country. Look, of course, you should worry that there's this big drop in the number of exhibitions there is, because it's your department's obligation to defend the right of access to culture. And what you're testing is how cutting policies – which, in fact, cannibalism, practice this government with its language and culture – are limiting a fundamental human right to access to culture, human right to develop a basic aspect for the personal and collective development of a society. But we're also talking about economics and lost opportunities because you're destroying what has been sown for a long time with the efforts of many people, of training, of actually creating a school in this country. They even destroyed some of the issues that had settled during the two-party government: they put in a drawer the Plan of Performing Arts, they cut out completely arbitrary public support, they turned live bodies of stage production from Galicia, they left the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u384	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. [[Applause]] You have the floor for the reply of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u385	Mrs. Pontón, you are very pessimistic and you are very catastrophic. Look, it gives you the feeling after you hear it that the cultural sector, the scenic arts and culture of this country are in a perpetual crisis, except at a very particular moment in our history that coincides with the bipartisan. Give me that feeling. [[Explained words not perceived]] But, look, we would like a more constructive speech and that it wasn't always questioning the great creative talent that Galicia has in every order, I think it's absolutely being questioned here. And you, Mrs. Pontón, were telling us what tomorrow you're going to talk to the sector and say, "What do I tell the sector?" Well, look, Mrs. Pontón, tell the sector – if you do the favor – that the theater and audience network has increased its number of functions in 2014 compared to 2013 by 32%; you can say. You can also tell him that in the Theatre Hall there were, in 2014, more than 100 functions. You can also tell him that in 2014, compared to the year 2013, within the Culture on the Way program there were 318 performances in 81 municipalities compared to the previous 105, which increased the number of municipalities and the number of shows. You also tell the sector, Mrs. Pontón – please tell the truth to the sector – that this year they have been strengthened and that they are strengthening aid to the internal distribution of our scenic arts, where there are three calls in which the economic departures have increased; you can say so. And you can also tell him there was an increase in functions, from 96 to 37. You can also tell him that in 2014 the aid to performing arts and musical arts was increased by 11.25% compared to the previous year; you can say. And you can also tell the sector that, in the field of scenic production, we are the fourth autonomous community in economic support after the three, let's say, most important – Catalunya, Madrid and Basquedi – and with financial aid of 600,000 euros. You can also tell the sector that the commitment of the People's Party and the Government of Galicia is to support the audiovisual sector within its competence and within the financial resources that are being managed; that can also be said to the sector. Finally, you can also suggest that we are supporting – within our competences and within our resources – the scenic arts, making a distribution throughout the territory and proposing aids that support the production, distribution and marketing of our audiovisual products, which, of course, are of enormous quality and of enormous creative value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u386	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the measures to launch the Galician Union to combat child poverty and social exclusion through the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy for the period 2014-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u387	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u388	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The fight against child poverty must be an absolute and irrevocable priority for any government. The Labour and Welfare Council held in 2014, Counsellor, a study on the situation of child poverty in our autonomous community with the objective of having a real diagnosis of the situation of children and children in Galicia, because there was indeed a lot of data but there was no official study of the Galician Union to find out what the situation was in our community. In this study experts from the universities of Galicia, social and professional institutions in the educational field, among others, participated. Among the conclusions of this study we want to highlight one, which is that the risk of poverty and exclusion is greater in homes where they live under 16 years of age. In Galicia, the Government of the Union approved in December of last year the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia 2014-2020, a strategy we know that it has over 300 actions to fight poverty and social exclusion, and with an budget of over 521 million euros. Among its main objectives is the fight against child poverty. For all this, Counsellor, today our group wants to know what measures will put in place its council and the Government of Galicia to fight child poverty and social exclusion in Galicia. What measures are being taken and what measures will be put in place? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u389	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u390	Thank you very much, President. Attention to the most vulnerable people is one of the main objectives of the Government because it is a priority for us that is not only absolute, but that it is irrevocable. That's why we work to respond effectively to situations of risk, to situations of poverty, and even to situations of exclusion, reaching the necessary support or what these people need. That's why, by drawing up these budgets, Your Honor, since this year we've had very clear that we're not going to give up that commitment and so we've done it, by increasing the budget for inclusion one more year. Thus, matches this year are increased by 17.7 % until they reach 70 million euros by 2015, which are directly linked to inclusion. We believe that more budgeting for inclusion – I insist – is a moral obligation for any responsible government. We do not renounce our obligations, on the contrary, as we reinforce our struggle against exclusion and poverty, and today we are implementing a new law, which, as you know, is in force in our community: the Law of Social Inclusion, with a text that the Government of Greece has – it bears – a broader norm, with greater accounts and, of course, directed and directly linked to employment. We bet on it for active inclusion through employment as the right path to avoid chronicling exclusion. Within this regulatory framework, we approved in December a strategy of social inclusion of which you were talking about, which is an ambitious plan, a committed plan, and which also has as fundamental the active inclusion. This strategy is going to be our roadmap by 2020. Among its main objectives are – as cannot be otherwise – the fight against child poverty and the reduction of consequences, especially the consequences of exclusion linked to the territory; that is, territorial exclusion. In addition, it seeks to boost the integration into the labour market and improve prevention. As you know, the Government of the State has allocated in 2014 to the Autonomous Community EUR 723,000 for the fight against child poverty. This year 2015, as a result of the pressures developed from this Government to the ministry, it has increased to 2.3 million euros destined ex-professive for the fight against child poverty during 2015. All of these actions included in the strategy are designed taking into account a starting point: the evaluation of the second German inclusion plan, so that we value the experience we already have – the previous experience – and, above all, the maximum effectiveness is sought. This new document renews the previous plan, but it expands and improves significantly both in its objectives and in its economic allocation. We continue to show that it is successful and we add new initiatives. This is the result of the strategy, which has an budget of 521 million euros and more than 300 measures. The best proof of the magnitude of this strategy is, of course, increasing by 125%. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u391	Very funny, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u392	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor. We wanted to ask you today this question in this plenary because you know that, from certain political groups, if you want to transmit that the Government of Galicia is not concerned about people at risk of social exclusion. We are aware of the situation that many Greek families are going through right now. We are aware that the priority of the Government of Galicia is the fight against poverty and social exclusion. We are aware that, in this strategy of social inclusion in Galicia, you have as priority the fight against child poverty, that this strategy was designed after making a detailed study of the situation of child poverty in our autonomous community, and that this strategy was also agreed with social initiative entities. Of course, we want to add effort to the work that the Galician Union is doing, because the priority of the Government and of all Greeks and Greeks must be to fight poverty and social exclusion, but above all against child poverty. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u393	Thank you. Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u394	As you said, the People's Group is indeed conscious, but it's also the Government aware of the situation that many Greek families go through. That's why we work to assist them, to respond to their basic needs and even to direct them to employment. Our priority, indeed, is the most vulnerable people and we make a strong commitment to inclusion, increasing year by year the stakes for this purpose. No doubt, our commitment cannot be anything but total. However, the important thing is to note that the main indicators of poverty in our community, all indicators – the poverty risk rate or even AROPE – reflect that Galicia is one of the communities with better poverty behaviour than other autonomous communities. And not only that, according to the report of the state of poverty by EAPN Spain – not for any Government, but for EAPN Spain – we are the community in which the most poverty-threatening population is reduced between 2009 and 2013. We are not close to the crisis and its consequences, so we redouble our efforts, and that is why our commitment is determined by this strategy of inclusion as an ambitious project and a project of great magnitude that includes, as I said before, more than 300 measures, 521 million, more than 120% of its budget increase with respect to the previous plan. And we say, of course, that in this process we count – as we always do – with dialogue with the entities of the sector, something that has allowed us to enrich, fit, the strategy. With the entities, we have reached a total consensus in the elaboration of this strategy that has received the compliments, for example, of representative entities in Galicia such as the EAPN. And of course, of course, we also took very seriously the results of the previous plan to add them to this strategy. As I said before, our priority is to address the most vulnerable, one of the priorities is the fight against child poverty. With this objective, specific measures are included aimed at families with minors, even, of course, to guarantee basic income but a related income to families with minors – which also reinforces education –; to increase those 70 million euros that are in our budget with those more than 2 million euros that the Government of the State will allocate to the Autonomous Community of Galicia for precisely the fight against child poverty; and, of course, to improve the rest of the pillars such as giving it a perspective to social inclusion not of single and personal intervention but of family intervention, as can be anticipated by the State Government of Galicia's aid of social exclusion, as can be the creation of hour bags for mediation in areas of health or housing or how can be mechanisms to address something that is happening in our community which is exclusion because of the territory, not because of poverty. To maximize the efficiency of our strategy, it will be developed through three operational programs that we are currently completing and that will also have an evaluation of all these measures, an assessment that will be made every two years, since the plan is up to 2020, and that will, of course, provide greater flexibility in the strategy itself to succeed in our decisions. In short, what we did was we developed a strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u395	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u396	...of the first magnitude that reflects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u397	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u398	...the commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u399	Thank you. Question by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Gaga de Left alternative, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to improve the data related to the situation of self-employment in Galicia at the beginning of 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u400	Since Mr. Fajardo has already asked his question, you were here and heard it and even it is written, I give the word to the Work Councillor to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u401	Thank you, President. Galicia currently has more than 225,000 self-employed who are active, this represents within the membership of Social Security 25% of the total membership of Social Security. In other words, Galicia is the community where this collective – the collective of autonomous – occupies the highest percentage within the whole membership of Social Security with respect to the rest of autonomous communities and even the average of Spain. We are therefore talking about a collective that, quantitatively and qualitatively, deserves and receives special attention from the Galician Union, since no government has waged in such a determined manner as this by the entrepreneurs, offering them not only counseling but also economic assistance; and I do not say so, tell the facts. In an economic context as we have experienced in the past crisis, we naturally shielded the effort and budget for self-employed and cooperatives, and this year, for example, will be 27 million euros available for self-employed and cooperatives. So, since 2009, more than 20,200 autonomouss have been subsidized. With the same end we launched in 2014, within the Youth Employment Plan, a specific aid for the self-employed under 30 years of age, with which we obviously helped these self-employed who were not 30 years old. The novelty of this aid order was that the Galician Union gave 1,200 euros to every self-employed under 30 years of age who was up and who joined the state flat rate of 50 euros, which guarantees that self-employed people in our community under 30 years of age who were up were fully subsidized for social security during the first year. Also in the Youth Employment Plan we encourage youth cooperatives, encouraged also with 1,500 euros because cooperatives are also a form of entrepreneurship and are a formula that is working in our community. And it was also this Joint which he offered, for the first time in the State, to help recruit through the autonomy of his first worker, lengthening him in 2013 to help recruit the second or third person, if he had. Beyond our economic support, this collective – the autonomous one – has improved its normative framework by making it more flexible and, even, favourable for the implementation of the first Act of entrepreneurship in Galicia – which there was no other law – and as will also be the future Law of social economy. All these measures are based on the conviction that entrepreneurs are a key piece of energy for our economy and, above all, also to generate jobs. Over the past six years – i.e. with the crisis – self-employment has gained weight in the entire membership, going from what was in 2009, which was 23.4% of the membership of Social Security, now about 25%. Galicia has also been 12 consecutive months of the annual rise of the autonomous, 12 consecutive months of the increase in the number of international autonomy since 2012, which is the highest that has existed since February 2012. I do not, of course, hope that this government will recognize any merit in this matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u402	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u403	...but the truth is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u404	Thank you very much. Mr. Fajardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u405	I won't give you any credit. I'm going to give you a date that, at least, should make you reflect. 37% of the poor people in this country are autonomous; that is, only in Galicia of those 305,000 autonomous people you say are tall, about 100,000 people are below the poverty line. That's the reality of self-employment in this country. Faced with that, what will the counseling do? Tell me about this great government bonus initiative for the hire of the first worker. In the first intervention, only 7.38 per cent of the self-employed in this country responded to this measure. You know why? Because most self-employed people in this country don't employ a second worker as their problems. Its problems are other: first, financing; second, tax pressure and third, profitability. But above all, because the autonomy of this country does not exceed the first year of work. And why don't you get over it? Because that's when you're the most self-sufficient. And when you talk to me about the start-up aid, you should explain how it's possible that these subsidies never come practically in the first year of activity and that, when they arrive, in many cases you recognize the help, but it turns out that when you run out of credit you end up without collecting it. I mean, a young man who goes to self-enterprise driven by his policies that tell him that this is the perfect way out, tells him he's going to have a help and, when he has acknowledged the help, six months later he asks him for a letter where the help disappears and therefore he stops counting that amount. We asked you a question, the problem is that for the first six months, self-sufficient people can't cope with those linear expenses that you have to pay for. Why don't you make decisions once and for all that, during those months, the increase or the quota is proportional to your income? And above all, what are the lines for facilitating their financing and, above all, economic activities to make their holdings profitable? That it's none other than to activate consumption through more important wages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u406	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. [[Applause]] Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u407	Thank you very much, President. As always, you have the fear of trying to draw an overview of our autonomous community linked to poverty, linked to destruction, bound to all the darkest things there can be in our community and even to make statements that, of course, I don't know where it comes from, how to say that autonomy does not end up exceeding the first year of work. I have to speak with the rigor that gives me the data I have inside the board. And the data I have within the board is that all self-subsidised individuals, every time they receive a grant, have a commitment to keep their job for three years because, if they don't keep it for three years, they have to return the money. And it turns out that the average of 3,000 autonomouss in each year, from the year 2009 until now, of an average of 3,000 autonomouss who received a grant, 80% still maintains their job. So, of course, your rigour in speaking by saying that all autonomous – i.e., the 225,000 autonomouss of our community – in the following year they lose their jobs... of course, it says as you are always exposing their figures and always drawing that negative picture, that dark panorama, that tetric panorama that always draws from our autonomous community. Of course, we know that our main commitment is to boost entrepreneurship, that our main commitment is to help – as I said – about these 3,000 autonomous, each year, of our community since 2009. And, of course, we will continue to bet on entrepreneurship through the drive to cooperatives because they have proven to withstand the crisis better and, in fact, since 2009 there have been 324 new cooperatives who have been discharged, with more than 5,200 new partners. I've been talking about 324 cooperatives since 2009. And for that, of course, for self-employment that had a stable behavior and that even now – I tell you – we have taken more than 12 months with annual growth – i.e., there are more autonomous than last month of the previous year with growth in black numbers – because, of course, our commitment is to maintain our budget directly for self-employed people, in this case cooperatives. And besides, something must be happening when, if we talk about the autonomouss that rise up in the general regime – without taking account of the autonomouss who rise up in the field and at sea – the autonomouss who rise up in the general regime this year grew to 2.3 percent. Alongside it, of course, they also find themselves not only autonomous but the figures of cooperatives, which is a formula that is proving that it is attractive and that not even the crisis has succeeded in curbing that growth of more than 324 cooperatives that, as I said, up to now add to a total of 1,234 cooperatives that we have in our community that give 19,000 jobs. In an unfavorable context as we live, nine out of every ten societies formed under this umbrella -- not as you said they don't last one year -- nine out of every ten cooperatives are still underway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u408	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u409	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reason for the reduction to the year 2015 of the opening period of the Free Time Residence of Carballiño
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u410	Mr. Vázquez has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u411	President. Counsellor. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Labour Council has two establishments in Galicia called leisure residences, one in Panxon and the other in Carballino, where many people spend their leisure time. I want to refer specifically, Counselor, to Carballin's free time residence where something is happening that is really curious. In all the institutions of the People's Party – Council of Carballin, Provincial Deputy – there are unanimous agreements reaching a commitment to open the residence every year more months until it achieves the goal that it is practically open all year round. But, curiously, in the face of these agreements, the reality is that every year the residence closes more months so that, even this current year, we find ourselves, practically in April, still don't know what the period of these facilities will be going to run. This causes serious harm, first, to users, who are affected to enjoy magnificent facilities – allow me – in a very beautiful town where it has been a key to the local economy since now, Counselor, more than fifty-five years. This establishment opens in 1958 and has always been a trunk element of the economy of the Caribbean region. Prejudice is also paid by the workers and workers of this center, about 30 people, one of the important companies in Carballino, which has a curious feature: a work regimen of lay-offs, so that only those months of opening up this residence of free time. So, counselor, I come here today more than to ask you, first to ask you, but according to asking you to put in motion, to take advantage of these magnificent facilities, that we dynamic the economy of a region that needs you very much and, above all, that we comply with the word that we gave to workers and to society as a whole. Counselor, I think it's time to make reality something that's perfectly possible. At a time of great economic difficulty for the Galician families and all over Spain, this should be an attractive offer, an offer that had not left doubt that it was an opportunity to spend some leisure periods, and that undoubtedly would be feasible to achieve economic and financial autonomy with the use of that center itself. Only one thing is needed – counselor, finish – political will, political commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u412	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u413	Say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u414	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u415	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the truth is, the honourable Member is right to ask me the question when he says that the Carballino Town Hall is a very nice council, indeed. And, of course, he's also right when he says he has and needs will and commitment. Willingly, I've already expressed it in public and in private, and now officially. Want everything to keep that free time residence as long as it takes. It's more, all the time it takes depending on the demand that obviously has that residence. I mean, the days will be open for those who have claimed their attention. We're talking, for all the lords, of a residence of free time; a residence of free time in which, since 2009, this Government has invested in it about 1.5 million euros. But, by setting examples, and above all related to money, which fits the most practical, the most transparent, in 2014, this residence has EUR 230,900 linked to its maintenance and its put into operation, which is a figure very similar to what we found in 2009, a figure very similar to that for this same presidency. I suppose if the degree of commitment to the maintenance of residence is tied to money, that means that the current commitment is the same as what was in 2009. You also know very well, as a neighbour of Carballino who is, which is a residence that has a fixed season, which is the summer season, where all kinds of families – numerous or single-parent families – through an order that is already published, an order that governs stays – which you actually know very well – have existed since 1995, that is, it is the same order that is now published as the one published by the previous Government, of which you were part. Obviously, this does not mean that this residence is only open in the months of July, August and September, but we have it open – just like Panxón – exactly every time there is a demand, and a suit that is justified. Out of the summer season, other programs – which I suppose you know very well – are developed, with older people, for example, organized by the board, or even organized by other municipalities or different groups. This, of course, means that we receive applications outside the summer months, and so we open up the unique residence and exclusively depending on the demand you have outside the summer months. So, for example, last year, from January to December, 1,394 users were treated with fruit of the requests that were made. For example, in 2010 there were no users during the months of January and February. In 2011 there were no applications during the months of January, February and March, and in the last year, residence remained open, this last year, in 2014, 210 days. That is, 210 days that took up 10 months -- not all of them -- of the year; that is, there were 10 months in which there was activity in those 210 days. So residence always opens, always, the summer months; and always, always, the months we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u416	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u417	...a sufficient demand. [[Applause]] Mr. Vázquez Fernández's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u418	Counselor, in front of the workers who accompany us right now, I have to tell you that you have to review the data. Since 2009, it has been opened 9 months, 8 months, 4 months. They're closing more and more. I'll make you a proposal. You must recognize what it gives on the nail: the demand. Who's responsible for the lawsuit? Well, the Council and the management of the center. So I'm making a proposal that can be a consensus: stop the headmaster of the center and put someone who strengthens the demand, counsellor. What's not worth saying is that we're going to open the demand. It's been open for 55 years. It was practically always open, until in 2009 you arrived. And since you've arrived in 2009, it turns out you've had problems with residence. What has problems is the political will of the Council that you represent, that with the amount of problems you have they don't even look at there. But to receive the workers and tell them: calm down, that we're going to open all year, that's what they tell them. And for the mayor of Carballino to celebrate a full-fledged commitment to open up all year, yes, they tell him. And for the President of the House of Ourense to say: calm down, that we open all year round, yes, they tell him. And you come here to say something that is, it's logical: let's open the demand. But at whose request? Counsellor, the demand of his counsellor, agreements for social tourism are put in place; conventions for social thermalism; conventions for sporting events; conventions for many things. And if the direction of the center is what it does is to be waiting to see who's calling, we're like this year, which won't open more than 4 or 5 months. Counselor, I make a constructive proposal, and sometimes forgive the tone a little vehemently, but I think we have to think about those families of workers who, working three or four months a year, don't even give them to go to unemployment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u419	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr. Vázquez, thank you. Mr. Vázquez, your intervention is over. Yeah, but you know what's going on? Mr. Vázquez, you have no more words. We'll take it, but with the word of the advisor. Mr. Vázquez. [[Applause]] Mr. Vázquez, after two days here I don't even have the strength to call him in order. Look how good I am. So you have the floor of the Labour and Welfare Councillor to close the debate. You know how long you've got.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u420	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The truth is, I have the opportunity to reflect once again the commitment of the Government of Galician Union, not only to the workers of the leisure residence, but to the workers of the entire Council, as it cannot be otherwise. But, of course, Your Honor, I hope you won't be asking me now, at this moment, as are the circumstances in our community, that you are convinced that you know very well and you know the situation in which all the institutions, councils, and even the Council of Galicia – I say financially – do not want you to ask me to have a residence opened if you have no users; that you have a residence open if you have no requests to keep it open, for example, in January and February. The director of the residence, this director and all that she's had since 1995, and even every thirty years she's been in, she's never been a commercial director. I mean, a headmistress of a center never did as headmistress of a business. We respond to demands, demands, for example, of the Council of King's Horses, demands of anyone who requests attention to give him an answer and, of course, open residence in times, days and months that he needs, and that there is indeed a request. Look, Your Honor, you're asking me to open it, and besides, without users and I'm telling the workers, the workers... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u421	Sorry, counselor, sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u422	...what I have to tell you, what I have to tell the workers and the workers, they know what their circumstances are, of course, they know they're made discontinuous, but what they must know is that this residence in 2009 had a hole of 1.1 million euros in chapter I. 1.1 million euros. Actually, that's... No, sorry, sorry, to work, you have to have users. 1.1 million euros of hole in Chapter I, linked solely and exclusively to this residence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, 1.1 that was part of the 20 that left the two-party government in 2009 in chapter I, bound, of course, to a management that I consider to be wrong in the matter of chapter I. But I repeat again, which is most important to me. We're talking about a free-time residence, even two free-time residences that respond to the vacations of different groups: family vacations, single parents, numerous families, different groups of different municipalities, vacations after all. What this Government says is that while there is demand, there will be open residence. And that's what we're doing, and so... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u423	Mrs. Quintas, you're going to finish the plenary and I'm going to call it in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u424	...that's what we're doing since the Government of Galicia. I'll repeat again. No one, from the Labour Council, has made, as director of any center, a business director. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-25-DSPG103.u425	Thank you, Counselor. The agenda was exhausted, we suspended the session.
