ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u1	Good day again. The session is resumed. Annual general policy debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u2	The session, according to the agreement of the Bureau and the Speaker's Board of Auditors on October 6, 2015, will take place in the following manner. First, I announce the separate grouping or vote of motions for resolutions in accordance with the information received from parliamentary groups. The role of spokesmen from parliamentary groups in presenting and defending all motions for resolutions for a maximum of 20 minutes per parliamentary group. The role of the groups in relation to the proposals of the other groups, for a period of ten minutes per parliamentary group. And the vote on the motions for resolutions. The next is the floor of the Secretary of the House to read the Bureau's agreement on the motions for resolutions and their grouping for votes. You have the floor, secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u3	Communication to the plenary session of the Galician Parliament on the motions for resolutions submitted to the general policy debate of 2015. Agreement for the qualification and admission of motions for resolutions. "The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting of 15 October 2015, after considering the motions for resolutions formalised by parliamentary groups in connection with the 2015 General Policy Debate of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, taking into account Article 141bis of the Galicia Parliament Regulation and the qualifications criteria established by the Bureau of the House on 6 October 2015, after the hearing of the Speakers' Board and after the opening of the deadline for the reformulation of certain proposals, adopted the following agreement: Motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, document 42791; 40 motions for resolutions tabled. All motions for resolutions are allowed to be processed, after recasting motion for resolution No 21, document No. 42811. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, document No 42793; 40 motions for resolutions tabled. All motions for resolutions made after the reformulation of motions for resolutions Nos 18 and 19, document No 42808, are allowed. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, document No 42792; 40 motions for resolutions tabled. All motions for resolutions submitted are allowed to proceed after recasting motion for resolution No 23, document No. 42812. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document No. 42794; 40 motions for resolutions tabled. All motions for resolutions tabled shall be accepted after the reformulation of motions for resolutions Nos 4, 7, 9 and 24, document No 42806. Motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, document No. 42795; 40 motions for resolutions tabled. All motions for resolutions submitted shall be accepted, after recasting motion for resolution number 20, document number 42805." Agreement on proposed transactions and requests for separate voting of motions for resolutions. "The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 16 October 2015, after considering the proposed transactions and requests for separate voting of motions for resolutions, having regard to the criteria referred to above, adopted the following agreement. Take note of the proposed transactions and of the following separate requests for votes. Negotiated motions for resolutions, registered document 42867, on proposals No. 19 of the Joint Parliamentary Group and No. 27 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. Document registered 42871 on proposal No. 20 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Request for and voting separately from the motions for resolutions. The compromise proposals imply the collapse of the motions for resolutions on which they are being dealt, so they will not be put to the vote. The vote shall be put to the vote on the resolution rather than on the explanatory part of the motions for resolutions. Proposals for resolutions negotiated. Among the motions for resolutions No. 19, of the Joint Group and 27, of the Galician People's Group: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to encourage and coordinate the writing by the Greek dairy sector, and according to its demands and proposals, of a strategic plan for the future for the Greek dairy sector, to strengthen and ensure the leading position of the Greek dairy sector in Spain and to enable it to deal with the current crisis in a liberalized market. As well as supporting the same with the development of a specific dairy planning within the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, in addition to measures to assist the short-term sector in the face of the difficult situation they are suffering. And by formulating complementary planning within it in the medium and long term, focused on responding to the structural situations of our dairy sector. As a matter of fact, the lines to support differentiated quality will be promoted within this plan, also promoting progress in achieving greater added value for milk, by improving the transformation and marketing of milk based on the development of new products, and by integrating cooperatives into the transformer and marketer framework." On the basis of motion for a resolution No. 20 of the People's Group of Galicia with the Joint Group: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to intensify the promotion of municipal associationism and the rationalization of the territorial structure of Galicia; completing the process of dialogue with the Vigo Council and 13 other municipalities that integrate the Vigo Metropolitan Area; and listening to all political groups that integrate the respective municipal corporations, in order to consent to the changes that are made in Law 4/2012 of 12 April, and to start the metropolitan area in 2016." Debate on the motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u4	All parliamentary groups have the agreement which the Secretary has just read out. In any case, a document will also be sent with the votes, which will take place in an orderly manner so that everyone is clearly aware of what will be voted on. We then begin with the debate on the motions for resolutions, with the turn of the parliamentary groups for the global presentation and defense of the motions for resolutions. For the Mixed Group, Mrs Iglesias and Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u5	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President. I hope that the proposals of the Joint Group, from 1 to 20 – which are the proposals that have been drawn up by this honourable Member, all of them in a positive way – will be taken into account by this House. But above all, I hope that, if I do so, they will be fulfilled in their entirety and they will not remain on wet paper. I'm going to start with proposal number one, which deals with what concerns citizens most according to CIS: improving public employment policies, improving the labour market and working class rights. It is urgent a great social pact for the improvement of the labour market, whose current state is the result of the brutal reform that led to the party ruling us in 2012. A labour reform that encourages part-time work; a type of contract that generates labour poverty, child malnutrition and deep social gaps. No job – better said, no quality and decent job – there is no recovery possible. But for that we have to recognize that austerity has not improved people's lives, and look for alternatives to make policies for people and not for the so-called markets, which are nothing more than the financial system. Proposal No 2 – which is also very important for this honourable Member – concerns corruption. Given the multiple cases of corruption in the parties and institutions, and the social alarm and mistrust that this generates in citizenship towards them, which occupies the second place of matters that concern the citizens most, I think it is vital that this Parliament adopts. I'll read it: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to develop legislation that protects, embraces, supports and recognizes people who denounce and/or bear witness to political corruption processes so that their privacy is protected, if they are guaranteed free legal assistance and labor stability, protecting them from harassment and despising at work." The incident with Ana Garrido, Gürtel's complainant, and Fernando Urruticoechea, the complainant of many cases of corruption in many municipalities where he acted as an intervener, placed us in a context in which it is essential to legislate about the figure of the witness or complainant of corruption. Ana Garrido, six years after she had denounced Gürtel, left 5,000 euros in litigation, had to put on sale properties and suffered harassment, contempt and loss of wages; she continued to suffer the problems that started for her after her complaint and remain without being recognized her merits; while they were awarded medallits to virgins of Catholics. Urruticoechea has two disciplinary records on her back and a claim to honor brought by Arbonasa, a company involved in corruption. In Galicia we also have the case of Mr. Pérez Cribeiro, to whom Judge Lara, teacher of Pokémon, had to testify protected witness to his unrelenting pressure situation. In a democratic system, it is essential to protect this figure legally and at work, denouncing political corruption, in order to make it easier for any citizen to exercise the right and the duty to denounce political corruption in a democratic system. Today, these citizens are in a state of deprotection, and even their rights are violated. The third proposal has to do with increasing the budgets of education, health and dependence; that is, social policies, as a continuation of this other model that covers neoliberal policies that consider spending what is investment in social foundations. You will approve proposals 4, 5 and 6 if you really want, have political will and social and ideological sensitivity in the fight against gender violence. They are courageous and promote the promotion and recognition of the legal figure of feminicide in legislation, as set out in proposal number 6. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to take steps – and to move on to politics and legislation – in a real struggle against this global terrorism: male terrorism. And in that direction, in the direction of women's rights to achieve real equality in all social spheres and from the cradle, I present proposal 4: which penalise the macho declarations of public office; 5: increase maternity permits and which are untransferable; and 7: real implementation of a co-educational system. In line with the resolution adopted unanimously in the previous debate on the state of the nation, for which this Parliament condemns frankism and its crimes, and also the proposal adopted in 2001 in the Spanish Parliament with the votes of the People's Party, in which the Government was urged to rehabilitate the anti-Francist guerrillas, two, eight and nine should be adopted. 9 tries to give recognition to the fighters for democracy, the women and the men of Galicia who persevered in their struggle against the coup d'état franchise until the 1960s. The Welsh guerrilla is one of Spain's most important, and I would also say that of the world. It was part and art of an anti-fascist and anti-Francist movement in a European context, waiting for aid from the allied states in the Second World War in the recovery of the loss of democratic rights that brought about the triumph of the rebel military; it helps that never happened when admitted to the Franco-Francist Government in the anti-communist strategy of the Cold War, which left these fighters in disrepair and forgetfulness. It's time to make justice, gentlemen, with makeup, with guerilla. The Berlin Wall has fallen, at least, although others are now rising. They personalize these guerrillas and guerrillas, ultimately, the first attempt to fight for the democratic recovery that arrived in this country after the coup d'état triumph. Resolution No. 8 aims to correct one of the multiple instances of a forgotten transition, consolidating the Amnesty Law, which is incompatible with international law, adopted on 10 October 1997 with the votes of the parliamentary left in the Congress of Deputies, and which in its Article 2f maintains as included in the amnesty the crimes committed by law enforcement agents and officials against the rights of persons. Thus, any crime or violation of human rights occurred in Spain before December 15, 1976. Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 call for the consideration of political subjects with rights of some of the social groups who do not vote, but who are part of our society and our lives: the Galician children, the terminal sick and the victims of the tours and circuses. Proposal No. 12 on the reform of the electoral law. 13th on the disappearance of the Advisory Council. The 14th of the recruitment lists; they propose an improvement in democratic regeneration and transparency. If it were to be approved, it would improve the note reached by this Parliament, in transparency in the adjudication of public works, by the Spanish International Transparency organization. And I remind you that it is a zero, lords; a zero potato, which would say José Mari Aznar, as far as he ever is, above all lately. I do not accept as valid the argument, for the maintenance of the Board of Auditors, of the professional and political category of members, their experience as statemen. In addition, and taking into account the non-binding condition of the Council's dictates, which gives it a character of inoperability, make these individuals worthy of the superprivileged economic data; status the account of public money, of the money of all, when the new talents do not find opportunities for the future and overcome the obligation to leave. Proposals 15 and 16 are concerned about education, especially in rural areas, and also about the drift that relegates the subjects of humanity and art, which are making society more uncultivated and specialized from early age, to be useful to commercial society; that is, to comply with article 27.2 of the Constitution: to educate to achieve the full development of human personality. To form robots useful to society, with smarter mobile phones than consumer users, we already have what's going on. Last summer Galliza suffered one of the worst fire strikes, destroying mountains and villages, having reached the fire to the foot of the houses. In that direction goes to proposal 17. As a matter of fact, we saw one of the biggest mobilisations in the dairy sector. Proposal 19, which is negotiated with the People's Party. So I'm not going to develop it right now because it's traded. And the proposal for an improved network that favours rural mobility, which is proposal number 18. And I have nothing but to say to thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u6	Good morning to all and to all. The proposals I put forward, many of them cost zero; that is, it's a question of the political concept of society and the role that must be taken forward by the Greek Government to defend the interests of the majority of society, as they have come to announce that it is their interest in this last year of legislation. The first proposal, number 21, refers to the regeneration and recovery of rivers; it calls for a negative report on the extension of the grant of Ence-Elnosa. I must begin by saying that all the resolutions put forward by me were rejected by the People's Party. The 22nd proposal, which could not be otherwise, speaks of the rescue of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, based on the multiple structural and functional deficiencies, and therefore on the failure of the concessionary company to comply with its obligations. 23 talks about changing Galician Urban Waste Management Plan in agreement with all political groups, in agreement with the municipalities, with eco-logical associations and with citizenship, and was also rejected. Also the recovery of marine resources, based on the sanitation and protection of our rivers, which they do not accept either. Proposals 25 and 26 are aimed at the German Government's sense of employer and trade unions in order to conquer some agreements in the Italian field, especially in order to eliminate this dependence on minimum state agreements, and also to eliminate the existence of workers and workers in Greece who do not have a reference agreement and therefore refuse to the minimums established by the Staff Regulations of Workers. In these proposals 25 and 26 we are also talking about moving forward, in this negotiation between employers and trade unions, at the best of the Greek salaries to reach the state average. And something very important, rejected again by the People's Party -- it's not the first time that he refuses it -- to walk and advance in wage and opportunity equalization in the world of work between men and women. Something the People's Party will have against women when it insists on fighting and supporting wage equality between men and women. I'd like you to explain that to me. Proposal 27, designed to design an industrial plan that supports the productive sectors, which is based on R & D+i and territorial cohesion, has also been rejected, I do not understand why. Just as the modification of forest policy was rejected, based on prevention and rational exploitation, to end the fragmentation of the forest fires and fight system, ending the existing precariousness in the system and establishing and recovering the unique organizational dependence of the Galician administration. It also denies – and what the President here has just promised us, at Wednesday's session, his interest in supporting the majority of society, especially the Greeks and the Greeks who are in the worst situation – the People's Party refuses to establish a universal social wage to ensure that no home is left without satisfying its basic human needs. It also refuses to modify the energy policy, to guarantee energy to all households. So I don't know where that social bet is. Proposal 31 refuses to guarantee a decent home for all families. Some explanation I guess you'll have. Proposal 32, which has also been rejected, seeks to ensure that in the 2016 budgets the protection of women victims of gender violence, facilitating their economic independence with the "immediate and preventive" concession; that is, before they have to check anything, immediately. The first thing is that this woman can leave the house, that that woman has a salary, and then investigate what she wants! But you have to get that woman out and you have to give her some security. We therefore claimed housing and the wages of freedom for all women victims of gender-based violence and that that amount could never be less than the minimum annual inter-professional wage; and also reviewed according to children and children, including children born within 300 days of the application. Also proposal 33. The People's Party obviously refuses to return to the workers and public workers what stole from them. And I say it's a robbery because it was a unilateral breach of the single collective agreement, and the agreement is law. So when someone unilaterally violates a law that is in force, it's obviously stealing, it's committing an illegal act. Proposal 34 was an initiative aimed at ensuring the normal and official use of the Greek language; enhancing the use of the Greek language in all areas of cultural, public and information life, providing the means necessary for the Greek to be the language of the vehicle. He refused, too. We were counting on this initiative to bring this debate on language and consensus to all social sectors, because we believe that, in addition to universities, researchers or teachers, there is another part of society such as ANPA, youth associations, media, technological sectors, trade unions or employers, even judges, who have a very important role in this way of putting Welsh in the place that corresponds to it as Galicia's own language. Proposal 35, which urged the Union to eradicate this continued use of possible part-time contracts which so prejudge the public system. As well as 36, which intended to integrate into the autonomic public sector the foundations of health-related research. Proposal 37 sought the call of an OPE to cover all these depreciated squares, which are vacant, so as to guarantee the quality of public services and their universality. Proposal 38 simply said that Parliament should be informed, it should agree and therefore deal with any kind of concert with private companies or public-private partnership contracts. Proposal 39, which was also rejected, urged the Government of Greece, on the basis of the interest in defending the interests of the majority of society, on the basis of that commitment that the president of the Union was formed the other day, urged the State to repeal all that legislation which came to usurp rights conquered by the majority of society. None of the rights usurped by state laws that are named on the initiative was a gift from anyone, they were a conquest that I have subjected to a lot of struggle, which I have subjected to a lot of repression for many people, and which has come to suppose – even – the death of many Greeks and Greeks fighting for freedom and social justice. Proposal No. 40, which was also rejected, urged the Government to amend fiscal policy. I announced the president, at the Wednesday session, a downgrade from the IRPF. I'm totally at odds with the downside of the IRPF. Direct taxes have to go according to each person's income, and therefore pay more than he has, pay more than he wants and pay less than he earns, there are people who don't pay anything. That is the only way to guarantee the existence of free, universal public services that reach all citizenship, and not what the People's Party wants, which is to establish a system of charity where it seems that there is a need to help the poor, as if guilt were theirs and not their own system. We therefore call for the progressive increase of direct taxes and the reduction of indirect taxes, those that we all pay – but equally our income –. And, fundamentally, to go down, to urge the Government of the State to lower the VAT from the products necessary for child care, fresh products or foods, and also the cultural VAT, because I believe that culture is the food of the intellect that will guarantee the future of future generations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u8	I'm done, President, thank you very much. As for the transaction, I just think it's a vote of confidence, to see if it's true that we can eliminate the Members on the basis of having strong councils that act together. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u9	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u10	Good morning, gentlemen. Let me begin this speech today with a popular story about three brothers. And he says, "There were three brothers who decided to go out into the world to make a living, and none of them knew how to speak the Spanish, which brought them very hollow, because he had told them a neighbor – who had gone through many lands – that in order not to starve, it was necessary to know how to speak Spanish. When they were talking about what they were supposed to do, some Spanish arrived and started to latricate very high, so they were in the morning to approach them and listen to them to learn. He was first the oldest and heard them say: we. The man took good care of himself and came back very happy where his brothers and said, "I can speak Spanish, I hear them tell us." In view of the early and well that your brother had learned, it was also there the second that came when one of the Spanish said right now, and running back where his boasting that he had also learned the Spanish; "I know how to say right now," said all arrogantly. The little one, to be no less, was also at the foot of the foreigners, hearing them say it's all right, which has already been cared for as well as their brothers. As they knew how to speak the Spanish they decided to run out of a world willing to make themselves rich. But when they were already on the land of Castile, they met on their way one day with a dead man and, as they were naturally good, they felt sorry for him and took him to carve him out of the road. At this moment the civilian guards arrived and asked them, "Who killed this man? "We," replied the oldest of the brothers, "to light up their knowledge of Spanish. - When did they kill him? — they asked the civilian guards again, — right now — I said the second one not to stay behind. "So, you're a prisoner," the guards said. "All right," said the little boy, "I'm glad to see the good that was understood with those people. Then the civilians arrested them and took them to prison, where they paid with their lives the adoration of forgetting their own language by the wing." Ladies and gentlemen, this popular tale, rescued to our memory by Ben-Cho-Sey, is a metaphor not only for the policies that the Greek Government has practiced in relation to our language, but also a metaphor for the conception of Galicia and the behaviour of the Government of Feijóo along these two legislatures. This submissive and serene conception, renegade of itself, led us to suffer more seriously the consequences of the crisis, to which the structural problems that Galicia had already suffered and which continue to suffer were exacerbated. And so the Greeks and the Greeks suffered a black sexnione of cuts, of lies, of increasing inequalities, also in poverty, Mr. Feijóo; a black sexnione where Galicia saw the boxes being cursed, as youth again emigrated in mass or as a very important part of our business fabric was dismantled or sold. The Government of Feijóo has the sad merit of being a government that has misused Galicia and betrayed our interests as a people, starting with what unites us most as Greeks and Greeks, which is our language. I don't think we can imagine a greater outrage in this country. But the Government, far from recognizing reality, comes here systematically boasting of its achievements and successes, the successes of Feijóo that lead to Galicia being smaller and smaller, not in territory, but rather in population, in employment, in wealth, in cultural life. Indeed, the PP and Feijó became a minifundist government, playing an antisocial policy, with no country perspective or hope for the future. At any rate, Nuñez Feijó recognized his capacity for transvestism and political escapism. In these six years he has never admitted a mistake, he has always been profiled at the problems of the country, and he has only been concerned about how to circumvent his responsibilities, always looking for those who blame him. Otherwise, we've done three key issues that have focused much of the debate over the past few months, such as the Vigo hospital, the dairy sector or the Galician situation in the energy landscape. Vigo's hospital is a symbol of Feijóo's social policy; Vigo's hospital is a great fiasco and is Feijó's second big lie in health matters. The first lie was to the people of Lugo: he promised them hemodynamics 24 hours, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine, and they're still waiting. Vigo's hospital is a great lie, a multi-millionaire hat and an poisoned inheritance that mortgages health for 30 years and turns into a business the right to health. But we have to tell Mr. Feijóo – although not very interested in the debate – that Vigo's hospital does not end with the forced cessation of Rocío Mosquera: the advisor had responsibility for an insecure and disastrous feared transfer, but all the scandal surrounding the Cunquero Álvaro has a larger dimension, and the Feijóo himself must face up to the fiasco of his star project for Greek health. We, like many Vigo people and this region, want to know why, if this hospital by public road costs 450 million euros, because of its privatization we are going to pay 1.4 billion; we want to know if it's really legal the formula that was used for the recruitment; we want to know why Sergas allowed the cuts that were signed in that contract – shorts how to reduce to 850 to 1.450 beds planned – why the chirophanes were reduced, why more than half of the beds provided for emergency; why the patient hotel, equipment, laboratory, parking lots were eliminated. All these cuts were made if no kind of cuts soon on the canon that will have to pay the company. Clearly, it's a very important gift for the dealership, which spoils construction, as long as we keep paying as if all these things had been done. As already seen in the transfer, these cuts and low constructive quality endanger the safety of patients and workers, and they are already causing serious structural problems. But ladies and gentlemen, the scandals do not end here because – we are wondering – if the contract established that the financial risk was of the company, why at the end this hospital, in a very relevant part, will be covered with credit from the European Investment Bank – which does not lend to private companies – or with resources from the ICO or FROB? That is, most of the resources allocated to this hospital at the end come from public funds, not private funds. Why were we told there was no money to build a public hospital and now it turns out that there is public money to fund a privatized hospital? This is really a real scandal. And we believe that the great manager of the Vigo hospital scam is Mr. Feijóo, who must face it. That is why we ask, in these motions for resolutions, three very clear things: first, Parliamentary Research Committee, transparency and truth – why do we refuse an investigative commission? – we also want to know, and that they will be invented, all the deficiencies that the hospital currently has, and guarantees that they will be covered by the company, and not with public resources; and finally, we find it important that a privatization process which has serious consequences for health and because we defend, from the BNG, that Vigo's public health cannot be hijacked by two companies. [[Applause]] Another issue that for us is key to the future of Galicia is the dairy sector, where clearly the Government of Beijóo has made the release of functions. Galicia is the state's main milk producer, but we are missing in the dairy debate – as if not to say amen everything that the ministry says. The German Government refused to lead a policy that had defended the interests of the Germans and the Germans. A sector that is suffering from a long crisis, a prolonged crisis. It had been known for a long time that quotas would disappear and, at this time, what did the Government of Greece do to help the dairy sector? For what did it do was undo the milk table, I also untie the milk observatory, I lay down the approved contracts of the Greek, I lay down the law of the land bank. Finally, the German Government did nothing to help the sector, the only thing it did was undo. And so we got to a situation with hundreds and hundreds of gangsters and gangsters from this country who, for months, had to work selling losses, put people in a limited position and then only the democratic and legitimate resource of taking the streets and protesting. But at that moment, what was the concern of the German Government?, what was the concern of Feijóo? Of course, not to listen to what they were asking for or to stand on the side of the gorges and the gorges; the concern of Feijóo and the PP was to divide the sector and they were forced to submit to what the Government of Madrid said. Consequences of this policy: a Madrid agreement of 23 September – which is a genuine fiasco – where all commitments were made to the livestock sector and an order of help from the ministry, which is a new outrage from Spain to Galicia, to be entitled to these €300 aid, must be charged to the Greek and Galician farmers at less than 24.5 – in Andalusia, 35.1–. A real discrimination against the scandal that the Union justifies this measure. Today we call for two fundamental questions: first, fair remuneration for milk to cover the costs of production, and to end with discrimination and shame of that real decree which discriminates against our Greek holdings; and, also, to redirect the attitude of the Greek Government in relation to milk in order to deal with decisions concerning both the sector in Galicia and the state. It is necessary to establish a committee to follow up the agreements which not only follow up but also proposals that benefit our dairy sector. And finally, the last of the three pillars that show the face that comes out of government submission Feijóo is all that has to do with energy policy. We have talked a lot about the serious mistakes that have been made in this matter, about responsibility for putting down a contest that was legal, a transparent contest, a contest that would allow, for the first time, the Greeks and the Greeks to participate in the benefits of wind production, but today we also want to talk about the absurdity that the Spanish State is penalizing self-consumption, which is imposing a sun tax; a sun tax which, all must be said, is understood only by a government serving the interests of the electricians. But we're called a lot of attention that in this sun tax, in the decree that regulates it, the Balearics and the Canary Islands are excluded, and it's done because self-consumption reduces system costs and these areas have a lot of geographic dispersion. I want it to be very clear: we defend the elimination of this tax, the elimination of these pitfalls and penalties, but they call us very much attention that they weren't even able to achieve that same exceptionality for Galicia, because we have some conditions as to the geographical dispersion very similar to the Canary Islands or the Balearics. I don't know if they weren't aware of what was going on, or just once again, they don't care at all about the consequences of what's going on in this country. We must also say, speaking of the energy from BNG, that we defend a model change, a change in which we believe that we have to change the excessive energy consumption we have right now, but also a change in what we consider essential: to curb the energy policy of Galicia. That's why we're bringing back the debate on a Welsh electric tariff. We already know that the only thing that worries PP is to continue to add to the benefits of electricity, but the BNG is that we benefit from the capacity to produce electricity, even if that means – and it costs you – to reduce benefits to Fenosa or Endesa. And we want to say that defending this has nothing to do with the autarchy, as the spokesperson for the People's Group has suggested, today is absent in this debate too; it has to do with social justice and the right to benefit from Galicia's resources. As they would say in Portugal: it is not autarchy, it is democracy, ladies and gentlemen, something that seems to us to be very important right now. Galicia has relevant challenges for its future and we cannot afford to lose our productive sectors, our ability to produce and generate jobs in this area. Of course, the dairy, livestock, fishing or naval sector have specific problems, but they also have common problems: historical discrimination that condemns us not to produce or that our wealth does not result in collective development. A design that we don't share from BNG, and that's why we defend tools, decision-making ability to face the challenges that Galicia has ahead of us. We defend future measures that allow us to decide about our ports, about fishing quotas, to defend our shellfish, also defend those who have worked hard and now are denied the right to receive a pension for which they paid in Norway; or our returned emigrants, to whom the government of the state continues to mistreat and wait for the PP Government to receive something more than beautiful words or lies. They are, for us, basic questions if we want to have a future and not remain a wane Galician. We believe that the employment plan that Galicia needs is not about continuing to subsidize precarious public money; the employment plan that Galicia needs is about producing, by diversifying our economy, by R & D+i – of course, something that you, erratically, have been systematically cutting – and in our motions for resolutions we propose a law to support science and research, which includes the commitment to invest 3% of gross domestic product in R & D+i in the following eight years. In this design of the future we also bet on strong support for the naval sector, an exhausted sector, tired of lies and false promises that never materialize. That is why we propose in our proposals: a modernization plan that guarantees the incorporation into the civil construction of railway yards in the Ferrol River, a floating saying, an integral complex of the naval in the Ferrol River, or – which Mr Feijóo has promised so many times – and now has forgotten the ship repair centre. Ladies and gentlemen, since the BNG we cannot accept a social and economic model that reduces Galicia to a low-cost country, a low-wage country, with a growing wage gap between women and men, with a trained and highly trained youth who is condemned to emigrate. By the way, immigration: a serious problem that has serious consequences for Galicia, and that we hope the PP spokesperson does not make the ridicule of Mr. Feijóo to deny his existence and his impact in our country today. [[Applause]] We have made it clear, since the BNG, that the crisis was very deep, that in Galicia it has worsened old problems, and that many families are still in crisis, that the country is still in crisis, so we bet on a new frame where Galicia has something to say for itself. The recipe for PP is to do nothing, obey submissively, but we believe and defend that Galicia's hope lies in breaking up with centralism and submission. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a decision-making capacity to have a Greek public bank, to have a financing model that gives us full capacity, to have a fair taxation and not regressive proposals like those that brought to this debate Mr Feijóo. We want to defend education, to recover the lost teacher, to bet on inclusive education and free education; to defend housing, to defend people who are defeated. We want them to be rescued for public management privatized services. We want to really fight against corruption, against poverty, to defend the social and labor rights of all workers; to heal the rivers, to prevent Ence from continuing to mortgage the future of Pontevedra; or also to respond to the call of victims of Angrois, to ask for an investigation commission because justice can only be built from the truth. Proposals to give some sense to the greatest udder to the waste of the PP, that City of Culture, shipwrecked and failed, and in which we say that at least one of the buildings houses a Galese pinacoteca where to see the works of our plastic artists. And finished, ladies and gentlemen, appointing four women: Maria Isabel, Beatriz, Divine and Silvina; they are named because silence makes us complicit in masculine violence, a violence that between 2007 and 2015 caused more than one million women throughout the Spanish state to file a complaint for gender-based violence; in this same period, 750 women were murdered. We know words are not neutral, they have political, social and cultural implications. So we propose again a change, so that the word feminicide may be incorporated into our legal corpus, a new legal, linguistic and legal category that must be the basis for both in Galicia and in the state to develop a status of the victims of feminicide that covers the current problems. We, ladies and gentlemen, recognize the steps taken in this matter, but we are not afraid to mark the evasive ones, nor to name things by name. To incorporate the term feminicide is to bet on a legal corpus that is more effective in guaranteeing a fundamental human right: the right of all women to live without violence and equality, the right to be socially equal, humanly different and totally free. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way we synthesize forty proposals with which BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u12	...–remato–... offers an alternative – that does not alter – to a government in decline and decadence, an alternative that has as its focus the union in the defence of Galicia's interests, union against a decadent Government, union in defense of freedom and democracy, the union of Greeks and Greeks who want dignity because they feel part of a people who do not accept the suitcase as a future or irrelevance as a destination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galeg, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u14	Good morning to all of you. An example worthy of the presence and interest of the President of the House in this important debate. In spite of that, the Left Gaga Alternative will do what it has to do, and the first thing we want to tell the absent president is that, as in The Great Gatsby, his party ends, Mr. President. As at O grande Gatsby’s party, some authors – Professor Monereo, for example – call it “trama”, also end. And I'm going to define what this author understands by plot: he understands by plot this unique mechanism that organizes a matrix of power between financial monopolistic capitalism, media powers and a corrupt and capital-dependent bipartisan caste. This is what your Government represents so well. That's what we say, that the Government, the system, is a form of corruption; that's what we say, that, exactly, they send in the Government of the Council of Galicia those who do not submit to the elections, they send the freshmen – Mr. Feijo's friends – they send the banisters, they send the José Luís Méndez, the gays; they send those who, without presenting themselves to the elections, are making relevant decisions against the Greek people. And in politics we have to ask ourselves who the enemy is; we can say here that the enemy is the Government of this country, but they are also the economic powers that Mr. Feijóo has of ally. And we also have to say that we hear a speech with our eyes placed in another country, and we, the Left Gaga Alternative, are going to talk here about the country of the real people, those people of whom Alberto Núñez Feijóo didn't talk about, and we're also going to make forty proposals that help to improve the dramatic situation that our people live in. Like, for example, that woman named Marta, a worker affected by the ERE of Vodafone; like, for example, that companion, Eugenio Leira – one of the images that will remain with us from this legislation – when you threw out people who claimed a drug to avoid death with hepatitis C; also like Manuel, a fireman who suffers the consequences of privatization of emergency services; or like, for example, Carlos, who has just been killed for losing his home; or, for example, Ana, that woman who has nothing to take to her mouth, who is unemployed and has no kind of social coverage. Our proposals have to do with what the street claims, which is bread, work and roof. And of course it is possible to change policies if they had the decency to approve something that we propose from the Alternative Left Galeg. And indeed, it is Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo's farewell. We don't really care if you go to Madrid or to Berlin, the only thing we're interested in is that it's the end of a political cycle, that tsunami that opened the doors at a new time – the 24M – will also take a step, after this debate, to a new reality in our country. It'll be the end of your party, it'll be your farewell. And they've been rocking us too, because you've been ruling for 80 months in our country. And it is up to us to make a balance by saying that we find ourselves a much poorer country, much more unequal, much more indebted, and much more precarious; and we find ourselves with a government without ideas – in politics it is vital to have ideas to fix the problems – and, after listening to the President of Galicia's board, we can conclude that this Government is exhausted, that it has no ideas, that it had to go to the ZP wardrobe to put two measures on the table, which are not only useful to fix Galicia's problems, but are against the will of the people. Those two measures that were, on the one hand, the so-called "drink check" – the reason 100 euros a month for mothers and parents – and another irresponsible measure as it is to lower taxes in our country. The Gaga de Left Alternative listens to people who know about these things, and we collect in our proposals what has just indicated, once again, the Gestha union, which clearly says that the German Government is acting with genuine irresponsibility, which tells us that the Government of Greece what it has to do is to create childish schools, is to create residences for older people; what you don't have to do is just what you are doing. But we would also like to know – that we are clear when the spokesperson of the People's Party intervenes – as will be done after these two IRPF checkpoints, what public services will be cut off? They don't deceive the population: when they drop two points in the IRPF they have to tell the Greeks and the Greeks what services they're going to cut, or they have to tell the Greeks and the Greeks if they're going to increase their public debt in this country. The absent president is the most expensive president in the history of our country, the president of the 10,000 million euros. Stop lying once more about public debt. When you arrived – official data – 3,954 million euros; 2015, 10,210 and rising. I'm not a Solvent Government, I'm a Deceiver Government, and I'm paying attention to the interests of our people. And we would also have to say something else, stop fooling people, because their premises are false. The European Commission has just told the People's Party that the next Government has to cut 10 billion euros. That, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will also come true in our country, we will also have to adjust our budgets to that reality. But they also have another false premise, and they have the canteen — Mr. Puy, absent, and Mr. President of the Union, absent — that they will increase, by the cost ceiling, 400 million targeted at social spending. They lie, they lie, they lie. As we have already told them, they can only increase it by 1.5%, and the rest – Montoro Doctrine; you, fervorous defenders – must be derived from paying public debt; therefore, they stop lying. And they also stop lying with that canteen that 8 out of 10 euros are spent socially; they lie, lie, and lie. 44% of the budget cut since they rule – oh, chance! – is just about social, nothing more and nothing less. In health care, they cut 21%, 373.9 million euros; in education, 26%, 356.2 million euros; in job promotion – which concerns both the former absent advisor, the pagan advisor –, nothing more and nothing less than 51%; and in housing exactly cut 75%, 166.6 million euros. So it's not credible that they're going to turn 8 out of 10 euros to social spending. And, as Goebbels said – and my fellow Beers said – as much as they repeat a lie a thousand times it will not become reality. And talking about the last one, about housing, because we're going to talk about housing. Look, they had announcements, they had plans – RehaVita Plan, Reconduce Plan – 500 homes that would offer the Greeks and Greeks with needs; and we already have the balance: lamentable, la-men-ta-ble! But we also have agreements with lawyers' schools, a total failure. And we also have, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, registered plaintiffs from the dwellings of the Sareb scam, 13,615 people. Nothing at all, you know nothing about it. And we also have that you, after you won the election the damn tides on August 28 this year – they've been ruling for seven years – realized that you had to make a social rent bonus. Here, the advisor issues a new order. Counsellor, that order is already born dead, the requirements that you incorporate into that rule are born dead; it will be a more failed exercise. First, we'd like to know what the budget provision is, because it says the rule that these people will be able to help in the social rent up to the credit they have. We really look, and there's no credit for any kind of thing. But secondly, Counsellor, the conditions that you impose on that standard are impossible for people who are in social exclusion; those people who will be asked to receive social rent from them are because they don't have to feed their children. This is the real country, which Montepío's mist doesn't stop him from seeing. So I anticipate that this rule will be a failed rule. They therefore vote on motion for resolution No. 5 of the Alternative Glaga de Left, practice real housing policy, guarantee housing as a fundamental right, do the favor. Or, if not, explain to us later what are the reasons they prevent, with such a strong social commitment, that they vote in favour of it. But, look, there is an insistence on this government – which I think is already failed too; they dare not say so either, but I think they won that battle against – in trying to tell us that Galicia is far better than the state; even Mr. Puy went to this reality the other day. And we say here with data that this is false, that this is the disaster of their management and that not only are we not going better than the state but Galicia is going far worse than the state averages. And you have to explain here in this House, in the general policy debate, what are the reasons that motivate us to go so bad. And I'll give you data. Mr. Puy was telling a half-hearted truth, he said: Galicia grows to 1.8%. Yes, yes, Mr. Puy, it's true. But what Mr. Puy didn't say is that the state is actually growing to 3.8%. And the question that Alternative Left Galicia makes is: Mr. Puy, Mr. President absent, why the negative differential of economic growth in our country? What are they doing wrong in this country if, in your opinion, it's the cream of the cream; it's the one that razes, are the example of the People's Party? No, Mr. Puy – as soon as he comes – explain to us why the negative differential is for Galician Union. Why are we going so much worse than the state media? But also explain to us, for example, why we are winners in the destruction of jobs and jobs. Since 2009, Galicia has destroyed at a rate of 15.6%, the state, at 9.4%; in industrial employment, Galicia, at 27.5%; the state, at 16.1%. What are the reasons why we go at a higher rate of job destruction than the rest of the average? Why? What do we do wrong? We don't compare ourselves to Euskadi, we compare ourselves to the data published by the ministries that are reborn by people of the People's Party. What are they doing wrong? This is what they had to talk about here. Tell us this data. But, look, unemployed people, 2009-2015. The growth of unemployed people since they rule in half-Greek is 71%, on the average of the state, 31%; we continue with data -- they don't play with data from EPA -- 252,500 people. And don't keep lying about memberships of Social Security because we have 97,000 less people in Social Security than since you arrived. And he also spoke the president of long-term unemployed. Vote for the motion for a resolution by the Alternative Gaga de Left to speak seriously. We have the data of the long-term unemployed. Do you know exactly what these unemployed people have grown up, those people, since they rule? 500%. When they arrived, there were 22100 in Galicia, today we have 111,900; they are people of flesh and bone; they are human beings; I don't know if they know, they have the right to life, they live, they are real and they were absent in Mr. Feijóo's speech. Or, for example, attend to the ESC, which is curious, a body that pays the Greeks and the Greeks. Well, here's no mention. The ESC, which is a revolutionary body, says in its report that there are 177,000 people who have no social protection. Well, listen to what the ESC says, which is not an organism that is repelled by the evil alternate gaga de left. They vote for our motions for resolutions if they want to improve the lives of our people. But, look, let's talk about salaries – public data too – regrettable! 77,000 people in this country called Galicia live with 410 euros gross a month and 145,000 people hired to join a job and who are poor, who have to go to Caritas to feed their sons and daughters. This is the country you don't see – I insist – from Montepío. Or, for example, wage differences. Do you know how much is the loss of purchasing power of the first Dec, that is, those people who earn 410 euros gross a month? You know how long it's been? Because the acquisition loss was 25%. Do you know how much it was in the last decade, the ones that exceed 4,500 euros? What was the acquisition loss? 1 percent. This is the social model of the People's Party. They vote on the motion for a resolution which has been adopted by Alternative Galega on wages. And there are two questions: the strategic sectors of this country, the naval sector. Mr President-in-Office, having the shame of saying here that we were almost in an optimal situation would require your immediate correction. What they have to explain in this House is why they lied, lied, lied to and lied to the Galicians and, in particular, to the county of Ferrolterra, because they know that we have no floating dam, no workload or industrial plan; and they don't even have the decency to receive the company committees from that county. What about Alcoa? They vote for our initiatives, for the naval sector and for Alcoa. The Alcoa workers – 600 workers, and Mr. Black, who defended them so much – are waiting to see what you are pushing here in this House on the motions for resolutions. And we're going to talk about dependency – oh, the damn Bipartite! – public report. Of course, indeed, it increases from 24% to 41%. Look, the fake data from the former payment advisor: because in 2014 you created exactly 46 squares, and created 306 – public data – in day centers; and we have pending, on the waiting list, 27,220 Welsh and Welsh. Stop taking our hair, get to work and vote on motion for resolution 23 of the Alternative Left-Galga. Actually, health care. The portrait of the evil doing of his government is exactly the health management. There is a transfer of EUR 1,624 from public resources to private health. Vote for AGE's initiative, rescue Vigo's hospital, counsellor, do something decently, avoid the biggest evil. Why? Because it's a hospital without a central lab, disabled, poorly designed, a hospital without sterilization. But we also have a council – as you will know – that everything has absolutely privatized. They vote for our motions for resolutions. We've privatized high-health technology. In a normal country, that's not the reason for 88 million euros. They've privatized sterilization, privatized oncoholic institutes, privatized the blood bank, privatized the tissue bank; they've got a big deal with ties of friends of the People's Party in public health. They guarantee that health is a right in our country and they vote for our initiatives. They fired off, destroyed 2,000 jobs in public health, destroyed more than 5,000 workers and public workers in our public administration. They vote on our initiative, on 39th, in which if Galicia goes so well and we are very proud, indeed, to repeal Law 1/2012, of February 29, which is a massive attack on workers and public workers. And please also in that resolution to leave once and for all stored in the drawer the suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Workers' Convention which affects above all the well-being – Mrs. Rodríguez later will tell us that it's going great, that everything is going great... – the workers to whom they are not guaranteed the right to rest. They go through the residences of this country and stop making and torture the workers and the public workers. And we're also going to talk about education – we're leaving education – which worries the People's Party and the absent president so much: 1,250 workers and less workers. It seems they're not relevant; total, for something as insignificant as education is, for, no problem; 532 lessons suppressed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u15	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u16	...107 schools closed; and, as you know – and I said – 21% budget reduction. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they had decency, they would do what Alternative Gaga asks in their first resolution, which is to recognize that they are dead, that they are exhausted, that they have no ideas. They dissolve the House and call for elections, that's what you should do. And, on behalf of the Alternative Left Gaga, we ended up recognizing the pulse, the abilities of this people, this country and this nation. We say that we pick up the beam of tides and say – as in those verses, in that letter, Celso Emilio Ferreiro – that we raise our heads, we take the force and, friends and friends of this bench – do not save – without doubt, we will kill the wolf.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. Madam spokesperson for the People's Group, tell Mr. Feijóo that your analysis of the situation in our country has been discredited by the balance we have made. Tell him also that about his arrogance a reality described with data that does not allow discussion is imposed. Fortunately, the Greeks and the Greeks have already made the determination to put a stop to their delusions of statesman. He made it, first of all, in May of this year, we are sure that they will do so at Christmas and that it will be the prelude of his fall in 2016. Socialist women and men are willing to lead that desire for change when the time comes. However, the agonistic situation in which our country lives does not admit delays and we have an obligation to install – Mr. President, and you – that in the time that remains before the Government take steps to prevent the decomposition of the country. Mr. Absent President, you leave a Galician with fewer Greeks and Greeks, with more unemployment, more impoverished, more unequal and more indebted than when you arrived at the Government. Even today, newspapers are gathering the increase in more than two points of severe poverty since Mr. Feijóo is president. Mr President absent, you, since you arrived, took too long to justify yourself and chose to hide behind the inheritance received and after the economic crisis to undo what was done and to change the model of society. His balance now presents a catastrophic result that will cost a lot to overcome, with a society with less rights. In his model, we passed from right to right to charity; from including charity. And the rain of measures, Mr President, announced in the debate yesterday in the motions for resolutions – checks, aids, bonuses, etc. – what announces us is electoralism that replaces rights. Mr. Feijoo, you are going to go into history as the first president of a historical nationality who has refused to have a political project for your country. You lack a roadmap to politically develop our differentiated reality within a more plural and open Spain. [[Applause]] He refused to exercise self-government and to claim respect for our powers, refused to claim those that we have not yet transferred, refused to defend Galicia to seek the sympathy and applause of his party in Madrid. Socialists want more and better autonomy, we want fair funding, we want a new model of autonomous financing, we want to participate in fiscal policy and to deepen the powers of autonomous self-government. You must put in place a genuine policy of combating inequality, promoting the increase in income from a new financing model, the fight against tax fraud and the creation of new taxation within the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Community. Making good use of existing resources is an obligation always, and more in times of scarcity and deep inequality. It's indecent the low budget execution of his government. We believe that we have to guarantee the execution, especially of investment-related expenditure, in order to help revive the economy. Galicia is disillusioned. Immediately, we must stop the indentation and exodus of Welsh and Welsh. We believe it is essential to provide the demographic dynamisation plan for evaluable measures, budgets and targets, prioritising the creation of women and young people, planning public services to reconcile working and family life, especially in rural areas. More economic resources to increase the female occupancy rate is the best recipe against population indentation. We must fight against the chronication of unemployment and the loss of the most qualified people. Mr. Feijóo, it isn't up to the Conde Councillor to take a picture of an investigator, as if he were a sports star; what we have to do is work to make possible the return of the investigator's staff. You must return to the investment effort that was made in 2009, when there were fewer unemployed people than now, and agree with the other administrations, especially the local administration and economic and social agents, a strategy to combat unemployment that strengthens the public service of employment and prioritizes long-term unemployed people and groups of difficult integration. It takes political will, Mr President; the rest is all written. We all know that we must be able to take advantage of the times of unemployment, that one of the first measures to be taken is to maintain the employment already there and stabilize it, that it is necessary to link all the incentives and incentives that exist at a rate of stability due to the fall of indefinite recruitment, that the wage model worked and therefore it must be recovered, and that the territorial employment pacts were a good tool to work with local administrations in, for example, the recruitment of long-term unemployed people to rehabilitate urban spaces, to maintain infrastructure, etc. Young people, the most qualified, who have gone away, have to be drawn back to Galicia, but not to offer them contracts of misery and jobs under their qualification, but to play a role in changing the production model, accompanying the rest of society to a better future. It begins by creating, along with the universities of Greece, an observatory of Thursdays and of immigration, which evaluates migration flows and works in two directions: on the one hand, so that the countries that have welcomed them guarantee their rights and, on the other hand, to bring them back to Galicia. Mr President, behind all your ideas, you're beating improvisation and the blows of effect. Suddenly, you decided that social policy should become a priority, and in order to amend the absence of any plan to fight against inequality and exclusion, it made Ferrol's former mayor. Mr. President, your speeches provoke empty horror and are filled with common places, as well as those of your advisers, who repeat artificial blankets. You must understand that equality is the backbone of any modern nation. The more social cohesion we have, the more we work for equality, the stronger we will be as a country. [[Applause]] Give him back, Mr. Feijóo, think that you too are a citizen, just like the others, and between lunch and lunch concentrates on the country and on the government he presides. We believe it is necessary to extend the benefits of inclusion income to all people who do not have any kind of income, eliminating the bureaucratic obstacles imposed to favour dissident and speeding up the deadlines to comply with the current legislation. Its breaches are scandalous: people with right to risk, waiting between six and eight months; people with recognized right to dependency, dying without getting paid; the dependency waiting list, the state's highest; the gross loads you apply are making people leave day centres and residences for unable to pay. You dared to do what no one else did. A short time ago we witnessed a felony: he set up a hospital in Vigo, private, to make his friends richer, and still above with visible deficiencies. All the media, without exception, all of them, played snapshots of carpets, of the hecatomb. There's no precedent in Galicia's health history. Public health needs to be restored. We urge you to guarantee the universality of health care, to ensure the quality and sustainability of the public health system in Greece, to restate the health budget and compromise the percentage of GDP to reach the level of the countries in our environment. [[Applause]] Immediately paralyze all anticipated privatizations and start reverting the ones you've already done. Start, Mr. President, by Vigo's new private hospital. [[Applause]] Socialists attach crucial importance to education. For us it is the basis upon which it must rest the growth of Galicia of the future. We defend a public, secular and egalitarian school. We don't admit nuances in defense of commitment to education. We are radically advocates of public education. It's one of our identity signs. Mr Feijóo, stop the constant aggression against public education. It immediately derogates LOMCE and returns to an inclusive educational system. You recover the working conditions seized by the professor during the crisis, with the excuse of the crisis; agree to call for a powerful job offer to guarantee the right to education. It's more, Mr. President, stop using employees – worth redundancy – public as electoral merchandise. It retains the labour rights surrounded by his government and by Mr. Rajoy's government during the crisis and rests the replacement rates for all public employees: those of education, those of health, those of social services, those of the university, researchers...; for all public employees. Socialists are very proud of the educational system we have built, with the help of citizenship, since 1982. We're going to be inflexible in their defense, because it was one of the biggest modernizing transformations in our country. The next President of the Government of Spain, Mr Pedro Sánchez, has already publicly undertaken to promote the immediate derogation from LOMCE. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, in this chapter, about education as a growth bench, we also include universities. The Greek university demands greater commitment, and the commitment is not that the Education Counsellor here present the day before the debate of the state of autonomy, sit with the directors at the Galego Council of Universities to try to appear in a benevolent photo for you the next day. The commitment, Mr President, is that the new university funding plan is consistent with the averages of the European Union's university systems, reaching a level of funding of 1.5 % of GDP by 2020. In his service sheet in Galicia, we can find the greatest aggression in the history of our autonomy at the main sign of identity of the Greek people: our language. Well, we socialists again urge their government to promote a true political and social consensus around the language, which must never be broken, by derogating from the decree of multilingualism and by returning to the development of a new decree within the Linguistic Standardization Plan. Mr. President, you, who have the custom of raising the banners of all and of all against those who do not think like you, rescue the flag from the language. He's paying for those good and generous quotes that he's testifying to his speeches, and he doesn't despise our main sign of identity, which is Galicia's own language. During his term of office, the productive sectors of the country suffered from their inaction, discretion and improvisation. There is no industrial policy, and its strategy of internationalization has ceased to be an ambitious global program to become a strategy of personal promotion. You have not been able to take advantage of the economic resources that can be derived from the implementation of the European Economic Stimulation Plan, the Juncker Plan, with which Galicia must correspond at least around EUR 1,500 million, which you do not claim. Nor are you able to regain the role of Igape or the funding lines of the European Investment Bank – the EIB – or to develop a tourism policy that promotes, for example, the increase in average stays or to support trade to promote employment and competitiveness. It is necessary to put in place urgent measures such as R & D+i recovery and momentum at public funding levels in 2009, also calling for the elimination of the public employment replacement rate, which is now 10% in the R & D+i sector. Mr. Feijóo, Galicia is an electric power and the only result for the pockets of the Galicians and the Greeks is that we sell light but we pay more than the others for that light. It must transfer to the Government of Spain the position contrary to the reform guidelines of the sector, demanding that premiums be recovered from renewables, the modification of the procedure for calculating the price of electricity production for ordinary system installations, a new methodology for calculating fixed production costs and a regulation for distributed generation self-consumption. You were unable to take advantage of the macro-advisorship of the environment which you created and which now disassembled the greatest glory of your frivolity as ruler, to use public work as an engine of the economy. It rises, Mr Feijóo, in front of the central government and complains now, as he did when those who were in the central government responded to Galicia, the end of the AVE, not suppressing the frequencies of the railway, the investment so often delayed – or worse, paralysed –, in intermodal stations, on high-capacity roads or in ports of general interest. [[Applause]] Bet on dynamizing the industrial floor, move your management to the Industry Council – now that it is with cosmetic changes – and end with the sanitation of rivers and rivers, which has been unable to comply since its government, to respond to the Water Framework Directive and so stop penalizing us because you don't comply. Over the past few months, we could see how the streets of our cities and villages were filled with protesters. The passivity of his government is so visible that the Greeks and the Greeks form a social whole to claim the defense of the dairy sector. When did you find that the dairy sector had a problem? When he saw demonstrations and tractors in the streets. So far you and the advisor denied it. What did you do then? You didn't lose a minute trying to solve the problem. For you the problem wasn't before, nor is it now the price of milk, for you the problem was and it's the mobilizations and the tractors. You and the advisor spent the last two months trying to dissolve the demonstrations. [[Applause]] Mr President, it is easy: put in writing the obligations and penalties for these voluntary agreements reached, because if not, it is all wet paper. They do so like France, they impose the mediator figure, they copy the good one, and they start at once an industrial plan with budgetary resources to generate added value, to transform, to increase the territorial base of farms and to enable resources to prevent them from disappearing, and to ensure that yellow gainees have at least the same level of help as others to avoid unfair competition. Every year Galicia suffers a wave of fires that makes us all shake. We need a genuine prevention policy that puts a stop to this lacquer, and it must be based, at least, on changing forest policy, diversifying production and exploiting the potential of the Galician mountain, primaryizing as first and most important preventive assets for farmers and livestock, restructuring and unifying the firefighting service so that it is public and professional and establishing specific protections for protected natural spaces – for you always forgotten –. But not only is the agricultural sector in the streets, but also the fishing sector, Mr. Feijóo. What a skinny balance for you!Less working people, less working boats, less hanging lockers and not a single square meter of aquatic facilities built since you've been in the government. The only good news in the fisheries sector gives us the transformation sector. They even forgot to develop the plan of the conservatory and the frozen that was made to them. He defends our fishing, Mr Feijóo, its potential as a sector likely to create jobs and wealth, especially in bass and shellfish. Stop trying to protect them and promote the value of the Welsh fishery products, their transformation, women's employment, and fight in Madrid for getting the tax and quota distribution between autonomous communities and fleets not to continue to discriminate against Galicia, as it is doing at this time. [[Applause]] Mr President, before I finish my speech, I would like to address the situation of half the population – between which I meet – of women. You just made a remodeling of government, took out two women from two councils, and put in two men: eleven people only four women. You have a government that violates parity. We are deeply convinced that his first government also did so. You persist and sink into the mistake. Their commitment for equality is the same as the decrease in the budgets of the General Secretariat that they have to carry out equality policies. You refuse – you and your vice president – to recognize as victims of the violence of the women whose comrades murdered their children, had or have not denounced them. You refused to lend your support to thousands of young gales who lost their right to decide about their body because of an unfair and cruel reform of the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy. You gave your favourable vote here to a law that recognizes the right of LGTBI people to now have her hidden in an undeveloped drawer. He did it then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u19	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u20	...to be well served, but his reactionary ideology returned to the closet to those who should enjoy the visibility and normalization that established the law. Mr. Feijóo, rectify, restores the budget in the field of equality, works with justice, with prosecution, with bodies and security forces to counter the disconnection and discoordination that still exist, educate in values, in equality, and develop rights. The Socialists, Mr President, we believe that all these measures which I have just outlined must be put into effect immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Galicia's high priority is to regain rights, defeat inequality and build a new model of economic growth, end all the obstacles that you have been putting in place to build up a weaker and unequal society. Working for a fairer, more inclusive, more egalitarian society, working for a more freer, stronger and more prosperous country is our commitment. They don't change people's work for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u21	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u22	The determination of our people has no return and change is already on its way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u23	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, members of the Government, today we are addressing the second part of this debate of the state of autonomy; a debate clearly framed by being the last of this legislation and by being the last of the elections too; a debate in which the President-in-Office committed measures to move the effects of recovery to citizenship and a debate in which opposition groups predicted the end of the Feijó cycle and the beginning of a new time. Let me remind you that this is not the first time that opposition groups wish the end of the Feijóo era and wish the end of the People's Party. There is not much, in March 2012, in a debate about the state of Autonomy – the last debate about the state of Autonomy of the previous legislation – the opposition predicted that the Greeks would sign the finale of President Feijóo and that his government was exhausted. As you know, they went wrong in their predictions, because seven months later the Greeks and the Greeks decided that the People's Party had expanded its majority in Galicia. That's why you're wrong in your predictions and you're wrong in your balance sheet and evaluation of the Galician situation. You're wrong. [[Applause]] In this debate, two issues have been found: firstly, that we have a renewed government, with real proposals, centered on a different economic context, in the face of an opposition permanently closed by reforms which seems to be more concerned by the popular unity of their parties than by the popular unity of demands of Greek citizenship. By the way, the Socialist Party has just offered itself now to lead this great change in Galicia; I don't know if it's the big change in Galicia or you want to lead a big change in your party. [[Applause]] And, look, you can come here twisting the figures, but today we're better than a year ago. Actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u25	Quiet. Quiet, ladies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u26	...Mrs. Gallego, today we're better than a year ago. Economic indicators agree that the economic situation is evolving, that we are leaving behind the crisis and that the recovery is gradually consolidated. And why does this happen? Why are we today better than last year? Because the German Government has avoided the problems resulting from the deficit. The Greek Government has controlled the debt and the Greek Government has maintained and improved public services, and you don't want to acknowledge this effort. But, look, however, we know that the recovery and crisis we've been living in the last few years still have very hard consequences for many people. We know that the economic recovery that we have begun to see is not yet seen in many homes and we know that it is essential to follow those people who are still unemployed and who are at risk of social exclusion. That's why the German Government has been fighting for years and making a great effort to be around people who need it most, to fight unemployment, to fight poverty, to fight social inequality and to fight against exclusion. And, look, if you want to check it out, you can check it out, but not with the figures you're reporting here, you can check it with a document, with the budgets this year of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because that commitment is shown in figures, not words; in figures. Look, to help people who are going through the worst in Galicia, there's a strategy of Galician social inclusion, with 521 million euros. The budget for Risga has risen to over EUR 53 million, 130% more than it was in 2009. Besides, what we think is that employment is the best formula for helping people who are currently at risk. That's why 10 million euros are allocated to recruiting people who are at risk. In social emergency aid, it also increased by 50%. And if we talk about dependency, you know it and you can check it: the budget has doubled, about 300 million euros. It's true that it's probably necessary for us to have more budgets for dependency, but, look, you can't deny that with 300 million euros more dependent people are being cared for than with 126 million euros, which is what you were dedicated to, those who have as a flag the defense of people in a dependency situation. They dedicated half of what is currently being used to care for dependent people. And there are more public squares. How? In the midst of economic crisis a government can put in place and at the disposal of the Greeks and the Greeks more public squares than others in times of kindness. Because, look, there are 3,250 new public squares in residences, day centers and Alzheimer's centers, 848 new squares for older people and 3,854 squares in children's schools – new squares –. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time Galicia meets the ratio that marks the European Union in covering children's school squares for our children and our children. And you want to talk about poverty. Of course, we want to talk about poverty and we want to talk about child poverty. But, Mr President, I am going to leave you a report from the European Poverty Reduction and Social Exclusion Network that just left where it says that the risk of poverty in Galicia in 2009 was 20.6% and in 2014, 15.4%. And I'm going to leave this report to you, which also says that the poverty risk rate in Galicia has kept a smooth and continuous decline which has brought down the whole period of 5.2 percentage points, which is the highest reduction in all autonomous communities. If you want reliable data, you can consult the Report of the European Poverty Reduction Network; you can consult it. [[Applause]] They don't try to deceive, poverty and the fight against child poverty are a priority of this government in Wales. From Galicia, a strategy was launched to combat poverty, particularly child poverty, but the Government also launched a national plan to fight poverty: €136 billion – €136 billion – €136,000 million to fight poverty! – and an extraordinary fund of €17 million unique and exclusively to fight child poverty. [[Applause]] And in addition, the Union has put in place a plan against economic inequality; a plan that not only reaches people who have no income, but is a plan for people who, still having income, still having employment, it costs them to reach at the end of the month; measures that are going to be extended and that are being applied, such as the bonus of drugs or the mobility support material, such as helping families in situations of death, families that cannot pay their mortgage, families that cannot afford their rent, families that currently have an order of eviction and do not have to leave their homes. And that's because the Government of Galicia has signed an agreement with the banking authorities of this country so that people don't have to leave their homes when they were and have an eviction order they don't have to leave their homes, Mrs. Pontón, they don't have to leave them. [[Applause]] And help for school materials, for primary and secondary children, with 3 million euros. And electrical aids, for all those families who have difficulty paying for their light receipt. And in relation to employment, ladies and gentlemen, unemployment is Galicia's first problem for us, for you and for everyone. And, of course, the Youth Employment Plan faced unemployed under 30 years of age, with 100 million euros, 48,000 boys and girls out of unemployment thanks to this plan. Long-term unemployed, through the Active Plan, 10 million euros. In training, EUR 66 million; and supporting self-employed, entrepreneurs and cooperatives, EUR 27 million. And look, you assume you're the one who defends public education and you're the one who defends public health. It seems that the Government of the Union and the Members of the People's Party do not defend it. Well, you've invented the concerted education. During his government, concerts increased more than with any government in Galicia's history, and the People's Party is now doing what you took away from education: wages and rest rates. With you a 10% replacement rate, and with us a 100% replacement rate Who defends public education? [[Applause]] Who defends public education in Galicia? Ladies and gentlemen, we have more teachers per student, we are the autonomous community with more teachers per student. He dropped the dropout rate; please check it out. In 2009, 25.6% of the drop-out rate; in 2014, 18.5% of the drop-out rate. The university fees have been frozen for five years. There are 13,700 more school dining places for our children and our children, and 85.5% of these children pay absolutely nothing for the school dining room, or they pay only 1 euro! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, health in Galicia is not kidnapped, health in Galicia is 100 percent public. His professionals are public, his attention is public; therefore health is not kidnapped in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] While the Greeks positively value the state of public health, 73.2 percent of the Greeks – most of them – we positively value public health, what do you do? Lying to citizenship and disparaging our system. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you remember again what they told all the Greeks and all the Greeks? Is it right now, Mrs Gallego, that we have to pay 513 euros every day that we are hospitalized? Yes or no? Do we have to pay 206 euros for going to a doctor's office right now? [[Murmurs.]] Yes or no? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Repeat. And is it true, Mr. President, is it true, Mrs. Gallego...? Mr. Lumba, is it true that right now the accompaniants of the sick in Vigo hospital have to pay a chair to sleep with the sick? Lies, lies, they're issues that you've secured in this House and in the media, and what you're doing is lying to citizenship, and making clear what your credibility is as a group. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u27	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u28	But look, there are three questions we're already in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u29	Ma'am! Continue, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u30	Thank you. There are three issues we all agree on in relation to Vigo's new hospital: it's a hospital, it's new and it's in Vigo. And look, look, Mr. Losada, I can assure you that soon they will change their mind and it will be for all a new hospital, public and in Vigo. Surely you will change your mind and recognize that in Vigo citizenship at this moment has a hospital in full time of recession and crisis, which you did not have when you ruled in good times. [[Applause]] But, look, their credibility is not only an intrusion when they talk about health, their credibility is an intrusion when they talk about the naval. Remember the ghost fleets? Do you remember the months and months that we had to hear that it was a lie, that the president was deceiving the workers, that the president was deceiving the Galician society, that it was an electoral proposal that didn't exist, that it was smoke? What do they say now? Do you ask forgiveness from the naval workers? Do you ask forgiveness? You don't ask forgiveness for either cheating on health care, or cheating on naval workers. [[Murmurs.]] You don't ask forgiveness for anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u32	...and they recognize absolutely nothing. And they criticize the social services – a mantra that you have been repeating since 2009 – that the Government of the Union privatizes social services. I would like to make a point and explain to them – that you know – that the first government in the board that privatized social services, the building of residences, the building of day centres and the management of social services, Mr. Social Policy Advisor, was a government that created a company, a company that had a name, Sogaserso, a company where the board was involved; a company in which, in addition, its partners had actions in other companies that also had competences in relation to social services but, of course, there is a difference: you are visionaries, visionaries, you find new solutions to the problems and then it turns out that the problem is the current government. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, what's clear is that you defend your ideas when you're in opposition, but you put them in a drawer when they get to the government. And of course, that's what citizenship knows, and that's what citizenship sees. [[Applause]] And it is surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition groups are not in agreement with reducing the average income tax and low income. They disagree. [[Murmurs.]] They disagree, Counselor, that 99% of the Greeks do not pay the tax of successions and prayers. They disagree. And they don't agree that you're operating a zero tax program in rural areas either. Of course, it looks like a splendid battery of tax measures. And surely, Counselor, most of the Greeks look like a good battery of tax rebates. [[Applause]] Because that's what we have to do: move recovery to citizenship, and that's what the Union Government is doing. Our motions for resolutions, spokesperson for the AGE Group, are committed to consolidating this economic recovery, to fighting unemployment, to bet on public services, and to move those effects from recovery to citizenship. You, who want to have the right to decide, in this debate of the state of autonomy, will have the right to decide. And they will have to decide whether they approve and whether they agree with measures that are designed for people, which are designed for families who are still suffering the consequences of the crisis, which are designed for families where recovery to their homes is not yet reached, which are designed for the industrial sector, for the productive sectors. Finally, you have to decide, and you will have to decide whether you bet on yourself or whether you bet on Galicia. They'll have to decide. [[Applause]] They already have the right to decide, they decide whether they bet on their interests or whether they bet on the interests of all the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u33	Thank you very much. The position of parliamentary groups in relation to others' proposals. For the Joint Group, the Iglesias and Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u34	Thank you, President. I will vote on the proposals of the opposition parliamentary groups, for the ideological and political coincidence with regard to them, and I congratulate them on the work done. It was nice and exciting to read your proposals, and I hope that sooner or later the proposals can be carried out. I would like to highlight BNG's motion for resolution No. 13 to include the term "feminicide" in the Greek law, coincides with that tabled by this honourable Member with paragraph 6. We saw an unceasing increase in the number of victims of macho violence, and in the number of sexist and misogynistic behaviors in youth and even in childhood. Something is doing wrong or inappropriately. A matter of such magnitude requires radical measures in order to root out this crack. The number of victims of male violence is 76 throughout the state and 8 in Galicia in the year. And these are the known cases, there are many more feminicides that remain hidden. This data indicates that the policies and resources that are being implemented are not being at all efficient and sufficient. I abstained from the People's Party's motions for resolutions 1, 2, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 19, 24, 27, 30, 31, 32, 34, 38 and 39, because, although they are very well drafted, they imply a continuation of the policies that we are rejecting the opposition parliamentary groups, or contradict government actions. I'm sorry, but I can't be trusted. Like number 39, for the drafting of a museum law. It is clear that the Government's disillusionment with the theme of the museums in the case of the Archaeological Museum of Ourense, with an amendment tabled by the People's Party and unanimously approved in full to a PNL of this Member for the reform and implementation of the previous building. Today, the museum remains closed and opened because of the disinterest of the Central Government and, consequently, of the Government of the United States. I can't vote in favour of resolution 37, nor can I, for which I abstain. I hope that the measures envisaged by the resolution will be complied with so that you realize that co-education in teaching – a transaction that did not accept me – is essential in the fight against patriarchal misoxinia that generates masque violence, historical misoxinia that reflects on educational texts, history, literature, science, music, art at all. I remind you that there are only three women honoured on the day of the Greek lyrics: Rosalía, Francisca Herrera and Maria Mariño. Or number 38, to renew commitment to Greek and to raise awareness of its usefulness; wet paper if we analyze its linguistic policies. I tried to compromise Resolution No. 5 so that the recovery of the employee's extra pay would be through the payment of 100 percent and interest of delay in 2016 and not 50%, as well as the replenishment rate was also outside of 100 percent. But there was no way to wake up. I will vote in favour of the proposals of PP Nos 4, 6, 14, 16, 20, 21, 23, 25, 29, 33, 35 and 36; and I would like, in particular, to vote in favour of proposal No 4, which favours the draft law on social economy and cooperativeism. The rest count on my support for going in favour and improving – although in a small way – the social conditions of citizenship. It is gratifying to have reached an agreement with you by negotiating proposals on the dairy sector, because in the new text there are no cracks in this sector's winners to coordinate the drafting of a strategic plan for the future that collects their demands and proposals. I hope it's a reality and I give them my vote of confidence. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u35	Well, there's little time to talk about so many important things. I shall begin with the People's Party and with regard to the resolutions I shall vote against. I'm not going to say the number, but the resolutions that talk about continuity of the Youth Employment Support Programme and the self-employed under the age of 30. I think it's pure propaganda and it's subsidies to companies to hire youth with precarious wages and working conditions, and that, of course, gives no solution to the reality that self-employed people are living. I will also vote against resolution 3, which we are talking about is long-term unemployed. And what is the solution our Government gives you? Well, collaboration with non-profits and training. A long-term unemployed person wants to be guaranteed income. Do you think they're going to solve long-term unemployed without income in training their future? So on the contrary. I will also vote against it for not returning to public workers the rights that have been usurped; and, of course, against the arrival of the IRPF. And also resolutions 8 and 9, because they didn't accept the amendment I presented to them saying that this ICT bet and technology had to be for public education. You've refused to accept that it was for public education, which makes me think it's going to be money that's going to take private education. Therefore, my refusal. I will also vote against resolution No 10, because it sets the limit of investment in universities in budgetary stability, and instead of continuing to privatize high technology, which I believe to be, indeed, almost a reconnaissance that we are considering as a resolution, when we have spoken in this Parliament, all the opposition, against the privatization of all areas of health and, in particular, of high technology. Also against number 13, because it's really a pure propaganda. I introduced an amendment that urged Junta to ensure palliative care and the ADO service in all the municipalities that are far from the hospital, and voted against. So your idea is not just to serve these citizens but to make propaganda. I will vote against the 16th because they have also rejected the amendment and it seems that the Board has to ask for a favor from the oil tankers instead of asserting the German Government and the rights of the people of Greece, and against not changing the waste management model. And then I'll vote in favour of some, a little to give them that opportunity, though I don't think they go beyond propaganda, but to give them the opportunity to show whether they're willing to move forward. I will vote against resolution 40. I think, of course, a coat of hair that comes to us this evening with this proposal. I think that, well, it's more of the same and that you're not thinking about the Greek people; you're thinking about the cohesion of Spain, one that I don't know very well how to interpret it, instead of talking about Galician cohesion, which is our country and they've totally abandoned. As for the resolutions of others, I am going to abstain in the 24th and 25th Socialist Party, since they collect some of the works that I disagree with, nor with that model of continuing to bet on high speed when the most important thing is to cohesion our country. And I will vote against number 28 because of the centralization that involves the treatment of waste in Sogama. And as for alternative gaga resolutions, I'm kind of waiting for a clarification in number 25, which is the situation they propose for Reganosa. I understand that the transfer of Ence is requested but I am not clear whether as soon as Reganosa asks for its transfer, its closure or what it really does ask for. And I will also vote against proposal No. 12 of the Joint Group itself, since I understand that it does not benefit minority groups or social minorities that kind of vote. And as for the rest of the amendments of the People's Party, I have abstained from several of them; in particular, in terms of the risk, the bonuses and the birth bonus bets. I think it's propaganda, that it doesn't solve our country's demographic problem, and -- it's finished -- that it's not beyond being an election campaign -- which has already begun Wednesday -- of trend changes. But I'm not going to vote against someone even if it's only that misery of 100 euros. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u36	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u37	Thank you very much, President. Now, while I was on the scene listening to the intervention you did here by the spokesperson of the People's Group, I thought what would many of the people in this country think of your intervention, what would a 40- or 50-year-old man or woman who has been unemployed for two or three years, who has already exhausted his benefits and has no doors open, what would a young man or girl who had to emigrate because there are no opportunities here, what would all those people who are working with wages of misery, under the minimum interprofessional salary, without rights or the future, when they hear that we live here in a country where there seems to be no problems, because the People's Party is reducing people to statistics. And we want to tell you that in this country problems continue to exist, and statistics you can torture, manipulate, do with them whatever you want; but reality outside is still the same, and reality is too hard for many people. And the pride that comes to the debates in this Parliament really only serves to prove that they do a policy not only that they do not take account of this country but that they do an empty, heartless policy, and that they forget that there are many people out there suffering and having a very bad time. It is really, from my point of view, shameful to see the triumphalism of a government that despises people's problems. It seems to us a very sad balance in this debate. Because, look, you don't only despise people with these kinds of interventions, you also despise any other idea than yours, even here you come to tell us that Galicia is the People's Party. No, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is much more than the People's Party, and Galicia, of course, is a plural society and must respect people who do not feel like you. You don't even talk or agree to change anything at all, you don't accept any different proposals. Because they don't accept – if they don't get nervous, counsellors, don't get nervous, nothing happens – you don't want to accept reality. [[Murmurs.]] And they come here repeating an argument, opposing the opposition, saving the furniture at a time when we have to save the Welsh and the Welsh, Galician. It's just that Feijóo doesn't interest us at all, and that's the only concern you have. [[Applause]] Look, there's one argument that they've been repeating all the legislation and it seems to us that it's the symptom of how they manipulate reality. Every time we talk about poverty they deny that there is a problem in this country, or they tell us: there are others who are worse. This is the politics of fools who never want to look at what's best and always look at what's worse. But the same fact of the rise in risk indicates the rise in poverty; therefore, there is a very serious problem that cannot be addressed because risk is not a solution, risk is an intermediate step. And what needs to be solved is poverty, ladies and gentlemen, not to go on tired with an argument that is absolutely useless and that – as we said – is a hilarious argument. We also want to denounce today the lie about these supposed compromise proposals that you refer us to the rest of the groups, because they are proposals that in practice we take up their proposals. They're not proposals to pick up, through a synthesis, different alternatives and, therefore, change something in the politics they're doing. No, no, you present us with a role in which you want us to assume your policy. And I'm going to say this about two aspects that seem very important to us, such as the naval sector and the dairy sector. And so first of all, the truth is, it's embarrassing to see a press release on the official website of the Galician Union of 15 October 2015, where we are told that the Union positively values that 83% of milk holdings will benefit from the Ministry's supplementary assistance. It's just that it's a lie, it's not 83%, it's going to be about 5,000. First, by lying and deceiving people in connection with this agreement. And we also find it absolutely dementive that they value that they continue to thank the Ministry for the effort and the work done ahead. In any case, they would have to thank the landowners and landowners for their daily efforts to keep their holdings open even working on losses. [[Applause]] But how can they continue to applaud an agreement that the sector itself said was fraudulent and would be against their interests! [[Murmurs.]] How can you continue to applaud an agreement in which the German gloves are clearly discriminated against and you are amenating everything even if it is the cost of sacrificing a fundamental sector for this country! And that's why we can't accept this compromise proposal with the Joint Group, because at the end of this compromise proposal, what you are saying is that we have to applaud that decree that discriminates against our country. And what we propose is that what the Government of Greece has to do is defend the interests of our owners and of our knights and not the interests of Mrs. Tejerina, which have nothing to do with the interests of our country. I also want to draw attention to another fact that from our point of view is very serious, because it demonstrates how this Government should take for fools and fool the peasants of this country. This is this proposal for zero taxes in rural areas. As far as we know, the laws published in the DOG are in force, aren't they? So we're going to the DOG and there's a law, Law 4/2015, of modernization of Galicia's territorial structure. In that law a change has already been made to the taxes announced by Mr. Núñez Feijóo that he was going to eliminate. And they've already eliminated those taxes that today told us they were the big tax discount and the big bet he made on the countryside. What are we talking about? What does Mr. Núñez Feijó do with the interests of Galicia? The Greeks and the Greeks are not fools, neither are the peasants and the peasants. And, of course, it's a coat of hair that comes to us here to announce what's already collected in a law. [[Applause]] Or will all the taxes be suspended in rural areas? It would be an interesting question to clarify, but what aren't we talking about? We're talking about the same measures that were already passed in a law. And the next question that seems to us to be important is that of the naval, because the naval we continue to believe it is a strategic sector, but it seems that the German Government considers it an intelligence. We are presented with a compromise proposal that begins because first... it says, "Parliament urges the Union to develop an integral logistics optimization strategy appropriate to the new industry within the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda." This Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda is a slogan that has nothing behind it. We wonder what this new shipbuilding industry is. And what we think most serious about this proposal is that for the German Government, for the People's Party, Fene becomes considered to be auxiliary. And the most serious thing is, besides, that you're still horrifying, by the wind track, by dismantling the naval sector in Ferrol. We say, do you want to defend the naval sector? We have very specific proposals: an integral complex of the naval in the Ferrol River; a modernization plan that guarantees the incorporation of the shipyards into the Ferrol River; the projects of the Ferrol Naval Repair Centres, the Vigo River and the floating dam for Ferrol are presented. Many of them committed by the president when he went there, in the election campaign, asking for the vote on Ferrol. But at this point in time, it's not an electoralist use of people or the naval problem. What this is about is defending a strategic sector for Galicia, which depends thousands of jobs. This motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Group is a fraud that will serve nothing but to follow him by giving lies and false promises to the People's Party. We also want to say that we are not worth Mr Feijóo's tax proposals, because they are regressive proposals. Mr. Feijóo justified the withdrawal of the gratuitousness of textbooks because it was not possible to set gratuitousness to different incomes. However, in inheritances you don't mind removing that differential to all incomes. But it's not the same thing a person inherits 20,000 euros as 400,000, there's a huge difference! So we're clearly imposing a tax regression which is detrimental to the interests of this country and which is also regressive. And look, I think there are issues – far from these issues – that are very serious because they affect people's personal lives in a very clear way, and some are the challenges. It can't be said, in a country where there are eight challenges every day, that nothing happens and that the problem is solved. You can't say that, especially because, behind the backs of those who hang a policy in the service of the bank, there are also the deaths that caused the evictions; deaths that some of us have lived very recently in this country, and I think they must lead to a very serious and very profound reflection on what society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u39	...that's what some of us had in mind. I'm telling you, the Galician Nationalist Block isn't. So I would expect a withdrawal from that kind of statement, which insults not only the intelligence, but the dignity of many people who are going through it very badly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u41	...in this country. And finished, Madam President, simply saying that we are clear that we are through the union – as Pondal said – of the good Greeks, because in the union of the good Greeks it is of the homeland to be. You'll know why they're against two Greeks! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u42	Left Galician Alternative Group. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u43	Mrs. Rodríguez, I respect her very much, as you know. Not to others of the hemicycle in the People's Party benches, but to you. And look, with respect to the ship, I have to tell you that what you just said in this House is not able to accompany me to my city, with Mr. King Varela in front of you, and tell the workers and the workers. He's not who! Because look, there are four oil tankers who right now in their speech - and will not let me lie to Mr. King Varela - will be done in the bay of Cadiz. And we, in Ferrol, wild. We, in Ferrol, wild. And look, there's a reality, and it's that they're occupying the best yard still in the world, like Navantia-Fene, the old Astano, just with a wind sector and with the interests of a company called Iberdrola, Mrs. Rodríguez. So, as the engineers' schools say, it's not compatible to make boats by making those so-called jackets. So I'll invite you back. Come with me, nothing's gonna happen to him. We're kind and loving people in the district of Ferrolterra. Come over there and say what he said here, because it's fake. Second question, Mrs. Rodríguez. If you're controlling debt, you'd better not do anything, because 300 million more this year, the most expensive president in history, 10 billion euros; a bad manager, immediately fired into the private company without compensation. Austere application of labour reform. Stop controlling her! Don't swallow the citizenship of this country! Bad manager, indebted country, and they also owe it to keep paying the banks, in that dictatorship of creditors to whom you represent tremendously well. More things. Youth employment plan. Mrs. Rodríguez, look, I spent three years ago on something of this, and it's really a joke. 99% of these poor contracts of the so-called Youth Employment Plan, Mrs Rodríguez, are training contracts. Do you know what training contracts are like? I did, eh! I don't want them for any of the dearest people in my life, no doubt about it! Stop being precarious and alert to the workers and workers in this country. That's your model. The model we walk into is exactly that, the training contract for people who may be 32 years old, in our country, and don't win the minimum interprofessional wage. That's the model they want! They want us to go back to feudalism, they want us to work for a meal, a dress and a place! Not even that! And we say no, Mrs. Rodríguez, let's not swallow! Look, more questions. Severe poverty, he didn't speak of that indicative. So in our country we have over 50,000 since there's nothing, exactly 151,000 in our country. What policies are they doing? Nothing. They support our motion for a resolution, which is not revolutionary, in which we ask for a ransom for social emergency. We have transferred the measures requested by the ESC in this last of its reports. They vote in favour, it's nothing revolutionary, they listen to the ESC. And if they don't, explain here why; why don't they vote in favour of it. Tell us loud and clear. Look, I+D+i, let's talk about this... it's a drag! I don't know if you know any statements... state People's Party leaders are in trouble, but this is from Mrs. Carmen Vela, who is a very important woman, State Research Secretary. He said what: In Spain there are researchers. In Spain there are researchers. In fact, they kicked us! And what we ask of them is that they just comply with the initiative of the Gaga de Left Alternative. That of the 0.86 percent of the world goes to 1.26%, if they want to do something about college, thought and talent in this country. Of course, you have to be strict because numbers are worth something, not just to play, as Mr. President away does. We asked for more things. They're very worried. Right to decide, Mrs. Rodríguez. Of course, it is fundamental, for democratic reasons, in the developed peoples. Of course, we want to decide, we want to decide what Galicia wants, we want to decide everything at all, because it looks like... we live in a democracy, or not? We don't know. We would also like them to support the initiative that AGE is taking around to claim a commission of investigation concerning the disaster in Angrois. And if not, explain to the people in this country why they shut the door and why they keep making that big scam with the life and death of many humans. And more questions. As you know, I'm all the debates in the state of the nation, the three years we've been, I'm like a sort of atlas that I dedicate to the absent president of a country that must change, a sort of glossary. I'm also going to do this on this occasion, because I think it's an X-ray – through that glossary – of what we're living in Galicia, that real country, absent from Alberto Núñez Feijóo's speech. And he says so, starting with A. AP-9: Expropriated land, property of Audasa. Expropriate to the Greek people, who have to pay to move around their country. Last year and a half won 43 million profits. These are Feijóo's friends. B, Barriers. The finished model of urbanism of the PP. Berlin, capital of Galicia of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Cerceda. The incineration made business by Sogama. His friends, too. Luis Lamas placed in Mutua Gallega. Tomorrow. Dolmen de Dombatte, in Cabana de Berganginos. Neolithic art. Threatened to be converted into a multipurpose enclosure without control. An example of what doesn't have to be an archaeological park. I'm on it. The Strawberries of the Eume. It seems that they have recently been discovered by the Galician Union, which accumulates more than 15 years to draft and agree on a management plan to receive, in addition, the approval of ecologists and owners. F, Fene-Ferrol. It'll end up in the city of Galicia where the Union won't stop promising ships and forget the development of the railway. Gaiás. Delirium of an ex-Francist dictatorship minister. He's got blood on his hands. It costs too much to be worthless. Horrify it. Parliament which, for the neoliberal spell, is changing in a barracks Iria Flavia. Headquarters of corruption and devaluation of public money from a convivent Union. Lugo. The city of tractors dreaming of a milk that eats the livestock and the women of this country. Marin. Where Ence cleans his dirty business. They can vote on that initiative. And I would like to state to the Member of the Joint Group that we urge the closure of Reganosa. In this motion for a resolution we rightly call for the closure of highly polluting industries. Norway. State where the acts of the Union do not come in for our sailors. Open up. A millennia lace of a people who resist and will defeat the governments of the Troika. Oh, my God. The Priority Corporal. Way of debugging that fills the pockets of big business friends and destroys a stream as rich as beautiful. Rozas. That's what we're talking about here, too. NATO's base of war drones and business; perhaps a future Galician with military powers. Alberto Núñez Feijó's R & D+i. San Marcos. Be of the Media Merlin who hides the misery of the mighty and their foremen, some of them sitting here. Tagen Ata. Oniric geography of emancipation. That's why we work. Vigo. Zero area of sanitary privatization. Jackets. [...] natural sucked by the alien capital. It's Zurich. One of the destinations of the Greeks and the Greeks, of the economic exile of the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. We continue to work on trying to change the reality of this country, and we ask that on this second occasion Mrs. Rodríguez has told us about that data, that negative differential of what she didn't want to talk about. Of those data that indicate that Galicia is much worse than the average state. Of those economic growth data that say we're going to 1.8 while Spain is going to 3.8. From that data that tells us we're ruining employment; you, by your inaction and by your inaction. Tell us, if possible, of the data published by the formal and public bodies, Mrs. Rodríguez. If he doesn't talk about them, I understand he gives them for certain, he recognizes them. In any case, tell us how they're going to change their reality. And I'm done with something else: the law of dependency, Mrs. Rodríguez. You will also know the data – it is public – that indicates the per capita expenditure that Galicia applies, its government, and the state average. There's almost 30 euros difference. I think they should adopt our motion for a resolution. Or even that data you gave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u44	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u45	...respect of poverty, Mrs. Rodríguez, who knows it's calculated around the average wage. Any one of these hemicycles knows perfectly well that Galician average wages, unfortunately, are quite lower than the rest of the state. By the way, you can also approve the initiative that defends Alternative Left Galeg around the increase in our wages. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, and members of the Government. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you tried here, in your first intervention, to come back on Mr. Feijó's speech on Wednesday, to try to justify the figures and try to tell us that Galicia was better. But the truth is that the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group – who does not participate in this debate – has rejected it on Wednesday night. I've been attentive to the entire debate on Wednesday and I've heard Mr. Puy say that, in fact, he recognized that the data he has today Galicia in unemployed people, in people in poverty, in less Greek and Greek and in inequality were worse than those in 2009. Mr. Puy recognized him here in the debate. So, obviously do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u48	Mr. Puy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u49	...no more consideration on this. You were denied by your group spokesman. But even today in the media, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, as I told you in my speech, is recognized that severe poverty in Galicia has increased by more than two points since Mr. Feijó's rule. Moreover, we can move forward and we can talk about the dependency waiting list, that the lady-advisor ceased – not the Government, because Mr. Feijóo has to pay some favors to Mr. Black and some other things, so she couldn't leave the Government as he wanted, but yes to social policy – knows that there's 41% of the dependency waiting list, and that we're from autonomous communities with the most waiting list in Spain. And that in Galicia, as in other autonomous communities, there was also an economic crisis. For example in Asturias, which is an autonomous community that demographically has a very relevant resemblance to Galicia, although it obviously has a lot less population – three times less population – the dependency waiting list is less than 10%. In Galicia, 41%, and Asturias, less than 10%. In Asturias they spend three times more budgeting on income inclusion than in Galicia? Yes, with the same percentage of poverty. Is there a six- or eight-month waiting list? No, no, no, no. In addition, the list is published every month in the Official Journal of the Autonomous Community. So you can do things differently? Yes. Who rules in Asturias? Socialists. Now, look, the proposals that we present here, socialists, are proposals that are contrasted with other autonomous communities in which we have been ruling during the crisis, and the difference in data from those autonomous communities to their abismal. Ten percent of the waiting list in Asturias on dependency and 41 percent in Galicia. List of waiting for inclusion income in Galicia, six to eight months; no waiting list in Asturias. You spend 40 million euros each year on the income of inclusion in Galicia. Three more times they are dedicated to Asturias, with the same percentage – Mr. Puy, with the same percentage – of poverty, just like Galicia. So, data, you've already denied your spokesman. With regard to the motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Group? To continue, to deepen, to continue, to strengthen... What, to stop?, to poverty, to inequality, and that people have to leave Galicia because there is no future? No, no, no. [[Applause]] No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no. Proposals for resolutions with timetables and budgets, those are. Not the others! Look, we're going to vote in favour of two People's Party motions for resolutions, because despite the fact that they don't compromise time or budget, it's true that one......we were doing it, which was to introduce administrative assistants into educational centres, number 9 of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So if you continue a policy that we were making, of course, Counselor, that we will support you to continue to do it. [[Interruptions.]] And we are also going to support number 37, which talks about equality plans in education, because, despite the fact that it does not include budgeting or time frame, we believe that an equal plan in education needs to be made. If he doesn't set it up in a prudent manner, we'll demand it. And also – sorry, three of us are going to support them – we're going to support number 14, because it talks about extending the early detection program of colorectal cancer, because, even if it's no specific deadline, it seems to us an initiative that can be supported. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we're not going to support your number 40 initiative, although you're going to support our 40, curiously. We're not going to support your number 40 initiative, you know why? Because Mr Feijóo, in the opposition and in the Government, refused to defend Galician self-government. And when the Socialists in the opposition, in the Government, and again in the opposition, we put forward the reform of the Statute of Self-Government to shield social rights and strengthen self-government, you've always been against it. [[Applause]] Your motions for resolution 6 and 7, this rosary of bonds, cheques, aids, tax discounts, etc., which Mr Feijó promised us on Wednesday, are finally realized as a tax discount for middle and low income. What do you consider middle and low incomes? What were you counting on in the autonomic IRPF? Less than 60,000? Less than 120,000? More than 12,000? Minimum exemption high up to the first 400,000 euros per heir for inheritance tax and donations. About what courage? Catastral, market, what does the Public Fairy do? Too many questions to be able to support her. Let's abstain. We expect you to carry it out in the budget debate, Number 7: bonus-guard for parents who don't have squares. Are you going to replace a timely, electoralist aid for building more public day care facilities? Or the rural-career bonus for families in areas where there are no children's schools. I'll ask you the same question. Or the 100 euros per month for children born from 1 January 2016. Depending on the income, you say. What are you up to? How long, gentlemen of the People's Party? Concrete, implement the budget law, and we will support it accordingly. For now, abstention for those two. By the way, Mr. Social Policy Counsellor, I will be your counterpart in these debates that remain with us in this last year of Mr. Feijóo as President of the Board, in this last case. Will you allow your group to vote against building the Ferrol floating dam? I'm telling you because they're asking us about the union power stations that are watching this debate. [[Applause]] As for social policy, it is curious the interpretation that Mr Feijóo makes of this social money order with the marketing of appointing a counselor. The first motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Party today to vote in this Parliament literally bears the weight of social expenditure in the municipalities and in the Members' offices. Now that they don't govern them, now that they've lost their elections and only run one of the four deputies, and most of Galician citizens are governed by progressive governments, so now they ask the municipalities and deputies to help pay people at Risk and social services. Hey, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they take over your powers! Or don't you remember getting social services skills out of the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants? Or don't you remember they just sent them to the Town Councils, for the establishment of the Social Services Agency, an abusive and scandalous agreement? Or don't you remember you still have to solve what's going to happen to these competitions as of January 1, 2016? Stop making propaganda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u50	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u51	...and we'll see each other in the budgets, gentlemen of the People's Party. Mr Feijóo, once again, even if you do not want to appear like this, you are the president of unemployment, the president of poverty, the president of inequality, the president of Galicia, the president who refused to exercise the self-government of a historical nationality, putting us in a worse position than the other historical nationalities, which at this time have indeed renewed the statutes – which you have denied – and therefore are in better conditions than we are to negotiate the new model of self-financing and the new transfer of competences that we need. That's your inheritance, gentlemen of the People's Party. So, when they want the support of the Socialist Group, they look for concrete proposals, with deadlines, with figures and with definition of what they mean, because the rest, for advertising and propaganda, have arrived well six years, and in this last year of Government, Mr Feijóo, we do not want any more advertising or propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u53	Madam President, with regard to the motions for resolutions of the Joint Group, of the AGE and of the BNG, we shall vote in favour of all those in which we agree politically. Some, unfortunately, because of the wording of the proposals, because we have to mix too many issues, we cannot vote in favour of them, because we agree in some respects and not in others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u55	So we'll have to abstain or vote against some, even if some of them match us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u56	Group of the People's Parliament. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u57	Thank you, Madam President. A Member who comes to this House ensuring that the Council of Galicia has withdrawn the powers of social services from the municipalities of 20,000 inhabitants; when we explain to him by active and passively that it was a lie; when she has been in this Parliament in a process of adapting the law to our community, and here again insists that the councils of 20,000 inhabitants have no competence in social services, it is that you are, of course, retracted from your credibility. And, of course, discredited, completely discredited! [[Applause]] They keep insisting that we deny reality, and I tell them: either they didn't listen or they didn't understand anything during this debate of the state of Autonomy. I want to think they heard, understood, but they don't want to take it. Because look, we're just talking about the situation we're in when we get to the Union Government. We're talking about the situation that, thanks to the efforts of a government, we have right now, year 2015. And we're talking about the budgets that Galicia is going to have, thanks to these measures, in 2016. We also talk about economic indicators, but we also talk about people, about what is really going on in our society; we know that there are people who are suffering the consequences of this economic crisis for many years; we know that there are people who are unemployed; we know that there are people who are trapped in a situation of social exclusion. But what do you want to do, what do you want to do? Do you want to give the People's Party a speech so you can come here and say what you want? No, look, we say what the Greeks want; we solve the issues that the Greeks believe the Government of Galicia has to solve. You keep changing your criteria depending on where you are. If you're in Galicia, if you're in Asturias, if you're in Catalonia, or if you're in government or opposition. I don't ask them much, but a little yes, a little rigor! I think we, and the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks, would appreciate some rigour, Mrs. Gallego. Look, we offer seven major pacts to the opposition groups: about the Law of the Land, about the return of young entrepreneurs, about justice, about Alcoa, about health, about the return of migrants, about the naval and about the dairy sector. These great pacts, we were accepted by one of the naval sector. To the Socialist Party, to the Socialist Group, we offer three great pacts: the Law of the Land, the return of migrants, justice. They were all rejected. They have not tabled any amendments to the People's Group's proposals, and we accept four proposals from the Socialist Group: tourism, trade policies, electoral participation abroad, compliance with the motions for resolutions. AGE, we offer a great pact on the naval. They accepted. They made no amendment to the People's Party's proposals, and we accepted two AGE proposals: one about Alcoa and another about the universality of health care. Nationalist Block Galego. We offer two major pacts: about the return of migrants and the naval sector. They were rejected. Yes, Mr. Jorquera, we thank you for being the only opposition group you wanted to meet with this House's majority group. Thank you. We accept a proposal from you, the pensions of sailors in the Norwegian state. Joint Group. We offer a great pact on the naval sector, the only great pact of the seven we offer, accepted one. They tabled amendments to our proposals, from which we accepted one. And we accept three proposals from the Joint Group: on the increase in social expenditure, on the condemnation of male violence, on transparency in the lists of substitutes for civil service. But by reviewing each and every one of the motions for resolutions tabled by the opposition groups –40 per group – it is easy to realize that you do not agree on fundamental issues for the country. You do not agree because they present concretely contradictory motions for resolutions against each other. You put forward motions for resolutions that sometimes have nothing to do with our country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why we, when we said that we came predisposed to the agreement, understand that it's hard for you to agree with us, when you, among yourselves, don't understand each other. Because they look at the fundamental issues for Galicia in which opposition groups have not been able to agree: fiscal policy, public bank – there are those who want, there are those who do not want, there are those who want a type of public bank, there are those who want another type - about electoral reform, about the industrial model, about fundamental road infrastructures in our community, about energy policy - different models, ladies and gentlemen - about national sovereignty – of course we are going to solve all the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks with national sovereignty – in the reform of the derogation of the labour market law – there are those who want to derogate, there are those who do not want to derogate. [[Applause]] You see, before you try a popular union, you have to try to mark a little bit more your country model, because right now they have completely different country models; and having completely different country models is very difficult to offer a country model to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And the Socialist Group insists one more year, insists one more year, on returning to the mistakes they have made in the past. They want the Galician Union to get Mr. Feijóo back and back to the situation in 2009. You will understand, Mr President, and most of the Greeks and Greeks we understand, that we do not want to go back to that situation, that we do not want to go back to those policies because we know that they left our country in a deep crisis and on the edge of the rescue. We don't want to go back to the situation in 2009. What we've had to do is manage, manage the consequences of that situation of the year 2009 that this government has found. As far as the risk is concerned, the budget does not increase. I've already told them to increase, and when they recognize that it increases by 50%, they tell me, there are more people who need the risk. Of course, Mrs. Gallego!, that's why the Government of the Union is increasing the risk budget to meet people who need social inclusion income in our community. [[Applause]] It's funny, they're asking us to reduce the dropout rate. What we don't know is what rate we have to reduce, Counselor, whether the one we are currently or what they left behind. Because the ones they left are already well reduced. It must be that theirs seemed good to them and now that the school dropout rate is lower, they're not interested in talking about it. [[Applause]] And they ask that an agreement be signed with universities. I think sometimes we need to read the press a little more, because we all know that we just signed that agreement with universities. They'll understand that we're not going to ask them to sign a new agreement three days later. The PP, according to nationalists, is against the Greeks. We don't understand, Mr. President, what the Greeks want; as much as they tell you, you don't understand. And the Nationalist Block does understand it, and it understands that the Greeks want a nation, which is Galicia, with the right to decide their future. Well, look, no, the Greeks, first, have no identity problems, and second, they want to solve the problem of unemployment, improve their economic situation, be able to take their children to a child's school, be able to have help in paying the receipts of light and be able to have a decent housing, as if offering at the moment. [[Applause]] But the most interesting thing is that for a parliamentary group to solve all the problems of Galicia and all the Galicians and Greeks, it is going to dissolve this Parliament and convene autonomous elections. True, on the first day of the constitution of this legislation, his spokesman went up to this table, because he was the older member, and at that time he was asking to dissolve Parliament on the same day and make some elections. You will understand, Mrs. Díaz, that your proposals... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u58	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u59	...for the future of Galicia we respect them, but, actually, when they say we don't know the needs of the Greeks and for you, that's the priority to solve the problems of our community, the truth is we don't understand it. And look, Mrs. Díaz, I'll go to Ferrol, but have one thing clear: if I go to Ferrol I won't go with you, I'll go with the People's Party candidate, which was the best result and most support has reached in the city.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u61	And if you have to go visit the yards, I'll go with Mr Varela, I won't go with you, I'll make it clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u62	If you think so, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. We shut the doors. Please let us be careful to get the vote flowing and have no problems. We start... sorry, we start with the vote, according to the script of the groups, of the motions for resolutions that have been negotiated. [[Murmurs.]] We begin with the vote on the compromise of proposal No. 19 of the Joint Parliamentary Group and No. 27 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. Voted on draft resolution No. 19 of the G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No 27 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 43; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. Consequently, the text is approved or negotiated with these proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u63	We then vote on the motion for a resolution which is the compromise on proposal No. 20 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Text voting negotiated between G.P. People in Galicia and the G.P.Mixto on draft resolution No 20 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 43; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. Consequently, the text was adopted or negotiated on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u64	We then vote on the motions for resolutions of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Motion for a resolution No 12 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 1; votes against, 42; abstentions, 30. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u65	We voted for motion for a resolution No 13. Motion for a resolution No 13 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 1; votes against, 73. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u66	We are voting on motion for a resolution No 26. Motion for a resolution No 26 from the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 9; votes against, 41; abstentions, 23. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u67	We are voting on motion for a resolution No 38. Motion for a resolution No 38 from the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u68	We are voting on motions for resolutions Nos 3, 4 and 14. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 3, 4 and 14 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u69	We then vote on motions for resolutions Nos 8, 9 and 39. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 8, 9 and 39 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 57. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u70	Finally, we are voting on the rest of the joint motions for resolutions. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. Mixed, except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u71	We then vote on the motions for resolutions of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Motion for a resolution No 9 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u72	We then vote on motions for resolutions Nos 6, 31 and 10. Here we had a mistake between point 2 and point 3, and we voted on 6, 31 and 10. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 6, 10 and 31 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u73	We then vote on motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 3 and 23. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 3 and 23 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u74	And finally, we are voting on the rest of the BNG's proposals. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Nationalist Block, except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u75	We then vote on the motions for a resolution by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We started with the first of the votes, proposal number one. Motion for a resolution No. 1 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u76	We voted for proposal No. 4. Vote for draft resolution No. 4 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u77	We voted number seven. Motion for a resolution No. 7 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u78	We are voting on motion for a resolution No. 10. Motion for a resolution No 10 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u79	Number 17. Motion for a resolution No 17 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u80	Proposal No. 18. Motion for a resolution No 18 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u81	Proposal number 30. Motion for a resolution No 30 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u82	Proposal number 32. Motion for a resolution No 32 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u83	Proposal No. 34. Motion for a resolution No 34 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u84	We voted for number 38. Motion for a resolution No 38 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u85	We voted number three. Motion for a resolution No 3 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 9; votes against, 58; abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u86	Let's vote number 15. Motion for a resolution No 15 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 41; abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u87	We voted number 25. Motion for a resolution No 25 from the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 58; abstentions, 1. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u88	We voted number 31. Vote for draft resolution No 31 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u89	We are voting on motions for resolutions Nos 8 and 22. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 8 and 22 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u90	We voted for proposals Nos 2, 19 and 33. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 2, 19 and 33 of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u91	And we voted for the rest of the AGE proposals. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Gaga de Left alternative, except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u92	We are voting on the proposals of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Let's start with motion for a resolution number one. Motion for a resolution No. 1 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26 votes against, 48. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u93	We voted for proposal number 2. Motion for a resolution No 2 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u94	We vote number 24. Motion for a resolution No 24 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u95	We voted number 25. Motion for a resolution No 25 from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 25 votes against, 41; abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u96	We voted number 28. Motion for a resolution No 28 from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u97	We voted for motions for resolutions Nos 18 and 40. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 18 and 40 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u98	We voted on motions for resolutions Nos 14 and 26. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 14 and 26 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 25 votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u99	We voted for numbers 27 and 34. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 27 and 34 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u100	Finally, we voted on the rest of the Socialist Group's proposals. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Socialists, except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u101	Finally, we are voting on the motions for resolutions of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. Let's start with proposal number four. Vote for draft resolution No. 4 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 43; votes against, 25; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u102	We voted number seven. Motion for a resolution No. 7 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u103	We voted number nine. Motion for a resolution No 9 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 10; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u104	Let's vote number 11. Motion for a resolution No 11 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 24 with 9 abstentions. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u105	We voted for number 14. Motion for a resolution No 14 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67; votes against, 1; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u106	We voted number 26. Motion for a resolution No 26 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31; abstentions, 2. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u107	We vote number 34. Motion for a resolution No 34 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 24 with 9 abstentions. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u108	We voted for number 36. Vote for draft resolution No 36 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 43; votes against, 24 with abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u109	Let's vote number 37. Motion for a resolution No 37 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 49; votes against, 1; abstentions, 24. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u110	We voted for number 38. Motion for a resolution No 38 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 31; abstentions, 1. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u111	We voted for number 39. Motion for a resolution No 39 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 24 with 9 abstentions. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u112	We then vote on number 6. Motion for a resolution No 6 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 16; abstentions, 17. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u113	We then vote on number 24. Motion for a resolution No 24 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 15; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u114	We then vote on motions for resolutions Nos 22 and 40. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 22 and 40 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u115	Let's vote numbers 1, 19 and 32. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 1, 19 and 32 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31; abstentions, 2. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u116	We voted on motions for resolutions Nos 21, 23, 25, 29, 33 and 35. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 21, 23, 25, 29, 33 and 35 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 43; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u117	We then vote on proposal No. 8. Vote for draft resolution No 8 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u118	Let's vote number 16. Motion for a resolution No 16 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u119	Finally, we are voting on the rest of the People's Group's proposals. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. People in Galicia, except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-16-DSPG125.u120	The vote will be closed and the agenda will be closed. Good morning, thank you all very much.
