ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, please. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament. No inaccuracies have been justified and, therefore, we are on the agenda, with point 1. Debates and votes by the Ditame and the motions for resolutions adopted by the non-legislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia on the work plans for 2013 and 2014
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u2	The Ditam of the control reports on the public sector in Galicia corresponding to the work plans for 2013 and 2014 recommends the approval of the general accounts of the Autonomous Community of Galicia corresponding to the 2011 and 2012 years and incorporates thirteen motions for resolutions which were adopted in committee and which are now put to the debate and vote. We therefore begin with the presentation of the commission's dictation. The President of the Commission has the floor for relations with the Council of Auditors, Mr Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. In my capacity as chairman of the Standing Committee, which is not legislated to relations with the Council of Auditors, and in relation to the public sector monitoring reports relating to the work plans of the years 2013 and 2014, it is necessary to inform the House that the previous reports entered on 3 November last year and that, after studying them, as well as the proposals of the various parliamentary groups, in particular...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u5	...five proposals submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group in connection with the 2013 Work Plan and, even so, five other proposals in relation to the 2014 Work Plan, the twenty-two work plans by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the ten proposals by the Gaga de Left Alternative Group and the sixteen proposals by both the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, the statement nominated for the effect issued the corresponding report and the motions for resolutions, on which this body was delivered on 26 March. It incorporates the motion for a resolution originally tabled with paragraph 1 by the People's Parliamentary Group, for the approval of the General Account for the financial year 2011, and paragraph 1, also with an original number, which referred to the approval of the General Account for the financial year 2012. The remaining motions for resolutions were adopted by committee and those now before the debate and the vote are in total thirteen, apart from the two which approve the general accounts. And order in the following way. Draft resolution No. 1, originally number 2 of the People's Group, urges the Galician Group to provide detailed information on expenditure operations carried out through payment authorisations with the aim of knowing the final destination of these expenses. Number 2 of the Popular Group, originally number 3, urges the Joint Committee to continue working on the line of anticipation of the surrender of the General Account of the Autonomous Community and Sergas and the Report on the economic and financial activity of public entities dependent on the General Administration of the Autonomous Community. Number 3, originally number 4 of the Popular Group, urges the Galician Group to continue to comply effectively with the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors in its monitoring reports. Number 4, originally number 5 of the People's Group, urges the Council of Galicia to report annually to the Parliament of Galicia, through the relevant committee, on the action taken to follow up on the recommendations of the Council of Auditors. Number 5, originally also number 5 of the Socialist Group, urges the Galician Council to carry out the necessary actions to properly and adequately recognize the inventory of goods in the self-government sector. Number 6, which originally carried out number 14 of the Socialist Group, calls on the Board of Auditors to carry out a follow-up and control of procurement by the autonomic public sector in the computer system. The number 7, which originally took number 15 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group as well, calls on the Joint Committee to submit, within a maximum of three months, a report on new measures which it considers to be in place to combat corruption and promote maximum transparency of public accounts and economic and financial reports, estimating its costs and an approximation of its actual entry into force, with the participation of the Council itself. Paragraph 8 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, originally calls on the Galician Council to submit, as a matter of urgency, a report on the possible tasks to be entrusted to the Galician Council of Auditors in relation to the prevention and fight against corruption, estimating the costs necessary for the implementation of the proposed measures. Number 9, originally number 5 of the Galga de Left Alternative Group, urges the Galician Board to send all the accounting information required from the Board of Auditors so that an overall vision of the economic activity of the entire public sector of the Autonomous Community can be seen and due compliance with the principle of transparency of public activity can be achieved. Number 10, originally 6 of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, urges the Galician Board to maintain budgetary discipline as it relates to attaching and adjusting, throughout the exercise, the initial budgetary forecasts to the real evolution of the economy and the financing needs of public services. Number 8, originally number 4 of the Galego Nationalist Block, urges the Board to conduct the corresponding actions so that all bodies and entities use the Greek language in their relationship with the Board of Auditors. Number 12, originally also 16 of the BNG, urges the Board of Auditors or requests the Board of Auditors to carry out a monitoring report from the City of Culture Foundation and the Gaiás Foundation. It is recommended that this report be the subject of auditing the financial status of these foundations, analysing whether the activity carried out by the Gaiás Foundation conforms to its foundational purposes and internal standards and evaluates in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, taking into account its founding objectives and spending policies. Finally, in motion for a resolution No 13, originally number 16 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Parliament urges the Union to make public the extraordinary payments to the people, which exceed the concert and which are justified in overcoming concerted health care. There, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the statement and the proposals now being put to the debate and vote by the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Varela. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u7	Good morning, President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to start with my intervention by sending Monica a sympathetic and sympathetic attachment to the worker in Povervisa, who was subjected to gender-based violence this weekend and was admitted to the hospital, at the ICU, in a serious situation. As for the Board of Auditors, after what happens, after this news, one really asks what the policies of the People's Party are in relation to equality, in relation to social justice and in relation to the struggle against all these lacres we have in society. In view of the report of the Board of Auditors, for example, we recognize that the Board of Auditors recognises a situation which has been voted against by the People's Party in this Parliament, as was the situation of absolute illegality in the situation of the House of Pontevedra. Even the People's Party, in this House, refused to support the workers who were dismissed for denouncing corruption. That is the commitment of the Galician Union to the fight against corruption. But we can also talk about the situation of dialysis in the report of the Board of Auditors, where it speaks of lack of control, lack of inspection, lack of reasons for privatization, lack of justification for the social interest of privatizations or even the economic interest of privatizations, as well as the lack of minimum criteria of quality or verification of them. We are going to give the report an unfavorable vote to the adoption of the accounts 2011 and 2012, but we are going to adopt the resolutions that it had to adopt, although, consequently, we understand that there is no commitment on the part of the People's Party and Government to comply with the Council's resolutions, its recommendations, since in its text, the text adopted, it makes it continuing to comply, when the Board itself says in its report that the Board repeatedly violates the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. So, for example, he rejects some of the recommendations that were made in the 2003 activities, such as the transparency of public accounts, ending with the practice of transferring shares from one account to another, or pre-assessing the eligibility of the public-private collaboration model, two things that the People's Party votes against and, therefore, is unwilling to do, although it seems quite logical. The leadership's privatisation effort is thus reflected when it comes to the lack of justification for many of the public-private collaboration contracts. The Joint Group's resolution calling for an end to health concerts, which the Alarmed Board itself says are scandalous, overcoming, for example, in the case of dialysis, Sergas only serves 37% of the hemodialysis, the rest is already in private hands. Nor does it agree to investigate what Póvisa uses the money received by public attention and whether part of them will cover private attention. We also presented a resolution – I believe it is tabled by all groups – to provide the Board of Auditors with more human and material means to carry out its work. Of course, if, in addition, the Council of Auditors is intended to be the body that monitors ethics in the administration and in the fight against corruption, if the People's Party really wants that function to be fulfilled, it is clear that there is no excuse for not providing the Human and Material Accounts Council that it needs for this function. I'm going to finish, Counselor. The People's Party also voted against – and were rejected – all the resolutions that required a commitment from the People's Party to transparency, for example, resolutions requiring that accounts be made public through the website, that the contracts of that public-private collaboration be made public,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u8	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u9	...for example the contract of the new Vigo hospital. I'm out of time. So, nothing else. To say that I hope that this pursuit of transparency and the fight against corruption remains something more than a cartel, and please – and I ask you now, that it has nothing to do with the subject – remove the Ourense cartel, because male violence exists and is there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. In terms of the German Nationalist Block, since no Member is present, it is understood, in accordance with Article 75.1, that they refuse to speak. So, by the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galga de Left has the word Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u11	Well, good morning to all and all. In addition to expressing the solidarity of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group with the recent victim of macho violence in Vigo, we cannot fail to remember on one day as today, on April 14th, that on April 14th, also Tuesday, in 1931 the Republic was commemorated, in an attempt to contribute and incorporate transparency, democratic regeneration and freedom to our country, something closely linked with the Board of Auditors, that in its monitoring reports, within the 2013-2014 work plan, it finds a tremendously harsh reality for Galicia, subject to a genuine accounting disaster by the Government of Galicia. Or, more specifically, in the control report on Galician public debt, it is evident that the reality that we are walking towards a vertiginous precipice that, in addition to the public debt of Galician citizens, is not, of course, providing better living conditions for Galician citizens. The said report, the specific debt report, collected that between 2009 and 2013 Galicia's public debt increased by EUR 5.177 million, reaching EUR 9.131 million in that year. We're facing an increase of 130% of the debt, the average annual 27% ratio. We are therefore faced with the increase in the debt of Galicia's historical series, and in this way Galicia's debt is now 6.8% of GDP to 16.5% of GDP in 2013. This is the Government of efficiency and efficiency in spending. The debt per inhabitant doubled in just five years, from EUR 1,712 per Greek to EUR 3,301 per Greek resident. But more importantly, the Board of Auditors also provides that Galicia's maturity schedule for funding needs will increase its debt by EUR 1,563 million in the financial year 2015 and EUR 815 million in the financial year 2016. We are therefore faced with an absolutely ineffective, inefficient and opaque government in its spending policy. And it's more, on page 42 of this report, to warn you of the Board of Auditors about the insatiability of the autonomous debt. This isn't a ballad matter. Therefore, the level of indebtedness of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in relation to GDP is also above the average of the autonomous communities. That's reality, and that's why the amendments tabled by Alternative Left Galega are what they want to do is to remedy this accounting disaster and this financial disaster. In our first proposal, of course, what we are asking was that credit deviations addressed to the unforeseen and unplanned expenditure programme, namely paragraph 621.B, which increased significantly the cost of education programmes, precisely programme 421 and 422, from which resources were drawn for this purpose. We also propose that credit deviations be avoided at the expense of fundamental services, such as social services and support for dependents, programme 312, which has suffered a spending deviation of more than 5.5 million euros. In our proposal number 3 what we demanded, of course, was that we should look at, that the expenditure recorded as capital expenditure as real investment and not – as it is usually done by the Government of Greece – be carried out as real investment even financial interest, making of course a false accounting that does not reflect the real situation of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u12	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u13	We have also made a number of proposals aimed at adjusting, as far as possible, that of what the Greek Government so strongly claims, of having a financial discipline, but which has a tremendously imprecise degree of execution, as determined by the Board of Auditors. And from our point of view it is mandatory for the German Government to adjust at least to its own budgets, to the planned spending budgets. Finally, we made a number of motions for resolutions so that we could guarantee what we said at first...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u15	...the accounting transparency and cost efficiency, but it wasn't so, they didn't accept it from the German Government, except for two. We, on our part, of course, are going to vote against this dictatorship, because it seems to us that it does not benefit the situation and the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u16	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. You have the floor, Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u17	Thank you, President. We, too, our group, want to join the strongest condemnation of this new episode of gender violence. As we get into the issue that brings us here today, which is the motto of the Board of Auditors, to say that this saying proposes two things. First of all, to approve the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the years 2011 and 2012, to which I have already announced the unfavourable vote of the Socialist Group, on the understanding that these accounts, both in 2011 and in 2012, do not reflect the faithful image of the economic and financial activity of the Galician Union. So, as I tell you, I announce our vote against. The second thing that I propose is the adoption of thirteen resolutions, of the various groups, of four of them from the Socialist Group, which I announce to them that we will vote in favour of all of them, since we believe that all of them will improve the activity of the Board of Auditors and the control it must exercise over the public activity of our community. As I have very little time, I'm going to focus first on our resolutions, which in the first of them we believe it is necessary to have once and for all an inventory of goods from the autonomic public sector. We believe that, in order to make an adequate management of the economic and financial management of our community, one of the fundamental things we have to know is what goods our community owns. The Board of Auditors itself says in his report that he is unknown. So we ask that the Galician Union make, as soon as possible, the so-called inventory. We also understand that we have to control all the contracts that are being made in the computer system, because investments in computer equipment are being dramatically increased lately. We are not against computer investment, nor much less; we believe that computer technology and new technologies have to help improve the management of Galician board, but we do believe that there has to be a report that evaluates the objectives of these computer techniques, as well as the results achieved, in order to improve public services in our community. We also ask that, within three months, a report be made on these new measures for the fight against corruption; that is, the Board itself tells us how it can collaborate more effectively and efficiently to improve the fight against corruption. We have to have transparent public accounts and we also understand that the Board of Auditors can carry out a fundamental task in the fight against corruption. But – I repeat – we believe that within three months a report should be issued in which the Board of Auditors itself tells us what can be the best way in which they can help fight corruption. And we also make another proposal in relation to the fight against corruption that the Board of Auditors can do, because we understand that these functions that the Board of Auditors has to do would have to focus on the fight against corruption and therefore have to have an economic quantification, that is, a cost that would have to assume the Board of Auditors. We, already when it was the budget, presented a series of proposals to provide the Board of Auditors with three million euros so that it could do a fight against corruption and, on the other hand, we also enabled the Business Council to make the necessary budgetary changes for the said fight against corruption; both proposals were discarded. Now if we are accepted by the committee – and I hope that it will also be approved in the plenary – an estimate of the costs to implement these measures against corruption; that is, the Board of Auditors itself will tell us how much these measures will cost. With regard to the positioning in the rest of the resolutions of the other groups, say that we will support them, because it seems to us that, as I said before, they will improve the management of the Council of Galicia. The Joint Group was planning to make public the extraordinary payments to Povervisa that exceed the agreement. It seems fundamental to us that it is known to what extent there is excess of an agreement signed between the Council of Galicia and Povervisa. Also that of the BNG in which it said that it should be used by all public bodies and entities in Greek. We think it's a request that would remain, but that, unfortunately, we think it's more than justifiable. We should also have a monitoring report on the City of Culture. We also share the proposals made by AGE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u19	...–if, I am finished, President–that all the instrumental bodies of the Galician Union present the accounting information. We're seeing that, year after year, the Board of Auditors is telling us that these entities do not present the accounting information to the Board of Auditors. We understand that this should be corrected as soon as possible. And we will also approve or vote in favour of the People's Party's proposals, which, although not very quiet, we understand that we cannot deny ourselves. They are on issues such as bringing economic exercise closer to the account of the Board of Auditors, but, of course, that depends more on this Parliament than on the Board of Auditors itself, or that the Board of Auditors' recommendations are complied with. As I said to them, we will ultimately vote in favour of the resolutions and vote against the General Account. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u20	Thank you very much. People's Group. Mrs Pouso Maneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Well, on the part of our group we regret the episode of gender-based violence and sincerely wish for the recovery of that woman who was assaulted and who is currently undergoing a delicate situation. Well, by focusing on today's issue, we also regret that the representatives of the Nationalist Block Galego are not here, when we believe it should be their obligation to be at the parliamentary headquarters right now by defending those motions for resolutions to improve all the processes of public management in the Greek economic sector. [[Applause]] On the part of the People's Party, which we must thank and highlight the importance of the independent work carried out by the Council of Auditors, directed, ladies and gentlemen, in improving that efficiency in the economic management of the Greek public sector. We have just heard the statement by the chairman of the Board of Auditors, in which he explained the motions for resolutions adopted last February, in the work plans for the year 2013-2014, in which the economic and financial activity of the years 2011 and 2012. Our group, ladies and gentlemen, will approve the general accounts of the years 2011 and 2012, and will approve those accounts because, as stated in the plenary session of the Council of Auditors, it is stated that the General Account of the Autonomous Community reasonably reflects the economic and financial activity developed in the years 2011 and 2012. They also point to progress in the demands of the Board of Auditors in the declarations of previous years with regard to the integration into the budgetary area of revenue and expenditure of all public sector entities. Improvements are reflected in the memory produced by public agencies. The 2012 budget result, in terms of national accounts, met the planned deficit target after the adjustment made by the General Intervention of the State Administration. The remaining consolidated treasury of the Administration, autonomous agencies and agencies is positive in 2012. The indebtedness, ladies and gentlemen, complies with the quantitative limits set by both the Galician Parliament in the Budget Act of 2012 and the annual indebtedness programme agreed by the Ministry of Business and Public Administration; the financial burden was 10.5%, well below that set limit, which is marked at 25% within LOFCA; and the failure to fully allocate debt to capital expenditure is covered by the provisions of Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. In the 2012 fiscal year, the commitments of future spending of the General Administration have come down; i.e., the Government of the United Nations fulfils, not only the objectives of having a solvency economy, but – the most important – with the operation and maintenance and increase of public services to our citizens, always prioritising the most important, who are people, and especially those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability, and this, ladies and gentlemen, was clearly appreciated if we observed the execution of the budget of expenditure in the areas of health, education and social services. Our group believes that, in addition to the work plans already provided for and in the light of the monitoring reports submitted by the Board of Auditors, we consider it necessary to extend these forecasts to the motions for resolutions. The main objective is to improve transparency and control, seeking to find a greater effectiveness of reports prepared by the external control body; on that line are guided by the resolutions of our group. The motion for a resolution tabled by opposition groups was also incorporated into the motion for a resolution, a total of 9 additions, which you may find to be scarce, but it is true that motion for a resolution number 4 in our group is a generic proposal that encompasses most of the actions made by opposition groups, which is to continue to demand compliance with the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors. Tell them too, ladies and gentlemen, that, since the adoption of this presentation report to this day, progress has been made. Since February, there has been progress on the part of this group and on the part of the president of the Union in both the prevention of corruption and the improvement of transparency. The Parliament of Galicia has entered the Proposal for a Reform Act of Law 6/1985, of the Board of Auditors, and other rules for the prevention of corruption. We are waiting for them, ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary debate on this proposal. Then you will have to make your contributions to the adoption of a fundamental instrument...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u23	...to prevent corruption. This group will continue to work on the development of regulations that provide the Government with maximum transparency, greater external control of the Government, ensuring greater citizen participation in the improvement of the representative democracy system and leaving without a chance those who intend to defraud using politics for their own interests. We regret, ladies and gentlemen, that opposition groups do not clearly bet on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u25	...to push all actions aimed at achieving a better system, which, no doubt, is what most citizens want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pouso. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we begin with the vote on the dictatorship. We vote. Vote of the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector referred to in the 2013 and 2014 work plans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 26. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u27	We then vote on the motions for resolutions adopted by the committee, which, if I do not say otherwise, we can group them together on the basis of the proposals tabled by the various parliamentary groups or we can vote on them together. If you think so, we shall vote first of all on proposals Nos 1, 2, 3... [[Ask Mrs Gallego Calvar for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs Gallego? Give a voice to Mrs. Gallego's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u28	Thank you, President. I don't have it here right now, but I think I remember that motion for a resolution No. 1 of the People's Group, which is the adoption of the General Account, which we want to vote on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u29	No, no, the General Account has just voted, it's the dictatorship; it's motions for resolutions. We then voted first of all on proposals Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 from the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Yeah? All of them? Well, we all vote if they think so. We are voting on proposals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, corresponding to all the different parliamentary groups. We vote. Voting of motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia referred to in the 2013 and 2014 work plans. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u30	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2 of legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. People of Galicia, amending Law 8/2013 of 28 June on roads of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u31	Mr. Alejandro Gómez Alonso, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, has the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Environment, Territory and Infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen. As an illustrious former Territorial Policy Advisor of the Galician Union, the late Mr. Cuña Crespo, the infrastructure is for the patients and they are also for the tenaces. And precisely with that patience and tenacity, the Galician People's Party has always developed and defined its public works policies, knowing that these are not an end in itself, but a means of advancing the quality of life of citizens and the competitiveness of our companies. And so, ladies and gentlemen, with patience and tenacity, this political formation, from the different areas of responsibility that the people of Galicia have given us, we have always had clear which steps and priorities to achieve the progress that our country needs, and so we have shown it in almost thirty years of autonomy, beginning with the former Government of Fraga and initiating the first modernization processes of our country and the first road plans. Then we continue to defend our policies since the opposition to the two-party government, which was characterized by the paralyzing of the main constructive projects that had left the former Government of the People's Party in motion. And we are continuing, ladies and gentlemen, with the current Government Feijóo, to consolidate the second process of transformation of our autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, at these three stages there is a common denominator, marked because they were all led by different leaders or leaders responsible for our political training. The result is that, under that mark, the People's Party brand in Galicia, Galicia today counts on one of the most important and modern road networks in Spain and Europe, since we always execute them with the right planning instruments. But, ladies and gentlemen, this modernizing impulse has almost always had a legislative backing adapted to the Greek reality, and that's why, with the first Road Law of 1994, we managed to regulate different aspects of our road services, by means of rules that met the technical demands of their time and the demands of citizenship, and so our assessment of this law of the year 94 is very positive, since, over 20 years since its entry into force, it has been shown as an effective tool under which a safer and more capable road network has been developed. Nevertheless, we would also like to stress that, years later, like today's road engineering advances, as well as the need to resort to other instruments to finance the execution of infrastructures, have made it necessary to make several timely changes to the original text of the 1994 Law, which, together with the legislative changes of other basic aspects, such as public procurement legislation, the management of the territory or the creation of the Galician Infrastructure Agency itself in 2011, have led to the result that the current Government has decided to present road regulations adapted to the realities that we are living in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of this need was the approval of the current Road Law of 2013, a law which was, by course, prepared by the very technicians of the Directorate-General for Infrastructure and which was submitted to the hearing of the main administrations, organizations and associations linked to road mobility. And that's how we managed to have a clearer and more modern legislation to achieve better management of our road network, but also, ladies, more efficient for citizens of our country, since it offers greater transparency by improving the procedures of citizen control over road projects, increasing the projects that should be subject to public information processing; reducing the administrative burden on certain authorisations, since it eliminates the requirement to apply for authorization around urban tracts of roads, outside the street public domain area; allowing more awareness of those affected by the works, enabling the Administration to return directly to the goods affected by the works of the roads and downloading its owners or generals of that obligation; and moreover, it also provides greater legal certainty to the citizen, as it homogenises the distances to which the building line is established on conventional roads. But, ladies and gentlemen, as perfection does not exist, the Galician People's Party, through its parliamentary group, has considered it appropriate that this law, which is innovative and which is functioning satisfactorily, is also likely to be improved through the killings and clarifications of the text. And so today we are pushing and initiating a debate on these drafting changes of certain articles, changes that, as always, we do in a coordinated manner with the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, to add some drafting corrections to the amendment of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives we intend to achieve with this amendment are three. The first is to strengthen legal certainty for citizenship; the second is to simplify and speed up administrative procedures; and the third is to exploit road public domain more efficiently, improving the compatibility of protection of this domain with the economic activity supported by roads. And for this reason, with this bill, what we propose is precisely to promote the development of a proper technical regulation, which optimizes and facilitates the management of the Greek roads, for example, in the design of accesses, paths or firms, and that they are adapted to the territorial and physical reality of our autonomous community. As you will know, the application of state rules makes it very difficult to develop economic activity on the Greek roads, for example the installation of petrol stations, regulations which, of course, are also demanded by the mayors to be able to meet the requests they receive in the municipalities by their neighbours or businesses that want to be installed around our roads. But also, ladies and gentlemen, we will facilitate the city hall's own activities, such as the installation of landmarks, information houses or temporary facilities such as terraces, something especially relevant in urban crossings. We will also better protect the street public domain, including as a violation the spills on the sidewalks and hinder impunity in the case of infringements committed by legal persons, so that they are also identified as the subsidiary responsible for them. We will simplify and speed up administrative procedures, for example in updating road catalogues and road inventories, and we will encourage voluntary restoration of altered physical reality in sanctioning procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the voluntary restoration of physical reality is concerned, it is a clearly favourable change to citizenship, since most of the road infringements are committed without the offender being aware that he is committing an infringement and, consequently, it usually restores the altered physical reality immediately. So, with the current change we're discussing today, we're going to approve a 75% discount on the amount of the penalty. But, ladies and gentlemen, the issues relating to authorizations are of the most interest to citizens, along with the use of roads. Therefore, what is involved in this amendment is that in the case of renewals the maximum period of authorisations is still ten years, but extendable up to twice more. Ladies and gentlemen, another important aspect that we reinforce with this bill is legal security for citizenship. To that end, we reformulate or complete the editorials of some articles so that their meaning is clearer. This affects the definition of terms such as "footing" or "crossing", for the purposes of final approval of road projects and preliminary drafts, for consideration of urban use in expropriatory files, for authorised uses or for administrative decentralization in road management. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these objectives which involve a timely modification of some articles of the law will be achieved by completing the definition of footwear, eliminating the inconsistencies between the definition and the classification of travesties, improving the wording of the paragraph concerning the effect of the final proclamation of preliminary drafts and road projects, amending the regulation on the possibility of separating the expropriation of land from urban use, adapting the wording of the paragraph concerning the notification of the resolution of authorisation dossiers, of course deleting the residual clause of minor infringements and correcting the typification of the very serious infringement. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a proposal to amend the Road Law to improve the application of its contents, because we understand that all those issues that have been arising and that have been recompiled in the application of the vigilant law are those that are included in the current non-law proposal. And that's exactly why we're improving the writing of some of your articles to avoid different and varied interpretations that harm Galician citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also know from the majority group of the House that you will never support these changes and that with this new refusal you will be portrayed, once again, as the political parties that always go to the riot of the People's Party of Galicia, because, gentlemen, as much as you care, all the initiatives to lead this country always come, come and come from the hands of the People's Party of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u33	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u34	Thank you, President. In fact, I will give my vote against this coat of hair that the People's Party presents to us, but I don't think that the opposition is going to agree on always going neither the gossip nor the counter-fraud of the People's Party, it's just that the People's Party is unable to reach agreements with anyone. Its absolute majority allows you to literally approve what you want, and this is how it acts, without ever giving in or out to the opposition's arrivals. In the explanatory statement – I will explain why we are going to vote against this amendment of the law of 2013, because it is nothing else – of this bill, the People's Party says textually: "This new legal text has shown a satisfactory adaptation to the particularities that present Galician road networks, and since its entry into force the mechanisms for their planning, projection, construction and exploitation through the use of legislative innovations that it incorporates." And after reading the entire bill one asks: where is that satisfaction of adaptation?, where is that adaptation?, what are those important changes? Because really when you finish reading the text of the bill you realize that little more ortographic corrections are virtually necessary, and, yes, a big bet again for privatization or public-private collaboration. We would like to know what were the satisfactory consequences of the changes introduced in the law of 2013, which was what improved and the enthusiasm with which this law of 2013, was defended when it was adopted with its votes only in the plenary session of June 25, two years ago. Everything's still intact; you're still excited about Galician road laws, and that's what they're done a shame and they don't respond to the mobility needs of our country at all. What is clear – as the explanatory statement says – is that it is necessary to point out several aspects of the law: to promote the development of own technical regulations that optimizes and facilitates the management of the Greek roads, facilitates the activities of the municipalities themselves – small brands, information boxes – to protect the public domain by road, including as an infringement the greens on the outskirts... Is this really what innovates the law, something so important that it will improve the mobility of the Greeks and the Greeks, which will improve the quality of our roads? Honestly, what I think is that this law comes here today because we're in the election campaign, because it's something I wouldn't need or go through here, since it's not going beyond some almost orthographic change. "Simplify and speed up administrative procedures." I don't think that's a question I have to deal with here either, a question of internal functioning. "Strengthening legal security for citizenship," well, we'll talk, when the amendments come, about how this is intended. And finally, it is necessary to clarify, regulate and harmonise the terminology and the content of Law 8/2013. I mean, there's not a single really important reason, no reason that matters to the Greeks and the Greeks, no reason that justifies the treatment of this bill today. The law that imposed on us in 2013 according to you was the great wonder that was going to solve all the problems. They said they would solve the problems, that you were the best managers, and it turns out now we've met that it wasn't so wonderful. It seems wonderful that it will be from now on that you approve these changes. What the People's Party says is that the technical arguments justifying the Road Law of 2013 were nothing more than a smoke curtain to conceal the real goal of the People's Party to further open the doors to privatization and to the beaches. Neither technical rigs nor cat rags, hats to privatize quickly with the famous public-private collaboration, as is the case with Vigo's new hospital or the highway to the Costa da Morte; benefits for large companies, camouflaging debt, deferring payment in many years and mortgageting the future of generations to come, as the Board of Auditors has warned. That's why the problem, the important thing, is not this law reform, which is little more than hiding the errors of haste by establishing a legislative delegation so that the Council of Galicia approves a text that clarifys, regulates and harmonises the terminology and the content of the law of 2013, the important thing is what the law of 2013, in whose privatising provisions the People's Party persists. And the scandalous thing is that it almost always coincides that these privatizations are going to stop companies that are quoted in the corruption plot of the People's Party, because privatizations are at the base of the corruption of the People's Party, and this is demonstrated by all the judicial operations that are leaving it uncovered. Here comes the example of the Death Coast bus to illustrate what privatization means: in a work that cost 200 million euros we're going to pay 745 million euros, in addition to its delay in time. The scandal is that the law of 2013 opened the door to the beaches and the fees for the use of roads. And what brings back the reform bill we're talking about today? Not essential, nothing; as far as limiting or avoiding corruption is concerned, nothing. In the specific amendments proposed in the single article of the bill it says: in which it refers to article 8 of the law of 2013 the rural crossings are deleted, but the reason for this is not explained. When referring to Article 9.1, I do not know what the difference in wording is because it seems that it only changes "corresponds" instead of "corresponds", a great change that deserves a parliamentary debate. The reference to Article 9.6 shall be made to the date of 2013, unless the entry into force is the day following the publication of the DOG; another measure which would, of course, have to be discussed in this Parliament. These are very important questions! But since we're talking about changes often, we're going to talk about them when the law really comes to debate, since now we're just talking about the generality of a law that doesn't say anything, beyond correcting errors that occurred in the law of 2013 in haste for its approval. And again this one, just as it happened in 2013, will be approved by the majority mechanics of the People's Party, which doesn't even question whether it is unworthy to present us here today with laws, with problems, with important things that this Parliament must deal with beyond orthographic or drafting issues. I mentioned the three proposals in articles 8 and 9 just to illustrate that the bill is above all a correction of errors and propaganda, taking advantage of that, yes, to make the rural cores of the law disappear and seek advantages for the concessionaires that PP will probably already have in its head. The only proposal for Galician road law that would support would be to have the fight against corruption taken into account, based on the administration's action in the execution and direct management of roads and promoting the rescue of current concessions, which, as it can be seen, have been in many cases closely linked to the corrupt plot of financing of the People's Party. Starting from that, we could reach a consensus. As long as they keep the public resources policy billboard open for private interests and the People's Party will not have the support of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u35	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u36	That is why we are going to vote against the consideration of this bill that basically amends nothing and in no significant way the law of 2013. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. In relation to the Galician Nationalist Block, according to article 75.1, it is understood that it is denied the use of the word for not being found in the House. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u38	Good morning to everyone and to all those who are visiting Parliament. That they have a good impression, though, as far as they're listening, I see it hard. This, Mr. Gómez Alonso, you wanted to wear it solemnly, but it's nothing more than a chapuza, and it would make a laugh if it wasn't for us to be in a place that should be much more serious than what you're showing. Where was your parliamentary group when the law was dealt with year and a half ago, Mr. Gómez Alonso? Where were they? Didn't they know Galicia two years ago? Didn't they know those particularities of Galicia two years ago? Because this law takes effect year and half – not yet – and it turns out it already needs 38 changes. I read your bill. This new legal text in the explanatory statement says: "It has shown a satisfactory adaptation to the particularities of the Galician road network." But, on the other hand, the objective of this amendment is also – among its objectives – to exploit more efficiently the public domain road according to Galicia's territorial peculiarities. That is, on the one hand, it has adapted very well, but on the other hand, changes must be made to adapt it to the particularities. This is a real chapuza; it was a real chapuza. What happened in the year and a half so they have to come here with 38 changes? Then I'll explain. Yes, sir, I'll explain why you're forced to make this bill, and, as they have to, they put other questions that they're interested in getting through the back door. You also talked about the successful infrastructure model developed by the People's Party these thirty years in Galicia. Yes, sir, the infrastructure model characterized by the waste of billions of euros that came from Europe in a country that has three airports that have no rail connection, that has Santiago and Lugo, two of the main cities without rail connection, which has the Bergantiños area without rail connection, etc. The successful infrastructure model you served, that's right, to give a lot of business to friendly companies. That's the common denominator you talked about. Well, less than a year and a half after the entry into force of the Road Law that was approved in 2013, you, at that time, with all the possible pyrops to the law that the then Infrastructure Counsellor Augustine Hernández presented, today, bring a bill amendment with more than 35 amendments, some of them substantial. This gives us an idea of how well-written the law was, surely, in a hurry and running to cover up the inactivity of that counsellor at that time. It also demonstrates its rigour, the rigor of the People's Party, the work of government and parliamentary work. Yes, at that time the People's Party was not very sensitive to the amendments tabled by the opposition, only accepted some. Today, however, it does modify even some of the things we said at that time that had to be modified and that you are forced to change because the State has brought an unconstitutional remedy on an article that I said here repeatedly that it was illegal. Nevertheless, the solution you propose will continue to cause legal insecurity, more legal insecurity. The solution you've been forced to seek is not going to be a solution, and we say it again in anticipation of the results. It was then ignored when we warned of the questionable legality of the unaudited proposal on the expropriation of urbanizable land (Article 28). Time gave us reason. Even the state – as I have said – has presented a resource of unconstitutionality, and now it has to be changed, and as we change that, we raise other issues that we are interested in. The wording of this new article derives from a joint state agreement in the proceedings of the unconstitutional resource, such as Article 28.3. In that agreement, the following was made between the State and the Union: both parties agree that Article 28.3 of the aforementioned Galician Law 8/2013 should be interpreted as meaning that the prescriptive advance refers to the assumptions in which, according to our legal order, an agreement is made with the administering authority and in no case may be construed as being affected or altered by the State rules on soil assessment. But the new writing again raises doubts – and we say it again, and time will give us reason. Article 28.3 applies only to urbanized soil, similar to urban events, classification and categorization, to consolidated urban soil. And the rural core soil, isn't that a particular feature of Galicia, its dissemination of rural core soils? When you have all the services, how do we consider for a valuation of the rural core soil? It'll cause legal insecurity again. This does not solve, once again, the problems of legal insecurity at the time of expropriation. When you're faced with a rural core soil farm with services of all kinds, see if you're not faced with that problem again. I don't want to explain any more technical matters, which I wouldn't give myself time, but I do say that this article 28.3 is still a legal chapuza and that it still pretends to save in expropriations at the expense of people. You also take advantage of it to make the modification in the authorizations. If you approved a year and a half ago that authorisations have to be extendable in four years, what happened in less than two years you come here and propose that these authorisations be extendable ten years, ten, ten, and thirty years? We've changed from four to thirty years in less than two years and nothing happens here. We're very strict! Tell me about it. See how he's changed since then until today for this radical change. This is a radical change. They also take advantage of you to transfer, because it must be that this will not yet be the final... they still have time and they have to know more about Galicia's particularities; they have to think about it more, take their time. And then, on two occasions, they transferred certain exceptions which had to be contained in the law to the regulation. These exceptions are transferred to the regulations so as not to have to be defined in the law. We believe that the regulation should not have innovative capacity, who has to legislate this law, and the regulation should serve to develop legislation. But you leave, hurry to the regulation, so you can change again, because you go with the test-error, trial-error method, because you can come here and pass a bill with the 41 Members who have, without being rude, in addition. So it's going to create more legal insecurity. And for the rest – which I already have two and a half minutes left – I would have to delve in more detail certain aspects that are authentically whimsical. You do not take advantage of this change of law. You were talking about a 21st century model. How can we talk about a 21st century model for infrastructure when it's a law that doesn't take rationalization into account? We're not in the 1980s, we have a network of very well-equipped infrastructures; in such a case poorly thought out, but very well-equipped; now we've got a rationalization of resources. You guys don't have a model change. You want to keep doing miles of roads, millions and millions of businesses, without any rationality, don't introduce a change in the model towards rationalization. They don't talk about climate change, energy consumption reduction, bike transportation, another type of mobility model... They don't talk about it. This is a model adapted to the 21st century, when we go towards a model that should have as its main objective, the reduction of energy consumption. You continue to keep public-private collaboration as a model, which in the previous law, in the law of 94, was only exceptionally, and now you're getting it, giving it a normal level, in which we call it "public risk, private benefit," as it always shows. Here are the costs we pay all of them and the benefits go to a few. We could set a lot of examples, but I don't have time: the highway to the Death Coast or Vigo Hospital too; very good business for businesses, very bad for citizenship. And, of course, extending this model of unsustainable infrastructure economically, environmentally, etc., now, what the pioneers of the People's Party are already considering – Hope Aguirre and Adlaters – is already generalizing the rates for the use of any kind of road. Yes, sir, this is no longer science fiction, it is contemplated by the law itself. We've said it before, it doesn't change. Here's the possibility that tomorrow would be a fee for the use of any autonomic road...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u40	And it's just that it's normal, it's not enough what they collect on the highways that they privatize themselves, like AP-9, it's not enough, we're going to have to pay to get out of the house; when we walk an autonomous road, we're going to have to pay, as you continue to develop this waste model. For example, the model of exemplified wasteland in what they want to do: we had a public highway, the AP-9, it was already sanated in 2003 -- we cured it with money from all over the world -- and suddenly, when it was the jewel of the crown, because it was sold to Sacyr Valahermoso, to the friends, who then sold it to an American company without doing anything to it. Without putting up a square meter of asphalt, they take out a few plusvalies of nearly 2,000 million euros. These are the businesses that the People's Party gives to certain companies. And now we have a private highway, with the fares coming up, we have one of the most expensive fares in the whole state, and the solution to keep us from paying those very expensive fares is to build 100 kilometers of free parallel to it. It's a very rational solution, in the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u42	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u43	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u44	In short, a chapuza that shows how little rigour you've had in the process of this law, and they also keep that private and cost-effective business model. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u45	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The People's Group has just tabled a legislative amendment to amend Law 8/2013, of June 28, of Galicia's roads. Today we are discussing taking this bill into consideration. It must be remembered that Counsellor Hernández had presented such a standard as a modern law, capable of achieving maximum efficiency in the application of road legislation and that he had offered effective solutions to the needs detected since the previous law enacted 20 years ago. With this initiative, what the People's Group really does is to make an amendment to the whole Act 8/2013 of Mr. Agustín Hernández. By the way, it amends Mr Hernández that he joins the airport coordination, where he himself has gone into himself, that of metropolitan transport or even that of industrial soil. Today the People's Group moves on to itself for not listening to the opposition's proposals, and amends Mr. Feijóo's popular government for sending to this House on its day a preliminary draft road law alien to all the arrivals received in the previous processing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a surprising proposal to amend Law 8/2013, which is surprising because, despite the fact expressed in the explanatory statement of the proposal submitted by the People's Group, it all makes us think that the rule comes out directly from the Council of Galicia and the Council of Environment, Territory and Infrastructure. This is the case because, among the justifications, they relate to various changes in administrative procedures; issues which, of course, are from the administration itself where they can best be valued. In the same vein, the proposal expresses the need to reformulate the drafting of several articles in order to make their meaning clearer; a question that has to do with administration itself clearly. To correct this situation – it seems to confirm that it is supplanted – the People's Group presents 41 proposals for amendments to the Road Law affecting 22 articles, of the 76 that have Law 8/2003, and also several provisions. With that, no doubt, the People's Group puts the crane to Mr. Hernández's management as Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser for more than six years. Ladies and gentlemen, Law 8/2013, of 28 June, of Galicia's roads, was approved by the plenary session of the Galician Parliament with the only votes of the People's Group at the plenary session of 25 June 2013. It has therefore been a little more than a year and a half in force. So Mr. Hernández had introduced the draft law, the Government's initiative, with the qualification of a modern, effective law, solving new needs. The opposition groups didn't see it that way, we were sure it was a smoke curtain to cover up the paralysis of the Council and the Government. A bill – another – more directed to fattening the inefficient statistical accumulation of laws than to pretend to be a law with a vocation of permanence in time as a fruit of contributions to the benefit of the community. From the Socialist Group we called for the text to be returned in the debate of amendments to the whole of the then draft road law, and it was at the meeting on 23 March 2013. We ask him to be unfounded, not to be ambitious and to be, moreover, very confused. We call for it to be extremely disregardful of that preliminary draft law with the comings of other administrations and social entities, for example, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself, of the various trade unions, of the Confederation of Employers, of social agents. We also ask for important reports, for example the economic report. And we ask him for legal uncertainties that could lead to his application, so with the consequent legal insecurity for the issuer and for the receiver and the development of the law itself. In addition, in the final debate of the law in this House, the Socialist Group presented 124 amendments and the set of opposition from the opposition groups, we tabled 177 amendments. The generosity at that time of the People's Group made it possible to accept 4.87 % of the amendments of the Socialist Group and 4.54% of all those tabled by the opposition groups. So we said that the preliminary draft submitted by the Government was canned, shielded and, in addition, pre-accepted by the People's Group, which stood in an absolutely waterproof manner with the contributions we made by the political groups. The Government of Galicia and the People's Group, with their only contributions, approved Law 8/2013, of June 28, of Galicia's roads, despite warnings of inexecutable legal insecurity by all opposition groups. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a mistake of the People's Party to approve Law 8/2013, of June 28th, of roads in Galicia, for refusing the arrivals of institutions, social forces, trade union forces, for refusing contributions, the arrivals of opposition political groups, for collecting pre-emptive reports and for refusing judicial reports. It was a mistake for the People's Party to believe that most of them in this House are 100% sure of success. And the People's Party repeats the error by not electing the ordinary procedure of processing. In the processing of the law, they didn't consider the arrivals. In processing the change of law they no longer consider participation. No reports. Where is the legal report to ensure the legality of the amendments they propose? Finally, a law and a change of law dealt with at the expense of citizens. Counsellor, thank you for your presence. It is true that you were not a government when the law was proposed, nor are you a parliamentary group when the amendment of the law is proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u47	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u48	I hope this reality, given the foreseeable failure of the law, does not use it using familiar terms to insinuate that it is not present. You know that Law 8/2013, modified, will be a picture of the law that is modified; we could say that it will be – if I allow the simile – the black image. On the basis of the argument, the Socialist Group only looks positively at the possibility of supporting what would be the derogation from the Road Law, and starting a new process, a new processing process, counting on the competition of the whole society. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u49	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Replica. Drafting Group of the bill, Popular Parliamentary Group. Mr. Gómez Alonso. Give Mr. Gómez Alonso a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fernández, you have already registered in an inquiry in this House that this was an amendment to Mr. Hernández. It is noted that we are on electoral precaution and that Mr. Hernández is the current mayor of Santiago. I want you to know something, Mr. Fernández. The laws and projects of the People's Party are not the authority of any of their leaders. The current Road Law of the Year 2013 is not the Hernández Law, it is the second road law approved by a new cup of leaders of the People's Party; therefore, it is another project of the People's Party. You try to personalize him to see if he gets any political income, and let me tell him he's wrong. And of course we haven't set a whole amendment to our current Road Law. We set up a series of reviews in 76 articles, 3 additional provisions, 3 transitional provisions, 1 derogation and 3 finals. And you know why, gentlemen? Because in the same way that we have carried out, driven and defended our infrastructure policy in almost thirty years of autonomy, as the late Mr. Cook, with tenacity and patience, what you will not want, too, is that the leaders of the People's Party are negatious or blunt, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] And if we approve a law, we try to agree with you – without success – and we see that in its application there are various interpretations that harm the citizens of this country, we, in a responsible way, and as leaders of the People's Party of Galicia, decided that the Popular Parliamentary Group had tabled a bill to amend those articles that avoid different interpretations that harm the neighbours and neighbours of Galicia. Do you want your lordships to give you an example of why we made this political decision, Mr. Fernández? Would you like me to set an example for you? Talk to Mr. Beaster. Ask him how it's possible to threaten a neighbour of the Savigneo who has a work license, who has a license to implant a fence, and you want to place a fine of 10,000 to 250,000 euros. You explain it to this neighbor, you explain it to this neighbor. You tell the technician who decided to threaten her with this fine that's fair. For precisely we have established discounts for these cases in the sanctions of 75%, to prevent technicians of other administrations from abusing the interpretation of the law and harming the neighbors, as is the case with the neighbour of Savinjao. And I'd like you to be interested in this. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for you to conduct a constructive debate on infrastructure, which is impossible, because you have never believed in infrastructures, in your advantages or in your benefits for the neighbours and neighbours of Galicia. Both the Left Galician Alternative and the Mixed Group are the only ones that have been done along this legislation is asking us to cancel the plots. The last of the occurrences presented by an ex-Alternative Left Galician Member is that in Tui-A Guarda, who has three thirds, we eliminated the third two, when the third three is in service and is about to adjudicate the third one. And then they say they're the great know-how of infrastructure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They criticise that we support the technicians of the Galician Infrastructure Agency. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have to support technicians, people who know, not say such absurd things as cancelling Tier 2 of Tui-A Guard, when he's got three truces. [[Murmurs.]] The Galician Nationalist Block, which is away today, which demonstrates... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u51	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u52	...his involvement with Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u53	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u54	...which demonstrates its involvement with Galicia, well, when it talks about infrastructure, the only thing you see is PP funding. Moreover, in the last session he spoke cheerfully about Copasa, and it turns out that in the bipartite he was given more works to Copasa in four years than the People's Party in six years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u55	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u56	That's the result of your infrastructure policy. You talk about that, with this amendment, we only want to benefit companies. But, ladies and gentlemen, if the issue of authorizations is precisely related to service networks, and to raise more fees precisely to large multinationals: Telephone, Fenosa, Natural Gas. The free use of our road networks continues to be guaranteed in chapter III of the law, ladies and gentlemen; Article 30.2 remains unalterable; it is still established that compensatory measures or procedures can be established for users of our highways, and so it is happening in Rande, La Barcala, Puisseros, Val Minor, Carballo and La Coruña; we continue to have the second most important network of roads by surface of Spain and most of it is a free and free network for users of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u58	So we have a baggage about what we did in Galicia, and we're going to keep doing it because we have clear ideas. We invite you to participate in the parliamentary procedure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u60	...on presentation of amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u61	We voted to take account of the proposed legislation of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. Galician people, so as to amend Law 8/2013 of June 28 on Galician roads. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes in favour, 27. The voting is positive. This bill therefore continues its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u62	We continue with item 3 on the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Health Advisor, on his own request, to report on the results of the evaluation of the Sergas Strategy 2014
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u63	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the health adviser, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies. I compare today to this Parliament, and therefore to Greek citizenship, to account for the results of the evaluation of the Galician Health Service Strategy 2010-2014. I have to say, without triumphalism, that it is a privilege to be able to represent here the teams of the Council and the Galician Health Service, both of the central services and of the different management centres, and, above all, the more than 36,000 workers who form Sergas, true protagonists and architects of the results I'm going to report below. Clearly, any organization of the complexity of the Galician Health Service needs to have defined its strategy. So we did in 2010, when we designed the Sergas Strategy 2014: Health at the service of the patient, conceived as a roadmap for the transformation and modernization process of the Galician Health Service towards the new challenges of the 21st century. It was a roadmap developed in a participatory way with professionals at all levels: scientific societies, professional schools, trade union organizations, members of different parliamentary groups and experts from different fields, who approached their visions and suggestions. It's based on four principles. The first is the patient-centred health model, which redirects its strategy towards chronic disease management, guaranteeing patient rights and providing safe and quality care. The second, the recognition and empowerment of the value of professionals. The third, the impetus of innovation and the development of information and communication technologies, for the benefit of health and the health system. And the fourth, the commitment to boost Galicia's competitiveness, contributing to the economic and social development of our community. These targets are developed into 7 prioritized targets, 40 strategic lines and 293 actions. But we're convinced that a strategy, in addition to being feasible, has to be verifiable in its compliance. That is precisely what this assessment responds to, which we present today, in addition to an exercise of transparency with all the Greeks and Greeks, genuine owners of public health. This evaluation was carried out using the following methodology. Each of the 300 scheduled actions was evaluated and their situation was analysed on 31 December 2014, evaluating the actions already performed on that date, partially developed actions and pending execution actions. Of course, I can't tell you at this meeting about the situation of the 300 shares; they can see it in the document, which we're going to hang up today on Sergas's website. But let me tell you that, even if we haven't reached all the goals marked, I sincerely believe that we have been able to move forward in many important respects, and that's why I want to give the most sincere and profound thanks to all the workers and workers of the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, who have made it possible; for everyone, my recognition. These results are the fruit of work, of the common and collective effort that we have been able to take forward in order to give a proper response to the needs of our patients. We were aware, back in 2010, that we were setting very ambitious goals in many areas, but the challenge was worth it: that the Greeks had the best possible health service, but we were also very aware of the difficulties this was going to entail. The complexities inherent in the management of a public service such as the health service, where resources are always scarce, have added the economic difficulties known to all, the toughest crisis period we have in our country, a circumstance that increases the effort, the involvement, the good doing of professionals and managers, patients and citizens, in order to maintain and improve the excellent public health system we have. I sincerely believe that we have achieved it, and then I will underline those most significant actions carried out. The first line of action is the health and demand of citizens. From the organizational point of view, the most impacted action was undoubtedly the creation of the integrated management structure, based on the publication of Decree 168/2010. I believe that almost no one is discussing today the advantages of this organizational model that integrates both levels of care and hospital facilities, improving user accessibility and seeking the best quality of health care. The practical functioning of this organizational model can strengthen the role of primary care, increasing the resolution capacity of this nearest and most accessible level of care for the user, strengthening the comarcas or first-level hospitals, which are closer to citizens as well, allowing the opening of new units. It is also necessary to highlight the actions taken to promote the participation of citizens in the management of Galicia's public health system. A great milestone was the constitution of the Galego Council of Patients in September 2011; we were the first autonomous community to carry it out. Sergas also served as a pioneer in the creation of the Galician School of Health for Citizens. Since its constitutions more than 17,000 users have participated in their presence activities and more than 270,000 accesses have been produced on the website. This is an essential part of guiding the health system to the citizen, because for this it is necessary to improve their training and information. As I defined the strategy itself, the health panorama is changing. We are faced with a different scenario than we had until recently, in which the system focused primarily on the management of acute diseases. The aging of the population, derived among other things from the success of the system itself to improve survival, along with the chronicity of diseases, force us to change. Hence, the importance of the actions developed for the integration of socio-health care, with the identification of specific needs in the Socio-Health Care Framework Plan presented in 2013, with the establishment of the Interdepartmental Commission for Socio-Health Care in Galicia, with the incorporation into the integrated care procedures of the social aspect of the patient, with access to Ianus of social workers and healthcare professionals of assisted residences of a public character, with the development of the pharmaceutical care model and socio-health care residences, which is currently being extended to close to a hundred centres and to more than 11,000 users. In this line, it should be noted that in July 2013 Galicia was recognised by the European Commission as a reference region for active aging based on our good practices. As a fundamental element of the Greek strategy of integral attention to chronicity, a process of population risk stratification was carried out, which was presented in 2014, and which allows individual identification of the state of health at the level of complexity of each of the nearly 2.5 million Greeks aged 14 years. Thanks to this tool and all the clinical information that exists in our electronic clinical history, we know that about 800,000 Greeks have two or more chronic diseases. The importance of promoting healthy lifestyles and developing disease prevention policies is also evident. Within these activities, we want to highlight vaccination programmes. As you know, Galicia moved forward in this field to the rest of the autonomous communities with the anti-nemococcal vaccination of newborns. From the evaluation of the first two years of the implementation of this program as a pilot in Galicia, with coverage of more than 93%, it is estimated that 400 cases were avoided, that of these 400 cases more than 300 of them had resulted in hospital admission and that 15 deaths of children were avoided with this program. The screening program, with the implementation of the early detection program for colon cancer, started with a pilot in the Ferrol area and will progressively extend to all of Galicia with the incorporation into the integrated management structure program of Ourense this month, and of course continuing with the prevention programs for breast cancer, neonatal deafness, as well as those of tuberculosis and sexually transmitted infections, including HIV. Also with the preparation and implementation of the plan for the prevention of childhood obesity in Galicia, the Xermola Plan, which has already been presented in this Parliament. Without forgetting other initiatives to improve citizens' accessibility, such as the People's portal with life, the theme site for healthy lifestyles, which has already surpassed the 22,000 followers, one of the most followed portals of all health services and which confirms that it is an effective and appreciated channel. Within the strategic lines framed in this first objective, it is also agreed to provide comprehensive care to specific groups that need differentiated attention: elderly patients, children, women and mental health, introducing sensitivity to different needs into the system. In mental health, new care devices in Santiago, two psychiatric rehabilitation units, infant-juvenile hospitalization and food disorder unit have been initiated in the structural and organizational field. In Pontevedra and Ferrol opened the day hospital. In Lugo, the reorganisation of resources was completed and Calde's hospital was put into operation. In Ourense, we carried out the transfer of patients from Toén psychiatric hospital to Piñor. All the integrated management structures of home care continuity and hospitalization teams have been provided. But we also consider it necessary to highlight the implementation since 2010 of the Nise project, in collaboration with the Federation of Family and People Associations with Mental Disease in Galicia, for the fight against the stigma of this disease, a program in which nearly 30,000 people participated. When directed to children, highlight the impulse of the school alert program, directed towards children from 0 to 16 years of age who are suffering from pathologies that may be decompensated. 2.780 children are enrolled in this programme and can thus benefit from better coordination between the teacher and the health emergency centre 061. Finally, a strategic line in development, which is the Guarantee Act, adopted by Parliament of Galicia in December 2013. It is a normative instrument that will drive the transformation of the system, giving citizenship greater decision-making capacity, protagonistism and guarantees. Following the entry into force of the pre-instruction decree, and the imminent publication of the second opinion and free choice, in the coming months, the maximum waiting times will be published, already in their final processing phase. This is about the first line. In the second line, which is quality and safety, we will begin by highlighting the development and implementation of integrated care processes, a new model of work specifically designed in the patient. They come to ensure the care continuity between health centres and hospitals within the integrated management model. Ten integrated care processes are currently being implemented, developed by working groups formed by different professionals from the Galician Health Service; about 200 of our workers participated in their development. But probably one of the biggest changes in our organization was the incorporation of the severity of the processes as a criterion of waiting times management, giving priority to patient care according to their health status. In this field, we must thank scientific societies for their efforts, what they are doing and what they must continue to do in defining criteria that help to mark priorities. As you know, this change has been carried out through the control of surgical waiting times through the three levels of priorities and setting different targets according to the different levels and priorities, through the implementation of the rapid pathways – eleven are already implemented at present – rapid pathways that are allowing us to fulfil the commitment to care for patients with suspicion of severe pathology in less than fifteen days, and also with the Manchester screening system in the hospital emergency service, which classifys care needs at five levels of priority and allows us to guarantee, even in times of great care, the quality and safety of the most serious patients. Galicia has a Palliative Care Plan, which at the time was the first developed in the National Health System and which establishes a model based on hospital units of palliative care, in the Hado – hospitalization at home – and in primary care professionals. Nearly 6,000 patients –5,716– were attended by Sergas in 2014 in the home hospital program, which means a 32% increase in the number of patients who attended in 2009. It is also necessary to highlight the special effort and commitment to promote the culture of clinical safety in the daily activities of professionals, by implementing safe practices that reduce the incidence of adverse events, by performing, inter alia, the following actions: the implementation of the system of record of adverse effects – called Sinasp – computerized, in all centres of care in Galicia, the implementation of the system of identification nai-neno and of patients in emergencies and the development of the plan of humanization of pediatric areas, the certification of various services and units by UNE 17.003, patient safety and risk management, the implementation of the registry system of assessment of pain and zero tolerance to child pain, the program of improvement in safety and care such as zero bacteremia, zero pneumonia, hand hygiene or the prevention of falls. It is clear that the risk is inherent in most clinical activities. Therefore, risk management must be present in the policies, processes and practices of our organization. Improving security is supposed to improve the quality of care, and that's precisely why, because we're talking about quality, we're developing the corporate model of integral quality management. Also speaking of quality, it is essential to refer to the program of polymedicated patients. Practically 75,000 patients consumed more than ten different medicines a day in Galicia, and of them, almost 10,000, more than fifteen drugs a day. The program now allows us to have controlled more than 34,000 patients who consume more than ten medications daily. Therefore, it is necessary to continue monitoring therapeutic adherence and to control the proper and safe management of treatments. We must not forget that, according to data from the studies of different health systems and Sinasp itself, medication problems are the most frequent cause of adverse effects on our organization. The third line is that of professionals, our main asset. This strategic objective required the development of a staff policy that would bring the needs of the system and professionals, mainly in labour stability, training, training, development and professional promotion. For the first of these objectives, ensuring stability in the employment of health professionals, the regular call for selective procedures was made for the acquisition of the condition of fixed statutory staff in the various categories. 4,357 statutory personnel units have been processed during the supervision of this strategy. By the end of 2014, 81% of Sergas workers have a stable employment bond, five points more than in 2009. It has also been working on the approval of the first two human resources management plans, the current one in force until 2017. They are global planning tools designed to suit the size, distribution, stability, training and training of professionals. Another of our objectives was to incorporate new technologies into human resources management, to simplify and speed up the processing of different procedures. A fundamental step was the meeting point between the professionals and Sergas and the center of all selection and supply processes. At the end of 2014, 139,000 resumes were managed from the e-file platform. Bibliosaude, our virtual library, is an absolutely effective tool to manage the bibliographical resources of the Greek health system and to facilitate access to the resources of scientific information in health sciences to all Sergas professionals. We started from a traditional model of libraries located in hospitals, with specific places and times and reduced consultation. They now have access to digital services 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, professionals from all hospitals, health centers, peripheral services, public foundations and Sergas retired professionals. I think the numbers support it: more than 14,600 registered users, with access to electronic magazines from all the specialties – more than half a million article downloads per year – access to electronic books, bibliographic databases, etc. Specially important in the training of professionals through their information in the field of health sciences are the various programs developed through the FEGAS, such as the Advanced Medical Simulation School, for the acquisition or improvement of different professional skills, 128 courses and 1,503 assistants. The Galician School of Sanitary Directors, a determined bet on the professionalization of our directors, 522 assistants. The Divulge training programme, based on the transmission of professionals to others of all kinds of experiences and good practices. Or the Virtual Class, accessible to all professionals of the Galego Health Service. More than 100,000 plazas in presence or teleformation activities have been covered during the vigil of this strategy. In addition, it began with the use of new communication technologies, with programs such as P2P, where professionals share information in a multimedia way to improve and learn with practical and immediate knowledge. 115 professionals participated in the development of 104 training videos available in Youtube, which have already had over 62,000 visits since May 2014. Or the itinerary of health research, based on the same principle of exchange of experiences and knowledge among professionals, with more than 172,000 visits. The fourth line, information and communication technologies. One of the most important and necessary aspects to be able to provide good service and quality medical care is to have the necessary information for both clinical and health decisions and management decisions. We must be proud that Galicia is currently a reference to the rest of the National Health System as regards the development of information and communication technologies, to respond not only to the areas of diagnosis and treatment, but also to those related to prevention, research, planning and management. Electronic clinical history is probably the best exponent of this. Today is an absolutely consolidated tool in its use and a model in the integration of all care centers and levels. And also the electronic recipe, developed in Galicia with the collaboration of the pharmaceutical schools, which allows a more agile pharmaceutical service, but above all safer. It should also be noted that the deployment of electronic revenue has allowed the application of the system approved by the Galician Union, which has limited its continued approach when the citizen reaches the top set by the regulations, which has prevented the Greek pensioners from having to forward 14 million euros in the year above what they were supposed to be. Reiterate: Galicia is the only autonomous community that has implemented it from the very first moment for all its pensioners, thanks to having this tool available. And the development of ICTs also enabled, for example, to promote the interrelationship between professionals through e-interconsultation, to address cooperatively the health problems of patients, without the need for them to move, thus even reinforcing the role of primary care and facilitating accessibility. And also the telephone consultation, which is reaching a great deal of satisfaction for both professionals and patients. The fifth line, the health sector as a value creator. In this field, it is clear how strategic we attach to health innovation in our system. It is both an innovation by introducing new services or organizational changes and by introducing new technology products associated with services. We constitute the innovation platform, based on an open innovation model, which is an initiative that makes professionals available an instrument to promote their participation in innovation projects and manage their results, and also a tool for professionals to be able to participate in the implementation of improvements that contribute to making our services more effective and efficient; that is, patient-centred innovation. This year 2015 will be the end of the two major innovative projects: Hospital 2050 and Innova Saúde, jointly endowed with 90 million euros of the R & D+i operational plan of the technology fund for the benefit of companies. This is an important issue, of particular importance to our autonomous community, because it is funding for companies by the European Union, and where we – the Sergas – could participate precisely on the basis of their dynamic and innovative capacity. Hospital 2050, with 9 subprojects, will allow for improvements to the hospital of the future. And Innova Saúde, with 14 subprojects, looks for solutions for new health care models. Of these two projects, I want to highlight two aspects. On the one hand, the high participation of our professionals, over 200 people involved in these 23 projects, and it is thanks to all these professionals for their participation, but also to the professionals involved in the Galician Council, the Galician Health Service, health personnel, those working in recruitment, technology and legal advice units, among others institutions, companies, universities, technological centres, as well as the Ministry of Economics and Competitiveness, who also participates actively in this project. And also the national and international reference position that Galicia has reached in the issue of innovative public procurement, through which several of these projects are being developed. Another important theme for the integration of social, environmental and economic sustainability values is the development, in collaboration with the Inega, of the Comprehensive Energy Efficiency Plan, whereby we are incorporating in all tenders the requirement of maximum energy efficiency. We were the first health service to face a comprehensive plan for our centers, which is already affecting 20 hospital buildings. Through these plans, improvements and renovations are being faced, with an estimate of 15 million euros of investment. It's reducing the cost of energy supply, with an estimate of 4 million euros per year. Forest biomass is now being incorporated as a source of energy in hospitals, which will allow me to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – an emission reduction of more than 35,000 metric tons per year of CO2 is estimated. Furthermore, the consumption of biomass pellets can generate direct and indirect jobs and facilitate the cleaning and management of important mountain areas. The sixth strategic line is rigorous and efficient management. Clearly, rigorous resource management is not only an object of this strategy, but must be an objective of any public fund manager. It's also a very important and horizontal goal, which is present in many of those already commented on, and it's not at all incompatible with them. One example in rigorous and efficient management is the search for best prescription and drug dispensation practices, and one of its challenges is the use of generics, which in this period has passed from 10% to the beginning to more than 42% in December 2014. It is also important to establish and disseminate criteria for rational use of the medicine to patients and professionals, with the principles of safety, effectiveness and cost. The work done in this field speaks for itself. Following the priority catalogue of medicines – where the Constitutional Court has recently given Galicia the reason for its approach – many other measures have been accompanied to facilitate the efficient prescription of professionals, setting targets in management agreements, incorporating tools into the electronic recipe that help them. These measures, along with the states, have allowed to reduce revenue expenditure by nearly 800 million euros. In any case, it is necessary to highlight the involvement of Sergas professionals in the achievement of these objectives. And, also, within the actions of rigorous and efficient management of the system, the actions carried out in centralized or integrated purchase of products and medicines are found in a prominent way. EUR 433 million was an integrated tenderer during this period, which allowed for a very significant reduction in acquisition prices, with an estimated impact of almost EUR 43 million. In addition, new formulas have been introduced that seek to streamline and hold suppliers accountable for the effectiveness of their products, such as shared risk agreements. Another important project in this field is the development of the logistics platform, which aims at homogenizing Sergas logistics management, controlling product expiry and traceability, optimizing stocks and supporting efficient shopping management. In December 2014, the integrated management structures of Santiago, La Coruña, Ourense, O Barco, Verín, Pontevedra and O Salnes have already finished their integration work on this platform. By December 2014, too, 1,497 units of consumption are already supplied from this single warehouse, more than 45,000 products will be managed, all deposits and implants have unit management and traceability to the patient and more than 3,500 articles are managed with expiry control or temperature to avoid losses. It is also worth highlighting the measures to reduce the impact of temporary disability on Sergas centers, to achieve the lowest levels of absenteeism that have been achieved, from 7.34 % in 2009 to 4.46% in 2014, and this coincides with the work carried out by health inspectors in the control of the provision, which allowed for the first time in 2012 to achieve the objectives set out in the agreement with the National Institute of Social Security. And finally, the seventh line is the modernization of infrastructures. Despite the fact that in a restrictive outline of public administration budgets the investment chapter is always the first one to bear the required efforts, the Galician Health Service has been able to continue in these years with the execution of investments so that our professionals have better means and patients have the best facilities. During the vigil of this plan, Sergas equipped and put into operation the new Lugo Hospital, which makes an undeniable difference in the quality of health care conditions in this province. He ran and built the new Vigo Hospital, the most important hospital infrastructure being built in Spain and will respond to the need for modernization of health care in southern Galicia. They're running reforms or expansions at Coruña, Ourense and O Salnés hospitals, and they've been working on the development of Burela's master plan and the revision of Ferrol's Architecto Marcide Hospital. 20 new health centres have been put into operation, 9 have been reformed, and now another 12 have been found starting their construction. The year 2015 will also be the year in which you will begin to see the fruits of the wager carried out in the Galician Health Service for the modernization of their high-tech equipment. Our professionals will thus have the most advanced teams that will enable them to continue to improve the diagnosis and treatment of our citizens, with safer and more effective health care. And they will also begin to see the advantages of the chosen procedure: competitive dialogue, a procedure provided for in the Public Sector Contracts Act, and which will allow companies to be transferred a fundamental risk, which is to ensure the operational availability of equipment. We're also innovating here. And I finish by thanking, once again, all the professionals in the Council and the Galego Health Service, who have been able to take all these projects forward, and also to the patients, who have helped us all these years to achieve these objectives and to change the course whenever needed. Nothing else for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u65	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u66	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, Counselor, Thank you, President. The evaluation of the results of the Sergas Strategy, according to the objectives achieved. Privatization and deterioration of public health: progresses properly, as confirmed by the report on health privatization in autonomous communities prepared by the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health, which places Galicia in the third place in relation to a greater degree of privatization, and which is expected, because already in the text of the strategy puts the private sector in value – on page 43 – and repeats the word "austerity" in a very suspicious and premonitional way. In addition, he admires his merchant skater when he points – and I quote textually – "to a sustainable development that goes through cost reduction." And in the introduction it also places the health system as an engine of economic and social development, contributing to the creation of wealth and not to the maintenance of the welfare state. Congratulations, Counsellor!, I wish to make a note, but the degree of compliance with the objectives which envisages an improvement in the provision of the working conditions of professionals and public health infrastructures – according to this honourable Member's understanding and as I shall explain later – is highly deficient, needs to improve. For a neoliberal government like this one of which you are likely to be part of is a great result, but not for Galician citizenship or for workers in the sector and the ill-treated state of well-being. The strategy marks seven targets – let's analyze some of them in the time I'm left. Objective 2: ensuring the provision of services in the right place and time, with the levels of quality and security committed; the reality contradicted this objective, it did not come true. Those infected with the hepatitis C virus are forced to mobilize and form a platform to access the drug dispensation service in an appropriate time. Today we still don't know exactly how the benefit of this medication goes. Galicians and Greeks are forced to search for the vaccine against meningitis for children in Portugal. It draws attention to this very much, considering that Galicia is an autonomy in which this disease has a high prevalence rate. But you – you are advocates of the rights of the gypsies – seem to have the slightest or very little interest in the right to health and life of the people born. Lugo's oncology patients – another example – still have to go through a real crossroad to access treatments today. Objective 2.1: to develop a staff policy to align the needs of the system with those of professionals, based on job stability, development and professional promotion, and to design a skills management system based on training, evaluation and recognition. In May 2014, Sergas recovers contracts for hours that were eliminated – and now I mean the Bipartite – so professionals today cover lists of day and hour replacements; lists that are not published and that generate garbage contracts, that prevent job reconciliation and that generate a state of anxiety and stress in workers in the high-grade sector. In March 2015, the union of nurses, Satse, denounces the lack of these professionals on the third floor of the Hospital do Salnés. In March 2015, in Povervisa – a private entity that receives the highest amount of public money to provide health care to more than 130,000 people in the Vigo area – the board is increasing its share of benefits at the cost of firing workers – recently a hunger strike ended without their rights being contemplated. Workers Commissions rejects the public job offer presented by Sergas in the last sectoral table because it implies that the public health system continues to lose jobs. In recent years, Counsellor, more than 3,000 jobs have been lost in Sergas, which implies an increase in precariousness and deterioration, of course, in the quality of the service provided. SOS, Public Health, points out in his recent studies that over the last five years the health budget in Galicia has suffered a 12.3% fall and that he has subjected the elimination of 2,000 jobs in health care and the closure of 500 hospital beds in public places. Objective 5.5: to promote open, continuous and participatory social dialogue with Galician institutions and social groups that have an active role in the health sector. I'm very sorry, but this government is not characterized by consensus and dialogue, rather by contempt and no one, but by repression of collectives involved in public defense, patient platforms and trade unions. I have to repeat it because I will never forget the reaction of our – of my – president; in the pre-election campaign he opened a model of a new project in the city of Ourense. Not only did he not pick up the demands of the Public Health Defense Platform that we were there to deliver them but he allowed the repressive forces to charge against the citizens, to whom he is supposed to represent. Objective 6.1: establishing a framework for strictness and austerity in the public health system in Galicia. Yes, Counselor, objective achieved and surpassed. The cuts that you have applied have been able to change a universal, generous and effective health system in an austere, deficit, unfair and obsolete model that sets the way for the privatization of public health. Point 6: To achieve the improvement of the same objective. Objective 6.6: to improve the quality of hospital transport in Galicia. Hospital transport is privatized. And the cooperage, which, for example, recipients of a contribution pension are paid about 10% of the transport, sends a lot of chronic sick people – for example, on dialysis, those who have to receive chemo, radio and rehabilitation – to take on chronically also a monthly expense has made a big difference. And I also remind you of the pathetic ambulance transfers to the ambulance of users and users in gas stations. Objective number 7: modernisation of health infrastructure. The state of the health centres and the hospitals in Greece is painful: undisclosed walls, obsolete and damaged furniture, lack of material that does not rest, a lamentable state in the facilities. Radiotherapy, nuclear medicine and hemodynamics services are still pending in the ULA. The Monte Carrasco Hospital, in Pontevedra, whose start was announced in 2011 to have it completed this current year, 2015, I don't think it reaches this goal because the works have not yet begun; and the citizenry is concerned about being without the new one and without the expansion of what already exists. The document in paragraph 2 of the 2014 Sergas Strategy provides that the maximum delay for testing is 45 days and 60 days for interventions. Nothing further from reality. The average surgical delay in public health in Galicia is more than 20 days above the one set out in the Insurance Act. In fact, the average wait for a surgical operation remains above 80 days, which means an impulse to transvasion of patients into private health, according to the current legislation. In April 2014...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u67	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u68	...the Vigo Hospital Complex counts, Counselor, with 7,705 patients waiting; and in July 2014 it touches the ceiling with more than 13,500 people; not to mention emergency services, chaotic and overwhelmed, guilty of patients and outbreaks of seasonal drains. But can one expect from a government whose president, in recent statements, claims that he bets on austerity before increasing public spending to promote economic growth? The final assessment of this Sergas Strategy will take place on May 24, when the sovereign people decide with their vote whether they approve or reject austerity and privatization policies. Say hello to the Republic, it's April 14th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u69	Thank you very much. In relation to the Galego Nationalist Block, it is understood that the use of the word is waived because no Member is present, pursuant to Article 75.1. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u70	Thank you, President. On February 23rd, I attended the evaluation of the 2014 Sergas Strategy, and almost two months after that publicity exercise, you came to Parliament. So it is found that the low importance and validity of this government is or gives it to the Legislative Chamber itself; first, the publicity act and almost two months later we inform the representatives and the representatives of the citizenry. It's a publicity act where, like here today, you've devoted yourself to self-balancing, when the situation of our public health is clearly serious. I said Mr Feijó that day that in the world of health there is no margin for errors; in his world, however, they are only permanently wrong in health management. And not only that, but that they ignore the danger of their measures, of the measures that are liquidating our public health. Mr. Campa said that day – the manager of Sergas – that represented 36,000 workers and health workers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that gentleman – not the management of this council – does not represent me politically or even as a health care, because when you talk about job stability, they insult us, and when they say that stability has increased by 5%, they lack the truth. They lie when they say, as they have said, that they have created more than 3,000 public squares, said Feijó and did not get red. You don't say that your strategy had as its objective what you call "new framework of human resources management" in the plan itself. You don't say that 6% of workers and public health workers have been reduced, 2,000 professionals less. They talk about stability when the people who joined came from a public job offer that wasn't from their government, it was earlier, and when the Government of Feijóo promised that by 2013 he would carry out four public job offer processes; today, April 2015, they haven't solved even one of those processes. Not to mention, of course, the replenishment rate that they applied to all those processes, the few squares that they drew and, unfortunately, they boasted as if it were a success. They speak, they assume, too, of reducing absenteeism that day, without mentioning that what is pursued in many cases is workers and layoff workers, that these are never covered before 5-7 days, or vacations in many cases, as we have already discussed on many occasions. And for that, obviously, you close your beds. How can you assume quality in the public system? How can you blame the people of the emergency collapses when since Mr. Feijóo's arrival they've permanently closed 450 beds, which you add to every vacation you close. A vacation period is already approaching, and you already have a bed closing plan on the table for this summer. How can they presume from the Health Insurance Act? One of your goals was to pay attention to the time and shape of that plan that you just moved here today. The reality is that today – according to the data we have – you are still hiding the actual data from the waiting lists; you are still not transferring the data from the non-structural waiting lists. And not even with the data you transfer – these officers – you are able to comply with your own law. I mean, more than a year ago, we've already passed the Health Insurance Act and it's impossible for you to manage to meet those deadlines. You didn't do it with the 180 days of maximum attention, how will you meet with the 60 days, in a law that opens the door – and we said it when you discussed it in this Parliament – the competence of public health with the private, the clear and obvious business? They still haven't clarified why the law isn't the same for everyone. In the past Health Committee the People's Party Group voted against enforcing the law required by Sergas; it voted against demanding them to comply with the same personnel ratios and maximum waiting times, instead of enforcing the law; the law that the People's Party itself pushed in this House, an absurd! You are the ones who say that you are defending democracy and that you are giving lessons in democracy when you vote in the House even against fulfilling the legal texts that you yourselves are pushing. It's absurd. Two thousand less professionals, 450 less beds, waiting lists, 12% less health budget since you're there, and 50% more of the privatized public health budget. That's what they did: health and private business promotion cluster; they privatize everything: electromedicine, maintenance, security, multiple service management, R & D+i, high technology, sterilization, telecommunications, oxygen therapy, data management, clinical history, teleassistive, logistics, and a long-term one that we could be discussing. You are selling our health, you are therefore selling our public estate without permission, spoiling what is of all; they have therefore privatized the public budget. In their strategy – and you said it here – they talk about R+D+i, but they don't say they cut all public R & D+i and privatize all health innovations; 7% less this year in staff, innovation and public management, 18% less in the 561 C Research Programme, training and innovation, 88 million euros for the privatization of high health technology and our clinical stories delivered to Indra armaments company, privatized by that company and privatized, in addition, by the popular government. How can they talk so lightly? That day Mr. Feijóo said that the Lucus Augusti was inaugurated fully equipped. A barbarity!, ten years to do the hospital, four years after its inauguration, and continues without radiotherapy and no hemodynamics 24 hours. Yesterday we were there with Ramón Vázquez and but I and unfortunately we were able to check how the facilities are prepared for four years, they have been prepared, but there is a lack of machinery, and by political decision we have arrived to this day with thousands of transfers every year of patients who have to travel hundreds of miles to be treated, and when you recognized, even between 2011 and 2013, five deaths on the way to people with problems of ischemic heart disease. How can you assume from the Infrastructure Strategy? In your own Strategy, which you just realized here, you say, we will build and operate 63 new health centers; zero. In your mandate you didn't build any of them, they started them at the last hour – we have said – now, because they are at risk of losing precisely those Feder funds, those European funds, which if they don't consume them before 2015, they lose them. We'll build and operate three high-resolution centers, I don't say, tell you in that 2009-2014 Strategy, but they built zero. We will finish the works of the Lucus Augusti Hospital and proceed to the provision of high-tech; we continue without endowment, we have just seen it: huge empty spaces. We will bid for the construction of the hospital in Pontevedra; we continue the same. They were also talking about the new Vigo hospital. A year ago, Counselor, who had to be already open, inaugurated, we've debated it on several occasions. You have breached the conditions that were included in your own prayers, a hospital with fewer beds, a hospital without a central laboratory and a private management hospital. How can they talk about prevention and promotion in a positive way, speaking of the Xermola Plan, when we have 20 percent of child poverty? Do you know what external health conditions are? Do you know how you know that children and girls don't have the chance to make decent food a day, that we have this childhood poverty?, when you also end up with the mental health care plan and just assume that prevention and promotion in a positive way, when you're decapitalizing family counselling centres, when you've been going back this year down the budget in primary care, when you cut 80 percent of the direct budget for the new health centres and 68% for the health center reforms, when you've been cutting back on the drug addiction care associations – since 2011 they've been cutting 22 %–...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u71	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u72	...the Drug Addiction Control Programme, 7%; the Communicable Disease Prevention Programme, 33.7% less since 2011; epidemiology since 2011 too, a rather short one; the Fegamp drug addiction agreement, since 2011, minus 57%; the HIV prevention programme, cropping after cut each year, and the anti-AIDS committees, which are closing. Counselor, we could go on. I don't know what management they come up with here, and when you, in addition, ended up with the public universality, and the only thing they know how to do when they get a criticism is to respond to censorship. You've finished with the greatest virtue of the public health system, which is universality, the ability to match all of us. This is only achieved through a 100 % public service in the concept, in addition, of a very common republican, of public affairs, and you're done with it. You come here bragging...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u74	...of management for large private companies, but it doesn't tell us about everything they're destroying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u76	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, health and the Republic! Mrs. Mosquera, this appearance is completely absurd, look where you look. It's absurd that you come to the House two months after presenting the evaluation of the Strategy to Bombo and Plate in the Congress Palace. Or you inform the House that, in fact, as you have acknowledged, it's the representative or representation of the whole of the Greek citizenship before you mount that media circus, or then it doesn't make any sense to come here and repeat the function. Absurd is also that you come here to appear today as Health Counselor. Look, you should have resigned a long time ago, and if not, you should have been dead a long time ago by Mr. Feijóo. Of course, Mr. Feijóo doesn't stop because you're his accomplice in this defeat. He, the ideologist; and you, the executioner arm of the health strategy; not of Sergas, Mrs. Mosquera, but of the health strategy of the People's Party. Strategy that seeks nothing but to cut and destroy the public health system in Greek while increasing and empowering the private system. For that, and with an apology for the crisis, you've been cutting the budget for the public health system for years. Yes, in 2014, 1,261 million less than in 2009. For years you've also been cutting human resources. I could take this opportunity to tell us clearly and transparently how many professionals now have the public health system. Officially, 2093, but I believe and am convinced that there are a lot more, I don't know how many, maybe double, you could say. And over these years you have been working and hiring services with private companies: call centre, shopping centre, computerization, socio-technological, sterilization, maintenance and energy supply, the new PP hospital in Vigo – small and private –, innovation, research, the new concert of Povervisa, etc., etc., etc., to ensure that the crisis has already happened – although I do not know who – and that they are going to start spending more on health, that budget increase can be used to pay for everything already privatized. Perfect strategy for Mr Feijóo, but tragic, Mrs Mosquera, for public health. Perhaps that's why Mr. Feijóo, when he talks about the achievements of the Health Strategy, he always talks about the Galician Health Service; a lot of health service, a lot of Greek, but nothing of the public. In addition, he claims that now the Galician Health Service is much more sustainable, more resolute and more accessible than in 2010, thanks to the savings in pharmaceutical spending; I save, ladies and gentlemen, that it was not due to an improvement in prescriptions, not, but to those that are now paid by others; of course, when they can, because 17 out of 100 medicines are not withdrawn from the pharmacy because they cannot pay them. Cops, in addition to the withdrawal of more than 400 drugs from public funding. So now the PP system is more sustainable thanks to cropping the public. By the way, fellows that Mr Feijóo has always openly defended, even that copage for outpatient drug dispensation in hospital pharmacies. I'm sure if you win the election again, they'll also deploy that coke, because, of course, they haven't removed it yet. Besides, and according to Mr Feijóo, the Galician Health Service is also now more sustainable thanks to privatization; it says it openly by setting examples such as that of the shopping center and things like this, something which, by the way, questions up to the Board of Auditors, Mrs Mosquera, which advises them to increase the audience and review the consultations. But absurd is also this appearance by content. By the way, that the first thing you would have to explain to us here and quite clear is who did that assessment, maybe the same ones that designed the Strategy, because that would all stay at home. In honor of the truth, I have to say that the same, the same, couldn't be, because, look, nobody's left, everyone's gone. Of course you're very calm, because with you and your husband, you're all set up. Look, a second question to which you might also answer is how this evaluation was made: perhaps by measuring the real and total wait, i.e. the structural wait list, the non-structural, the contents of closed agendas, the contents of electronic mailboxes, and both in primary care and in hospital care and in concert?, perhaps by measuring – and at least I would like to take care of – the complaints and suggestions presented in the admission services and even in the Valedor?, by measuring, perhaps, the protests of citizens, the plantations, the demonstrations, the communiqués?, by measuring the protests and complaints of the associations, the unions, the opposition parties?, by measuring the complaints, the strikes and complaints of all professionals and all the patients? No, no. The People's Party, instead of measuring, prefers, as always, to lie. And this assessment, instead of measuring, has been lied to; lying when it says that, thanks to Feijóo's management, labour stability has increased from 76% in 2009 to 31% in 2014. Something, by the way, Mrs Mosquera, which is incompatible with your own procurement data -- these 1,500 contracts signed in Sergas in 2014, and more than 449 contracts a day. Of course, maybe for the People's Party that's work stability. And also lying about waiting time. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I could put thousands of examples, but I'm going to use a very close one: 60-year-old woman, seen by her head doctor in October 2012, derived after a first evaluation and early tests, neurosurgery, where she was treated in November 2013. He was asked, among other things, to have a magnetic resonance, which they did to him in April 2014, but now they've given him an appointment for the review of this resonance and other evidence, at Ourense Neurosurgery Service, by May 2016, exactly on 31.05.2016 at 11.48 a.m. Look, it started in 2012, it will end in 2016, and for diagnostic confirmation it's exactly the same years as those of its Strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps by not participating in this absurd circus, I would have to leave it here and sit here without more, but, with respect to this House, I will take advantage of the minutes left to make a very grim evaluation, because I have little time left, but much more real than what we have heard from you in your intervention; that strategy which I remind you that on your day had been presented by Mr. Feijóo to bombo and plate also in that Congress Palace. I will begin with the most obvious, indeed, commitment to the new infrastructures. You know that high resolution centers were collected in that Strategy. Where did you stay, Counsellor, these high-resolution centers? Where did these 63 new health centers commit to Strategy? What about the engagement with Vigo's new hospital? I tell him: PP hospital, small and private; by the way, where everyone escapes – the last, the manager of the Chuvi –. Something must be happening, Counselor, so they can all run! And, look, what was the commitment to the new Lugo hospital, with the provision of the new Lugo hospital? I remind you that you have the whole province in arms, also wondering if that intention to highlight Galicia over the other autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u77	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u78	...that he was picking up in the Strategy, he was perhaps hiding that hungry Feijóo privatiser, who, in fact, has put us in the head posts, yes, but of privatizations. As stated here, the Federation of Public Health Associations places Galicia in third place: Madrid, Catalonia and Galicia. In which, of course, we are not in the head, Mrs Mosquera, as was also intended in that Strategy, is in clinical management, another major failure if you are able to speak sincerely of Feijó's health management. And, speaking of failures, I wonder where one of the most important objectives of Strategy was to ensure health care at the right place and at the right time and with the levels of committed quality and safety: perhaps in the continuous and generalized collapses of our country's emergency services, or perhaps in the waiting list that we also see in primary care? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u79	End it, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u80	The Feijóo strategy is clear, the results too; the crisis to cut the public and the supposed recovery to pay the private. And that's all, that's why you follow, Mrs Mosquera, at your post.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u82	Because it's good, very applied, to carry it out. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u83	People's Group. Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. We, Counselor, do indeed appreciate his presence and do not seem to be an absurd appearance; we have a proper appearance for the importance of the matter. And in addition, we have a proper procedure for what you've done. First he presented in this Parliament the Strategic Plan of Sergas 2010-2014 and now he presents the evaluation of what was being collected in that plan. There were some targets, and now the results of these targets are presented. So we're having an important appearance. Nothing is absurd than what is spoken of in Parliament, and less an appearance like the one you've just done here. I have my assessment, too, of the strategic plans that the Galician Health Service has made. And I would begin by saying that the Galician Health Service, therefore the Council, therefore the Government of Galicia, was able to strengthen the universal coverage of our health system, especially in Galicia. Galicia was the only community that was affixed by a special public health program to cover the assistance of immigrants. This you never say, but this is within that objective, and I'm afraid it's a central theme, this is basically a very important issue. There is no one here excluded from health care, except those who voluntarily, with incomes exceeding EUR 100,000, decide not to subscribe to the INSS agreement. This is the reality, but this is the reality that historically we have. This doesn't have to be explained, it's in all the books. General Health Act, everywhere, health care in Spain is linked to the discharge of social security. But, let's go!, having to say this in Parliament still now is that it seems to me that... this is part of the basic principle that is being studied in management manuals. And Galicia, therefore, took that step. We, Mrs Iglesias, with all due respect, are the only country in the European Union that has no aid sheds; I repeat: the only country in the European Union that has no aid sheds. And you're wrong, you don't pay anything for the transport, eh! I don't know where that data came from. Health transport is free – I tell you – it is free. I don't know, that fact probably happened to him wrong, but fortunately, we're still able to resist and nothing is paid for the health transport. The Counsellor spoke of Janus and electronic recipe. We can assume that we are the community that best has this installed, 100%, 100%. You can access our clinical history any optional and the electronic recipe system allows time and form dispensation, which does not have any other autonomous communities. And in addition, it has now extended – said the Counsellor – to social workers, to the INSS, and also the electronic recipe – you know – can now be done since the senior residences. So, what else? I'll tell you anecdote. When you visited an autonomous community not long ago, there was a large sign on it: This pharmacy already has an electronic recipe. I was amazed. I say: But is Galicia then going to put all the pharmacies? –all drugstores have it. Community – I'm not going to say the name – that it claims to be much earlier than ours, but it hasn't implemented the electronic recipe. We – I say – 100% electronic recipe. I also value it, Counselor, that I should pay special attention to the programs. I think Ferrol's experience is very positive, and I thank him, as an orensan, for extending this program and having marked Ourense especially for the pilot program now to take it to the city of Ourense, to the province of Ourense, because I think it's a very important issue for us. I think we took steps that also served to dignify mental health. You remember what happened here when you decided to move what was not a worthy attendance as to the facilities and if you decided, with great discretion, to transfer what was the Toen Hospital to the Piñor Hospital. That's valued all over the world. Yes, yes, for the families of the mentally ill. I contact them a lot and don't see how they value the change they've made. That was to dignify mental health, and I think it was. So this shouldn't be critical object, it should be the object of a positive assessment. I also know that the waiting list has always been present in political debates. Fortunately, you have introduced a criterion that has softened this subject, at least at the population level. And it's just that you got through the qualitative management of the waiting list, applying a priority program. And this seems reasonable to me. It is not so much the quantitative, but the qualitative: that they expect virtually nothing from serious patients. And then, as you know, the data is under 19 days. So I think in this sense it's positive, and in addition, it allowed us to better sort out what the programming of surgical activity is. You've already talked about integrated attention here. The management of integrated care for us was very positive because it broke that -- let's say -- discontinuity between primary care and specialized care, putting the patient really in the care center, because if you do program management, it's done a pathology management. And besides, this is where the advantage of integrated management has been observed, and let me have this reference here, on the topic of Ourense's pediatric surgery. Ourense's pediatric surgery, thanks to integrated management, has allowed and allows shared areas to be made. And today we have an area shared with Vigo where Vigo professionals come to Ourense and Ourense professionals go to Vigo. The only things that don't go are the children. I've already said it here: it's done a lot of demagogy with this. No one wanted to explain it. The problem with pediatric surgery in Ourense was a professional recycling problem. This had to be said from the very first moment. It's a pity I'm not the spokesman of the Block here today – I don't know why they left the full today – but the spokesman of the Block knows perfectly what the situation was. And here they say the data of the children who moved: 7 children over the past year; 7 children who, existing what exists, would travel the same way, because they have to go to a much more complex hospital, because they are low-weight children who require special anesthesia or require more complex care. Therefore, as a summary of what integrated care is, they travel specialists and do not travel patients. This is positive, nobody can question it. In the pharmaceutical service, what do you want me to tell you? We led that and we had to hear it! A minister who challenges the catalogue. Oh, my God. That was like an air kick in such a transcendental matter as it was to provoke a revolution within the pharmaceutical supply. But we've got it right, we've got it, and our doctors and our professionals have understood the catalogue message. The best drug at the lowest price, and on that line they were. And we get rid of generics, and the generics today are in a figure -- you were talking about 9-10 -- of 43 percent or 44%. The rise in this sense was spectacular. And now, still above, the court comes to reason as it then led the Autonomous Community of Wales. So I think it was something very important. And another thing you can't forget, because we're still traveling there and when we're traveling there we've learned about things that happen, and there's a lot of problems in many communities for payment in the pharmacy offices, and they're complaining, there's a lot of pharmacy offices that are too late to pay. Galicia – which I know – pays on time, and that's important, despite the amount of pharmaceutical spending, which, as you well know, is in the 1.2 billion euros. In the investment chapter, let's go back to the old one. Public and metropolitan hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, look what we're talking about in this chamber! Fortunately there is only one conclusion to this: there is the hospital, the hospital will be handed over this month; I think this is the best news, that the hospital is handed over and that a public infrastructure, metro, which will also benefit the citizens of Ourense and that you – on this side – have not been able to run. A lot of models, a lot of presentations and a lot of shocks, and a lot of shocks -- everything must be said: on the way, there was a lot of trouble, but, fortunately, in a few days, the public and metropolitan hospital is going to be handed over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u85	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u86	...Alvaro Cunqueiro, who, fortunately... Hospitalillo, hospitalillo, yes. Go see it, go see it, that then you will realize what the immensity of the ocean is. You go there and there you will realize what the immensity of the ocean is. [[Murmurs.]] Go see him, go see him, have a chance to go see him. [[Applause]] This is already being visited, you have the chance, I invite you whenever you want. Technical partner, Counselor. I only congratulate you here for one thing:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u87	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u88	...for being able to resort to something that was detrimental to Galicia. You know what I mean. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And thanks to that, we have an investment of 88 million euros in the tech partner, which, among other things, Mrs. Acuña – that's why you shouldn't be protesting for this – will have a new TAC in the Valdeorras boat. You should feel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u89	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u90	...satisfy for this and don't catch up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For now, in this first intervention, nothing more, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u91	Thank you very much. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Well, the truth is, I didn't think I could be absurd about this appearance, among other things, because I asked for the appearance in time and form – I believe – and, of course, I don't run the Chamber Session Diary so that you tell me that the answer isn't appropriate. We introduced, as I said, the Strategic Plan. We invited them back in 2010, inviting them to participate in the Strategic Plan. And I have to say that only the representative of the Galician Nationalist Block has participated, which I have already thanked at the moment, and today I feel like they're not here to give them back. Everyone else didn't want or didn't consider it appropriate to participate in the development of the Strategic Plan. We will invite you back to the development of the new strategic plan that we are now restarting for 2015-2020. You are also invited to participate in the elaboration of that strategy. I thank the representative of AGE, Mrs Solla, for her participation in the evaluation the other day when we presented her to the Galego Health Service, to the professionals of the Galego Health Service, because the presentation made the other day was essentially for the professionals of the Galego Health Service, who participated precisely in the elaboration of this strategy, which, as I said, was a frankly participatory development. Well, starting a little bit with the topics they were commenting on, I think about the report of the Platform for the Defence of Public Health to which they referred, I think that, above all, you should ask for a little bit more rigor, because really, the budgets devoted in Galicia to concerts have been reduced since 2005 to 1.9 million euros, reducing 203.7 million in recent years. I have a graph that I think is very significant about the development of concerts in this autonomous community, with which, well, the truth is, it's at least surprising the information given. It is reduced from 2010 to 2015 11.4 million euros, 5.32%. The game dedicated to concerts in the autonomous community is 5.8, well below most autonomous communities in the state. And these data aren't ours, they're from the Institute of Private Clinics, recently published. And the number of beds in the private total of the autonomous community is also quite below the rest of the autonomous communities. With which, well, these are data that are there, which – as I say – are not – as Mrs Acuña said – of the Galician Health Service, but are published by different sources and, of course, sources must be used a little more rigorously. Mrs Gallego, I was also surprised by the issue of health transport, because – as I know – it is not paid for health transport in this autonomous community. Ambulances if they're business. There is a contract – which I always know – that is, the contract with the transport companies includes the drivers of the ambulances, of course; I do not remember at any time or that the ambulances were managed by the Galician Health Service or by any health service of any autonomous community, but there is always a contract for the issue of health transport, which includes the vehicles and which includes the drivers. But, of course, when we're talking about the 061 and the healthcare professionals who go to the ambulances, they're always health personnel. The staff in this autonomous community, all health care is managed from the public system, all health care – I have said so several times in this House. The health model that is collected in the strategy and which defends the Board of Galicia and the Health Council is that all health care provided by professionals is professional in the Galician Health Service, also in urgent transport, also those health professionals who medicalize ambulances, whether they are professionals in 061 or primary care professionals or hospitals when necessary. Regarding vaccines, I have already said that this autonomous community was the first to launch the pneumococcal vaccine, obviously as a pilot, because the Ministry of Health, the National Medicine Agency, is the one that defines the drugs that are authorised and financed in the autonomous communities, and since then the Interterritorial Council is what defines the vaccination schedule of the national health system. And this autonomous community, of course, meets the vaccination schedule that has been marked and approved by the Interterritorial Council. And of course, the B meningitis vaccine is defined as hospital use and pathologies and for patients with some pathology, and that's how it's defined at least for the moment. When another decision is taken, or when technicians, the Committee on Vaccines and the Committee on Public Health take other decisions, other decisions will be taken. But really, I think here, as in many other things, you have to listen to technicians and you have to know what technicians say when they work, because they're not political decisions, they're technical decisions to be taken in vaccination and in many other health programs. Because no drug is safe, because no drug or procedure is harmless, and therefore it must always be applied with scientific criteria and scientific evidence criteria. You see, if ibuprofen, which is a drug that is usually used even without a prescription, is currently being questioned about its safety, the more we talk about new drugs, when we talk about drugs that have no trajectory and that we know virtually everything, and we're talking about, and tomorrow we're going to talk more about hepatitis C, which has to be tremendously rigorous in the application of technical criteria, scientific criteria and criteria of evidence and safety in treatments. I think this is fundamental for us to take it into account. Of course, I thank the workers, of course. I think I represent the 36,000 workers in the Galician Health Service, they are the ones who have achieved these results. And, of course, Mrs Acuña, that you say that the topic of drugs, that the decrease in drug spending, don't insult, for God's sake!, the professionals, they were the ones who got the percentage of generics we have in the autonomous community. We're still far away, we've still gone by comparing ourselves with other countries in the European Economic Community, which are at 60%; we're at 42%; we've still been through, but they're at 10% in 2009 and they've reached 42% in 2014. Please! That's because they did it. The catalogue, when the catalogue they searched on, they continued to apply the catalogue and they were able to continue to reduce pharmaceutical spending, and they continue to reduce pharmaceutical spending and continue to use best practices and continue to use electronic recipe to make the best prescription practices, and they're the professionals. For God's sake, don't insult them by saying that we don't reduce pharmaceutical spending, when we reduce 800 million euros in pharmaceutical expenditure. [[Applause]] Well, the OPE we've been pulling out all these years are there, they're published in the DOG, and right now they're taking possession of a transfer contest, essentially primary care doctors and other professional categories, including technicians. Well, they're there; I mean, there's not much more to say. Well, the Povervisa contract will tell you that it does require compliance with exactly the same quality and safety parameters and periodic audits to see the quality and safety of patients in Povervisa, and of course also progressively adapt to all Sergas criteria: safety, quality, waiting lists and everything else. I also invite you to go see Vigo's hospital, because when they say it's small, because I would also like you to go see Vigo's hospital, you're all invited to see it, because, in addition, they'll deliver it to us this month, and it's visitorable, uh!, you can go, you can already visit, you can walk inside, you can already walk in, with helmet, but you can walk inside. And, of course, he has a lab, he's going to have a lab, obviously he's going to have a lab, a lab that responds to all the needs of professionals and Vigo patients. I have no doubt that you're going to have that lab and, of course, with the best current technical and scientific requirements, and I can assure you that. And, of course, well, the topic of universality of the attention of the citizens of Greece I think it is absolutely guaranteed. We were – I said before – the first autonomous community that put in place a plan, in addition to NGOs, to ensure precisely the social public health programme, to ensure that all citizens living in Galicia had access to the primary care and specialized care they needed. 2,103 people had access to public health through this program. But in addition to that, 500 people have been able to access insurance through the National Institute of Social Security as workers or as beneficiaries during this time as well. I mean, really, there is no one who has access to health care in Galicia and, in addition, NGOs are still working with us to ensure and to facilitate this. What are we up to? In information and communication technologies. Mrs. Acuña, for sure, I can assure you that, from now on, Galicia, the Galician Health Service, is at the head of the use of information and communication technologies, and of course not privatized. You won't want software to be done directly by Sergas' technicians, you won't want us to manage them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u93	Quiet, Mrs. Acuña!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u94	...for Sergas professionals, the same thing that I told him before ambulances, that we manage the technologies of communication and information. No, there are companies. Of course, no public service, no company directly manages neither information and communication technologies, none, but, of course, the clinical history is of the Galego Health Service. Well, it's from the patient and he managed the Galego Health Service, and, of course, it's in no way privatized, it's deposited within computers and within the Galego Health Service, and of course it's kept, and it's followed by the entire Data Protection Act, with exquisite custody of all the information contained in the electronic clinical history. [[Interruptions.]] That I can assure you, that we strictly comply with the Data Protection Act, that we control all access to electronic clinical history, and from then on we have even opened some disciplinary record to professionals for misuse of access to electronic clinical history, and that's right. [[Murmurs.]] As for the tech partner, well, it's a completely different system to buy the health technology machines we need. It is a system of course collected in the State Contracts Act. Obviously, Mrs. Solla, the places, the areas where Vigo's linear accelerators will be located since they're there, that is, the hospital has been made with spaces for that. But, look, every accelerator you buy, depending on the characteristics of the accelerator, you have to have a specific installation, you have to have a specific lead, you have to be validated by the Nuclear Safety Council and you have to adapt – as I say – exactly to the technical characteristics of the accelerator, with which, once the technology partner has been sued, we have to prioritize precisely the adjudication of the linear accelerators in order to provide the Lugo hospital of the linear accelerators you need to assemble the radiotherapy service, once it is affixed, it has to be the company to say what the technical requirements of the rooms are, and the Nuclear Safety Council has to give them a good look at those works to adapt to the law, to the safety of patients, because setting up a linear accelerator is not anything, it's not any device, and of course you can put the patient at risk, you can put the workers at risk, and you can put those works at risk even the citizens in Lugo to be able to be able to do what we must do with them. And of course, the tech partner has another advantage. Now we will assist the other two lots, those two lots that prioritize a TAC in the Valdeorras boat – we hope to have it very close, because it is really a necessity – and a TAC in the CHUS emergency service and, among other things, all the staffing needed by Vigo's new hospital, which will start throughout this summer. And also all mammographers who need the breast cancer screening program because they've been obsolete for many years, and now, fortunately, thanks to this contest and these 88 million, we're going to be able to also equip ourselves with the whole breast cancer program of new mammographs, which allows us to get better images and better results in this program. About the shopping center, the truth is, I thought a lot of things would be said to me, but, of course, centralizing the purchases of the Galego Health Service, centralizing, getting better prices in the products that are bought for the Galego Health Service, the truth is I didn't think it was the subject of criticism by anyone, because that's what we're doing with the shopping center: optimizing the prices of the products that are purchased in the Galego Health Service. That's what we've been doing with many integrated competitions and many centralised competitions; we've even participated in centralised competitions across the National Health Service, specifically influenza vaccines and vaccines from the children's vaccine calendar, getting very good results, getting much better prices, and I don't know what the problem is with buying vaccines, buying medicines, or buying health products in an integrated way, getting better prices. And concerning delays or demand management, obviously – as I told you before – we did change the way to manage demand. And we've changed the way we manage the demand because it seems to us that just waiting time isn't enough. We need to take into account the actual needs of patients. And for that we've been working with scientific societies, and for that we've been working with professionals, because they're the ones who decide the criteria of priority, both from the surgical waiting list by priorities, and we've also managed to lower the waiting list by priority 1 or 2, – I repeat – with criteria defined by professionals, as well as by clinical pathways, where we're giving an answer under fifteen days. To conclude this second part, health care, the provision of health care, is a hundred percent public in this autonomous community, is provided by professionals of the Galego Health Service. 81% of professionals have stability bonds. But, of course, in the Galician Health Service, and above all in these 36,000 workers, there are holidays, days off, and tex that you need to replace, because, if you don't hire, you don't replace. So I don't know what you're telling me. On the one hand, they criticize me because we don't replace, and on the other hand, they say we make a lot of contracts. Please hurry, ladies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u95	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u96	Thank you, President. Mr. Santalices, also with all my respects, I want to tell you that no one is wrong to me. I don't have anyone to write to me, I read the papers. Wait, let me finish. I read the papers, I'm informed because I'm worried. I just found out the other day that there were cuts in the health emergency helicopters, and that 394 hours less a year will be operational. And I also know that on April 27, 2012, Junta, at the mouth of its president – it was an election year, I don't know if it's agreed, in the year 2012 it was the election in October – states that Junta will soften the payout by non-urgent health transport, due to the dispersion of the population of Galicia. Well, it was election year. This was in the air because it was a central government plan. Let's hope to see what happens in this electoral period where we are. I'll be alert and keep you informed. And I want to tell the Counsellor, on the other hand, that privatized ambulance personnel are always on strike, always claiming, because they are in a situation that is clearly damaged. And I want to tell you, if you don't mind and you don't think it's wrong, that you're not an oenegas, and that the oenegas are the ones covering the gaps that you had to occupy. You can't collaborate or practice charity, you have to act as a government, you have to make politics. And then I'd love to see everything that the People's Party and its representatives announce here was true. I hope it was true! I'd be delighted that it was! But the data that reflect reality, and are not manipulated data, and indicates that neither partisans, eh!, indicate that between 2009 and 2014 the public health of Galicia suffered a cut of 460 million euros; that more than 2,000 health jobs were eliminated and that there was a closure of hospital beds in number 275. Furthermore, when you say that health care is not privatized, how do you explain that 48.8% of the public health budget is going to stop private companies? And yet, Povervisa, despite receiving this very important economic benefit, fires 13 workers. It's inexplicable and unfair! And then don't tell me that there's no hospital collapse in the E.R. Go if there is! What happens is that this hospital collapse is not caused by the patients or by the professionals, who go, go!, I can give faith that they are heroes and heroines, it's impressive. What happens is it's because of the lack of staff. And why is personal missing? Because of the cuts. It's logical, I'm not surprised because it corresponds to your idea – with all due respect I say – to maintain that the public system is unsustainable, and that they defend privatization and the co-op because your strategy is to benefit the private company, which I do not share, but respect. But tell the truth! Because what really needs in the public health of Galicia is the restoration of health for all, with the recovery of investment levels and the size of the templates prior to the PP governments. All available beds must be reopened and the Primary Care Plan must really be promoted. We have to rescue for the public system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u97	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u98	...the privatized services. It takes political will of service, of service for the common good, and not to meet the interests of private companies. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u99	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u100	Thank you, President. The truth is, many of the subjects we've exposed here have not been answered, and I'm worried that you're twisting the data, because you're talking rigour when you're really saying here that the concerts have been reduced. What happens is that you twist the data, it's a perverse use. When we talk about that 50% of the public budget is privatized, we refer not only to health concerts, but to all high technology, telecommunications, health services, all those services that I have appointed in my intervention, that you have been privatizing little by little on the basis of Law 15/1997, and that even now constitute half of our budget. It is clear that if we add to it all the charges we pay, for example, by this public-private hospital in Vigo and that we are going to pay for the next few years; all the charges we pay for that singular concert of Povervisa, there are fewer budgets for public health, and that is also a political decision. Many amendments have been tabled here in the budget debate this year and in the previous year, and you didn't want to admit anything, and you have ways to have more resources. So you support a perverse argument, because reality is that we have less and less public capital in our health. It's interesting that you talk about, in addition, that young drugs have problems many times, when you didn't have any problems buying and spending thousands of euros in Tamiflu, which then you found out that it wasn't necessary, that it was a very substantial business for Guilliar company, the same as you now buy the drugs for hepatitis C. It's pretty curious that you get that topic out here today. They will have to explain to what extent and how they will finance all these treatments, which today have not fulfilled their promises, and I remember – we will – that we are going to have to pay a credit to the Ministry of Health to benefit private companies, when we would have the chance to produce the generic. And you said that you could have adverse effects on medicines – you said of ibuprofen, those that are not prescribed – and you forget that you are responsible for eliminating more than 400 drugs from the common health portfolio, and that therefore all of these don't count when you do calculations of what you save on medication. It is clear that public spending has become private expenditure, and that, if you spend or provide from public budgets, it has become the people who have to fund much of these treatments; therefore, you do not account for it, and your argument is clearly devious. You were talking about us being at the forefront of information technology. He'll say we're at the forefront of the privatizations of information technology. Another perverse argument, to move that here we don't make computer equipment. You see, what you're privatizing is not just the purchases of materials, equipment, not even machinery, what you're privatizing is management, and what private companies are starting to have all the R & D+i that we should have from the public sector. Not the machinery, but the management! The telecoms in Galicia are privatized: we have Telephonic, we have R, related to teleassistion; the clinical history I've already said, the Indra; the prior quote to a venture capital fund. But, please, what are we talking about? What are we talking about? Do not twist arguments. Then, when we talk about the shopping mall, I think it's great that you're saving with the centralized purchase. The problem is that you're privatizing these shopping malls. The problem is you're privatizing shopping.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u101	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u102	The problem is that you also privatize high technology, and we're not talking about the purchase of machinery, we're also talking about your management, the management of these services, the management of the training of professionals. I mean, it's going to be these multinationals that tell us how many times we're going to renew that machine, how much we're going to pay them, and the prices are going to multiply, as it's happened elsewhere -- I've told you here before -- as in the Valencian Community, when magnetic resonance was privatized, and the expenses increased exponentially. I don't have much more time, but you said that if you don't hire, you don't substitute for public health care. It's pretty curious that you say that here, when most of the vacations and IT aren't being covered, and when we already have this month on the table a new bed closure plan for our centers we'll discuss here next time. I repeat, you have withdrawn the universality of public health, not only through that Royal Decree 16/2012, which you have tried to compensate with charity, but also with all the privatizations that you are doing, that you decapitalize what is all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u104	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Mosquera, she likes it or not, this appearance is an absurd, her management of a lie and a failure, and Mr. Feijóo's health strategy, a great trap. As for the speech of Mr. Santalices, I have to say that it was very enlightening. For Mr. Santalices the neighbors and neighbors of Valdeorras we have to have a party because Mr. Feijóo, with the money of all of them, says now, in 2015, that he will put the TAC in the comarcal hospital; a TAC, Mr. Santalices, who was committed to 2009. But then, by the same logic, we'll have to do a funeral, without going any further, because they just removed a nursing coupon from the Barco Health Center, so that you too, Mr. Santalices. Look, the only truth is that you went up to the crisis to cut everybody's and everyone's while they were preparing for some, so that when they get money back, or, better said, when you decide to return public money to public services, they're so damaged and so thin that they won't be able to provide quality health care, so those care by private companies will have to be provided. Perfect strategy, but for whom? For the People's Party, not for the Greek public health system. Look, you were talking to me about computerization: we're in the head. Well, look, I'm going to read you an email I got today. "It is proceeding to massive outsourcing of software, as the PP says, and with it the exchange of equipment, software, etc., with the risk of losing the information, files and programs stored, as external companies disagree, and workers and workers do not know how to store everything or recover it." But I'm also going to read to you what the citizens say, what one user says about that health that Mr. Santalices has so often assumed, about the health of Ourense, managed very directly and very familiarly by Mr. Feijóo. "My name is Elena" –I speak in Spanish – " within two months I will be 81 years old. I entered Ourense's residence on the 6th floor on 7 February. For some complication, I left on March 4. I would like to thank all the staff who so wonderfully cared for me: doctors, nurses, assistants – who, in my worst moments, managed to take out a smile – lockers, nutritionists, etc. From here, also evaluate with a zero to the Management of this hospital complex. In that nearly month that I remained in, all, every day, there were missing things of the most essential – Mrs Mosquera – blankets. Several days I slept, newly operated, with my daughter's coat. Towels, t-shirts, pillows, dressing gowns, etc. There were days when, after washing, I had to dry with the dirty shirt because there were no towels or more shirts. In the face of such disaster, several people, and my daughter, went to Patient Care, where they tried – unluckily – that we did not put the claim, that we did not write in the suggestion box. I'm already recovering, but I keep thinking about those nurses and assistants who work all over the machine without a second break. And this is not an emergency repoint, this is the sixth surgery plant. So, many gentlemen, I just have to tell you that in the party that played me in this income the result is: health 10 - management 0. Thank you very much, Mrs. Elena Regueiro."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u105	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u106	But not only do the citizens speak, but also the commissions of the center, denouncing collapses in the emergency services one day yes and one day too; medical schools demanding, Mrs. Mosquera, commitment to primary care; scientific committees – which cannot stay away from them – denouncing the barbarity that Vigo's new PP hospital – small and private – does not take laboratory; and senior managers of his counsellor's office running away, Counsellor, disfavored. While you are enjoying cases of nepotism and censoring all those reports that you do not like, even those of the Ethics Commission, which, of course, denounced that public health is not universal – he likes or does not like Mr Santalices. Look, this is the real assessment, and in the face of this situation of Welsh public health -- there's a lot left for me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u108	...that I'd like to tell you, but I don't have time-, look, it's just a strategy, and that strategy is that you leave as soon as possible for your home...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u110	...and take Mr. Feijóo's hand, who is the ideologist and responsible for this defeat. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u111	People's Group. Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think it's any good to come to this Parliament talking about Venezuela, about Venezuela, I don't think it's appropriate to talk, and I think it's harmful, because it definitely hurts because you try – and it seems to be a public health professional – to desecrate one of the world's best health systems, but the good faith that doesn't achieve it, the good faith that doesn't achieve it. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't say exactly that; I said health transport in Spain doesn't pay, in Galicia it doesn't pay; that's right. I think you might have read a red pamphlet that was circulating around by these gentlemen who said, "If you win the PP, they'll charge you for going to the doctor, they'll charge you for the health transport." I think this was the confusion. Fortunately, there was no positive result and here it is not charged for the health transport. She's, in that concept, calm down. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the concept of private care within health care is already very much studied and we are not going to contradict ourselves in this Parliament as one of the best health ministers in Spain, who was Mr. Ernest Lluch. Ernest Lluch made the General Health Act... well, you think he was a good minister or a bad minister, to me he was a good minister, a good minister. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ernest Lluch has already said clearly, come on, tend to a universal coverage system in which healthcare... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u113	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u114	Well, sorry, I'm talking about your leader.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u115	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u116	If you don't respect that, how will you respect me if I'm talking about a socialist minister who made the General Health Act? [[Murmurs.]] And it has established that health care is public, but that there may be the complementarity of private health care. But the guardianship – which is what the counsellor said – of patient health care corresponds to the Galician Health Service. Turn it around as you like, the matter is very clear, and it's been done this way for a lifetime. Or are you going to tell me now that the Povvisa concert was born from this advisor's hand? The concert of Povervisa, for God's sake, was born there in the 1980s, eh! What are we talking about? Let's see if we're discreetly serious. Immunization. The advisor defined it well, we on the topic of vaccines will talk about this afternoon. But this is actually a line that has to be an agreement from the Ministry through the Interterritorial Council. But we'll talk in depth about this in the afternoon. And another subject that I already know it hurts them: Law of guarantees. Of course, the Guarantees Act has been passed in this Parliament, the Guarantees Act is in the process of developing it. I already know that to you this law, which is curious, Counsellor, the other day in Commission 5 no one wanted this law and to me they've been demanding all groups applying this law. But what are we on? But no, if they vote against it, if it's a good law, we all vote in favour of the law. But how do I get a law that they voted against? It's a hard thing to understand. No one can go against free choice, no one can go against a second opinion and no one can go against previous instructions. So I think this was a good measure put by this government. Counsellor, there are also issues I would like to see it sink, because I think they're positive tools. I think we have to go deeper in clinical management. Clinical management is a tool that will bring many benefits. I'm asking you here for an effort, because in clinical management there's also a lot of support for the system. We have a problem in Galicia with our population, a very old population, and this obviously creates a problem of sustainability. Clinical management can provide positive aspects. So I ask you to make an effort on the subject of the development of clinical management, which professionals want. You here can hear any speech, but I, who am a lot with professionals, all bet on clinical management. Here's a speech that's distorted, which is because they don't care about certain issues, because it's a model that you want to implement here after thirty years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u117	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u118	...that he couldn't implant, and that's why he doesn't want it. I'm finished, Madam President. We continue to bet on strengthening – this government is doing so – a public system without assistance partners. I insist: we are the only country in the European Union that has no helpers; in any other country nothing more comes to you with the machine, 60, 70, 80 or 90 euros; we are the only one. We bet on the sanitary infrastructures. The metropolitan public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro is a reality, despite the obstacles; neither up to the chairs nor down to the chairs, Mr. Gallego...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u119	Finish it, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u120	...the metropolitan public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro will be a reality, for your own good, for mine and for the good of all who are here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u122	To insist... well, I don't care, Madam President, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u123	You have the floor, if you let him... Mr. Losada, the lady councillor to close the debate. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, I don't want to open the calls to order. Then, please, you have the word of the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Health Council and in the Galego Health Service we are convinced that only by evaluating what we do, only by rethinking all our actions, will we be able to improve; to improve to offer all the Welsh and Welsh people, real owners of the public health system, a health service that is increasingly tailored to their needs, with the most advanced technologies and at the same time with the best use of resources, always scarce resources, but especially in these times that it has touched us to manage and that they have been the biggest economic and financial crisis in recent decades.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u125	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u126	So in 2010 we developed the Sergas Strategy 2014: public health at the patient's service, so that we could be used as roadmap in this journey that we knew it would be complex; because it is always, but it exceeded our forecasts more widely, because we didn't think it would be so. Today we can say not only that we have saved Galicia's public health system in the greatest economic crisis known, but that the results are better than five years ago, that we have done more with less, and that we have been able to start the changes that the system needs to become stronger, to overcome the challenges it will undoubtedly have to face: the ageing of the population, its pluripathology, the increasingly expensive technology and drugs, the adaptation to new information and communication technologies, the increasingly informed patients and increasingly involved in decisions on their health and disease, the inescapable needs for prevention and health promotion in increasingly transversal and health-related actions, and the new rules of play with health providers. I'm going to give you some data that shows what I'm saying and that they're collected in the evaluation of strategy. Considering the level of execution of the planned actions, we can evaluate the impact this has had on three areas: on the health of citizens, on the activity of the Galego Health Service and on the perception of citizens. The first, the health indicators, the variations of the health indicators. It's true that some of these indicators are not only dependent on the health system, but they also need to be taken into account that publications that are made are not always exactly the vigil of this strategy. I'll start with the life expectancy of the Greeks and the Greeks, which increased in more than half a year during the years of vigency of this strategy, from 81.5 to 82.5, and it's among the world's largest. Also, the adjusted mortality rate in Galicia per 100,000 inhabitants decreased during this period, from 933 to 885 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, despite the aging of our population. And if we specifically consider some of the rates in which the health system may have a higher impact on results, such as those referring to mean mortality at rates adjusted by 100,000 inhabitants of cerebrovascular disease, this rate decreased from 83.2 to 79.2; ischemic heart disease decreased from 83 to 72.7; and mortality in less than 5 years was reduced from 79.9 to 60.9. As I say, all the very positive indicators. If we talk about the activity carried out by the Galician Health Service in this period, we will have to start by highlighting the very significant increase in surgical activity. In 2014, Sergas carried out more than 108,000 surgical interventions in its hospital centers, the highest number of interventions in its practically twenty-five years; about 20,000 surgical interventions more a year than in 2009. And not only quantitative activity data is worth highlighting, but also qualitative data. 2013 was the first year in which surgical outpatient interventions exceeded interventions with income. In 2014, outpatient interventions accounted for 53% of the total. However, a steady increase in programmed interventions remained, which in 2014 accounted for 82% of the total. If we talk about surgical performance, we can observe a trend of constant improvement, exceeding the established standards of best practice by 75% and reaching 76.53% in 2014; more than six points of improvement over the performance recorded in 2009, which explains some of the other data. This data could also be supplemented by the progressive reduction in the percentage of surgical interventions suspended or by the progressive reduction of preoperative mean stay. And, concluding with the surgical activity, it is necessary to highlight the increase in interventions carried out in primary care centers. The goal of improving the resolution capacity at this level of care with less referrals to the hospital can be reflected in data that practically doubles those recorded in 2009. We went from 12,434 interventions in 2009 to 21,454 interventions in 2014; therefore, more surgical activity, but also more rational, with more outpatient interventions, with more interventions in primary care and with more scheduled interventions. And this, no doubt, is reflected in the surgical waiting list; the waiting list that, as I said, we've just managed more rationally, according to the needs of patients, according to the registered demand. P1 went from 29 to 19 days, 10 days less than in 2009 and well below the target of 30 days; P2 went from 74.7 to 57.4, 17.3 days less than in 2009 and also well below the target of 60 days; and this despite maintaining a very high demand, far above the average of the National Health System. If we review primary care and activity, we note that more outpatient surgery has been done, but also primary care doctors and primary care professionals can increasingly request additional evidence. And it also progressively decreases the number of administrative consultations in health centers, which undoubtedly allows an increase of time that professionals devote to patients who really need it. The total number of consultations in the Sergas health centres decreased by almost 2 million per year, so it corresponds to 3.3 million in administrative appointments and increases 1.4 in care appointments. Besides, we bet on the phone consultation. In 2014, 1.2 million telephone consultations were held; 8% of family doctors' appointments. 99% of these phone quotes were resolved without the need for patients to go to the health center, only 0.24% of the appointments needed to be quoted in the health center. I mean, we have more decisive primary care. In hospital consultations there was also a progressive increase in activity to more than 4.1 million consultations, 342,000 consultations more than in 2009. But the delay has also been reduced. 81,000 fewer patients wait on December 31, 2014, waiting on December 31, 2009, and waiting for an average of 19 more days for a first consultation. I mean, fewer patients waiting, and less wait for the consultation. As for the average stay, we are also improving the indicator, reducing and downloading for the first time in 2014 below 8. As for emergency care, we need to analyze the three elements that set up the emergency health care model. Hospital-served emergencies are down, 90,000 fewer emergencies are in hospital centers. The CAP emergencies are increasing by 38.212 more than in 2011. And the vast majority are solved, 1.3 million, in primary care CAPs, only 9.23 percent are derived from the hospital. No. 061 is also increasing the number of calls. We have 3,200 daily calls, which represents 100,000 calls a month. Forty percent of them are resolved without resource mobilization. So we also have more rational urgent care, more where it has to be, in primary care, not in hospitals. Finally, let's look at the perception of users. Since 1995, the Ministry of Health in collaboration with the CIS publishes the so-called health barometer, with results from the entire National Health System and autonomous communities. This is the citizens' evaluation. Of the data from the last 2014 survey with 2013 data, 77% of citizens think the health system works well or quite well. Practically six improvement points on the survey published in 2009 with data from 2008. Also above the global assessment of the National Health System, which was 65.87%. The functioning of the public health system in Galicia was also qualified by most citizens as satisfactory. On a scale of 1 to 9, 82.19 % points to a score above five, and 44.06 % points to a score above 7. The average in Galicia is 6.06, with an improvement of 3.41% on the 2008 results. And we also have several external recognitions: the National Prize for Innovation and Design, the National Prize for Informatics, Best in Class, and we are a European reference region in healthy active aging. In conclusion, in short, a strategy that has served so that the Public Health System in Galicia, far from what can be thought and what some people want to make our citizens believe, presents remarkable activity increases, and, above all, more reasonable and efficient activity. More outpatient activity; more emergencies in the CAP; more primary care resolution capacity; priorityization of expectations related to patient severity. That is, a more integrated health system, with more cohesion and more equity; a health system with better health outcomes and a better health system valued by citizens, because this is, finally, the fundamental objective of our system: to respond to the health needs of citizens, of the Greeks and of the Greeks that each day meet our centers. And all this thanks to the professionals, all the workers of the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, the central services and the care centres, which make it possible for quality assistance to be provided 24 hours a day on 365 days a year. But also the Government of Galicia, which has been able to prioritize health spending and, year after year, we devote more than 40% of the budget so that, despite having fewer than 2,000 million euros of budgets, the health budget will continue above 3,300 million euros a year. And, of course, thanks to the patients, to all those who are collaborating to do these things every day a little better. They know that this is our only commitment, working for and for public health in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u127	Thank you very much, Counselor. We continue the development of the agenda with point 4 of motions, starting with the G.P. motion. of Galician Socialists at the initiative of Fr. Francisco Caamaño Domínguez. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Caamaño Domínguez, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the establishment of a commission for the analysis of the situation of the Greek language and, if so, the updating of the Linguistic Standardization Plan, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u128	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr Caamaño, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u129	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the interlocution held by all parliamentary groups in the past full, it is now time to debate the motion, and between time and time, there have been two events that have to do with what we can talk about in Parliament today. The first, a decision of the Supreme Court dismissing an appeal brought against the so-called decree of multilingualism. And at the same time, some statements, in my lucky opinion, seem to have been listening in our debate to this Socialist Group, which, according to some, has no clear position. Well, it seems that the president of the Galician Culture Council rightly defends the same position as he stands for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I take the literality of your words, which you all could consult in the media, before the question you thought about the decree of plurilingualism and the decision of the Supreme Court, and the president said with all roundness – and for there to be no misconceptions literally – that it is a political conflict that is not solved by judgements, something that we have been repeating from this rostrum the socialists; and that this is not done with judgments, but with attitudes, with recognition and with the dignity of the language. That's where exactly the key is. Because the basic problem of the People's Party and the current Government with our language is an absolutely dislocated approach to the subject and therefore of the public policies that we have to pursue. He considers that, in view of the discourse that some nationalist parties present in Galicia maintain, of discrimination in the Greek language, what they have to do is equalize using what they call cordial bilingualism, and therefore understand the justice of the language as a redistributive justice, as if the redistribution had done in itself, in this sense, equality policies. That's why they talk about cordial bilingualism, they talk about reserving the same space for Spanish as for Greek, and they don't realize -- and this is the most serious of their position on the subject of language, because they didn't understand it -- that, while inequality is corrected by equality policies, the problems of humiliation and non-recognition, the problems of dignity, they don't recognize themselves through equality policies. So, when Justice is not redistributive, but it is of recognition, what we have to pay attention to is dignity, in this case of language, and only with policies recognizing what Greek is, and the dignity that Greek has, if we can establish accurate or fair balances within a society. What Avishai Margalit calls a decent society. Before it's fair, a society has to be decent. I mean, don't humiliate others. Pay attention to the dignity of your collectives. That is precisely what cordial bilingualism completely ignores, in an absolute blur of the cultural reality of a country, of a language, in this particular case. The proof of all this, and there the differences between this group and the People's Party, is that we do not share policies that respect the dignity of our language. And pay attention to the dignity of our language as an official language – and I'm not talking about its legality, I'm talking about its dignity – that to have a public office in the Galician Union, knowledge of the Greek is not required. Pay attention to the dignity of an official language. By the way, I'll check again. There is no other official language where this can happen, anywhere! That's a news from the Feijóo government, and here it is. Indignity and contempt, because the message he leaves is: Don't worry, because to be in the Government of Galicia doesn't need knowledge of Galician language, it's enough with the Spanish, which is a mandatory duty. Therefore, the equalization message is dissipated with indignity for the language that is the official of the Greeks. As an example, the decree of plurilingualism is beyond its legality. The problem is the same again. It's to take an official language and try to fit it with a non-official, within an educational system, implying that Greek is a secondary, marginal thing, the important thing is Spanish and English, and that's an effect of indignity with regard to the language of our country, beyond legality. Let's not say the position that can be taken in the face of Minister Wert's reforms and the position held by the Galician Council, of which I have already made reference. While in the Basque Country an agreement defends its linguistic policy and position, in Galicia we follow up. As a result of this follow-up, it's also important to keep it in mind because we're already seeing it in our country's teaching system, which is that science subjects don't mostly go to English at almost no school. Message? That Greek is a rural language and, at most, of the sea, unable to give mathematics, science, biology, etc. That's reserved in our education system for Spanish. A second wonderful message of indignity for our language of the policies you're making. Within the legal framework? Well, maybe so, but I don't want to make it a cause, but rather the goals and messages it gives to the Greek society. Consequence of all these policies are the results that later in citizenship has the use and implementation of our language. That's what's happening to us, and that's the concern this parliamentary group has, and that's what it's been making manifest throughout all this legislation. It's nothing else. Pay attention to the dignity of our tongue, which is going to us. Please, Government of Galician Union, pay attention to the needs of our language today, especially its dignity as such. That's what you're missing, and that's what this group has been reporting since the first day. That is why he has tabled a motion in terms of seeking some institutional arrangements possible so that a problem which is substantially a public policy problem, therefore political and non-judicial, does not return to the courts and can be reasonably arranged in the democratic institutions of this country, especially in Parliament, in view of the position that it holds closed, in the face of any attempt to approach, by the Government of the United States. The first thing we propose to the Government, and it is in this motion, is that it exactly repeals these indignant rules for our language and establishes an urgent defence plan for the Greek, it is necessary! I'm not going to talk either, I'm going to go now, but it's very well known of the dignified treatment we've given in budgets to the Greek language, which has been most systematically reduced all this time: 5.7 million euros against the 21 that there was, for example, Manuel Fraga's time. This is the reality of the dignity with which our language is treated by the current Government. The second of the proposals we have, let us look at the point where we were all, which was the Linguistic Standardization Plan, and I, with regard to Galicia and our language, will not discuss who was the first to break it, as much as I do. What we propose in this motion is that we sit on that plan, make a parliamentary committee, have a basic document accepted by all, update it, talk about it, but let's not spend another half day without doing anything, in view of the gravity of the situation we are living in. That is the proposal which is being put forward in this motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which, of course, defends what the Constitution says and states the Statute of Autonomy. It does not mean M, no radicalization, but it does want something to be done in response to policies, recognizing the identity of Galicia and its language. And the policies of recognition, I say again, are not politics of legality or equality. You can't equal those who speak Spanish and Greek, one is one thing and the other is another; you must recognize and respect both. This is not about cordial bilingualisms, but about everyone being recognized freely as what it is, and for that the public policies of this autonomous community in this area have to change deeply. And because they don't do it and they keep clinging to that fear that the problem of Greek is a problem of nationalism and it's a war with Spanish, and some and others, and those who are in the middle and aren't, time goes by and things don't get done and they're going to die. And that political responsibility, of course, is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u130	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u131	...who is ruling today in Galicia. He has the powers, not the Government of Spain, it is the Union, but it is also the responsibility of this Parliament and all parliamentary groups. There is the motion, and there it is clear, too, the will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u132	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u133	Thank you, President. I am convinced that if someone had dedicated himself to making holes in the Cathedral of Compostela or taking part in the Lugo Wall, we would all be alarmed to say, "Minudas beastes!" just as we are now looking at the destruction of the World Heritage works by the insurgents of the Islamic State. However, when someone attacks a heritage of humanity, an immaterial heritage, as it is a language; a language that belongs to a small community like ours, instead of being alarmed by the Government and saying: "What a barbarity!, we must protect this cultural good from our country, no, the Government of Greece says: "Well, it doesn't matter! He's equal to many other languages in the world. It's okay! However, the English language came here through oral transmission. Languages are maintained because people speak them, use them, in their daily lives. If that ceases to happen, the language dies, as much as it is used in literary or other studies or at the political level, which is really what is reducing our language. It's true that this loss of language since the year 2001, where most of the people of Greece were considered to be Gallo-speaking and have as their first language the Greek, until today, where our youth and our children no longer speak Greek to each other or to their families, should give us an alarming voice. Give us the alarm voice because, in addition, we live in a world where all the messages, or practically all the messages, come into Spanish. Except for Radio-Televisión Galega, all the media in Galicia report in Spanish. The written press of the greatest roll is in Spanish. All the films you see on TV are Spanish because, unfortunately, TV Galega doesn't invest in quality programs or quality movies. All the games and video games that come to youth, and children and girls, are in Spanish, it's impossible to get one in Greek; it's very difficult to get children's and young literature in Greek. That alienates our youth and our children and the children of Greek, and gives them an idea – as the socialist spokesman said – that important things are about Spanish. So it's a negative discrimination that the German Government is doing in relation to our language, and what we have to do is positive discrimination. We have to keep in mind, precisely, that it is a language, that is spoken in Galicia, that is sister to us in addition to Portugal and the Lusophone countries, which is very important and the Union has never given value to that potential of our language abroad and to relate to us externally. But it must also be given importance to the use of our language within our own country. It's impossible, or practically impossible, in our country to attend a trial and let the judge treat you and answer you in English. There's even some German businessman who asks a translator to translate from Greek into Spanish. That's contempt for language, and a contempt that's supported by the policies of the Galician Union itself. But it also happens to us when we access the bank. It's impossible to access the bank...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u134	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u135	...and talk to you in English. Or when we get to health care, it's very difficult to find in health care, in hospitals, in primary care, the staff that cares for you in English. The same is true in teaching. Even in teaching, Junta is protecting those centers that violate regulations about our language. So there's a lot of work to be done. We should take advantage - as the socialist spokesman said - of the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization approved unanimously, from it and start to react before our language disappears from our country when older people now speak it. It is a real risk, it is a very serious risk, and what I hope is that the People's Party has the common sense and the State responsibility to vote in favour of this motion. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u136	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u137	Good day again. The fact is that in the interpellation that is put into practice in this motion we have already made clear the social unanimity, the political unanimity that exists in the demand to reactivate or at least recover the policies of linguistic normalization for the benefit of Greek. The fact is that the People's Party is absolutely alone – absolutely alone – in this situation of harassment and overthrowing the Greek. And that's because he made a purely electoral change by breaking an existing consensus in a framework that was defined as basically a bet on linguistic normalization, which is nothing but assuming the need to activate differential policies for the sake of Greek; which is often – it's a term that, of course, I don't like – is called positive discrimination. Differentiating policies for the Greek. That was an existing consensus, reached at the institutional level but also at the popular level, at the level of all citizenship. And that consensus rachouse betting on that model that coined the People's Party called harmonic bilingualism, which is nothing other than, behind a false pairing of the two languages in contact in Galicia, to subject the Galician to a situation of clear defence at all levels. Therefore, I believe – and I agree with the philosophy of this motion – in the need to break a triad that clearly characterizes the German Government. A choice defined by its budgetary, regulatory and institutional policy. Those are the three fundamental axes that are characterizing the attacks on the Greek. I'd budget. So it's said here, there's a decrease of about 70% of the funding for linguistic normalization. But it affects all issues: publishing the book, translating works into English, libraries, archives, and finally all those that can be sources of linguistic empowerment and normalization. In the normative field, as has already been said, with the publication of the Multilingual Decree, which directly attacks one of the master lines of linguistic normalization, such as school, education, in its broadest sense; but it also has other aspects, such as the disappearance of linguistic normalization agents, particularly Professor Celga, who performed a fundamental function in relation to the normalization of the Greek language, especially with regard to the adult population. And in the institutional field, here, in this Parliament, preventing a rigorous debate on the situation of the Greek, denying the reality that the Galego Institute of Statistics denounces, but not only: the Royal Galaga Academy, the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, collectives such as Prolingua, the University itself, the Council of Galicia Culture. And, above all, leaving behind the regulatory obligations of the Government of Greece, publishing an annual report – so says the law, the German regulatory framework – on the situation of the Greek. Well, that report is not published, the reports of other entities are questioned, and therefore it is weak to have a serious and rigorous institutional debate. It is true, therefore, that we agree with the need, of course, of the creation of a study commission. In fact, we put forward a non-law proposal on 26 February, in which we called for the creation of this study commission and in which we urged the Galician Parliament to carry out the relevant regulatory procedures to create a parliamentary study commission in which the different institutions, organizations and collectives could participate to carry out a proper diagnosis of the current situation of the Greek language and to design actions aimed at making effective and advancing the Linguistic Standardization Plan. That must be the starting point. So we agreed on the literality of the second point of the motion, in case it wasn't a little bit. This weekend, by incorporating news items, it was the delivery of prizes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u138	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u139	...from the Galeg Academy of Audiovisual. One of the most award-winning films was The S morgue; a film that had 17 nominations. A film that premiered with 18 copies, when a film that is usually soundproof in our country is usually accompanied by about 300 copies. Despite that, it was one of the second-hand and most public-responsive premieres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u140	Finish it, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u141	But that's not enough. The audiovisual situation is really agonistic. There he was denounced, of course, the collective, and situations like those that happened, with movies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u143	...such as the Apostle, or the little magician, they make it very clear what is the situation and what pulse is being given to the Italian audiovisual. It's a further example of the abandonment to which our language is being submitted in the ed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u145	...cultural. So we're going to support this motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u146	Popular Group, Mr. Baamonde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. At the last plenary meeting, when speaking to the Counsellor, Mr. Caamaño stated which were the three essential postulates of the linguistic policy of socialism. First of all, the consideration of Greek as Galician own language and the consideration that Greek is the official language, with Spanish, in the Autonomous Community. Secondly, everyone has the right to freely use the language of their choice. Thirdly, that the Galician Union has an obligation to defend our language as a minority language. But now, by presenting the corresponding motion, it dilutes this statement by making a proposal identical to the proposals that normally make political nationalism, and which translates the three eves with which political nationalism also addresses the linguistic problem, from our point of view. The consideration that the problem of Greek is a problem of teaching; the intention of introducing monolingualism into English and the expulsion of Spanish from public spaces, and the idea of believing that languages can be imposed by decree. What is the consequence of all this? A very clear one, which here is evident that political nationalism does indeed have a very clear linguistic policy, which is only to consider language as a nuclear element of its concept of nation and to use it in its development of the concept of national sovereignty. The People's Party also has its own language policy, set out in four basic principles: Galician and Spanish are official languages. Greek is recognized as Galician's own language with measures of positive discrimination against Spanish's expansive power, the balance of languages in learning, with the introduction of knowledge of a foreign language, and freedom of use. Mr. Caamaño, you speak of the lack of focus on reality, of dignity, of equality policies, but you still do not clarify what the exact language policy that political socialism is about is. The problem of Greek is not a matter of rhetoric or solemn forms, but a problem related to its social use, and that obliges us to read properly Galician social reality. It seems that socialism is unable to read that reality, by the proposals it makes, which make, in addition, impossible to accept the motion it presents. First, make a reference to the decree of multilingualism. Mr. Caamaño, what do you want me to tell you? The decree of plurilingualism is supported by Galician social majority, is applied peacefully in the classroom and now has the full and absolute support of Justice, which not only rejects formal issues, but enters the bottom of the question and makes it absolutely clear that it establishes balanced use of Greek in teaching; declares consistently that it conforms to the provisions of the European Charter of Minority Languages, also states that it is adjusted to the Statute of autonomy and to the Law of linguistic normalization, and that the circumstances of the IGE survey cannot be met by the decree because they respond to a circumstance of time that has nothing to do with the temporary circumstance of the decree. If this decree falls under the Law of Linguistic Standardization, and the Law of Linguistic Standardization is the result of consensus, I ask you, why do we resume consensus on the basis of the Law of Linguistic Standardization?, why do we not resume that consensus that is constantly being offered from the People's Party, which the Parliamentary Group has offered through a motion that they have not wanted to accept, that the former Councillor for Culture has offered it, which in the same issue of the decree of multilingualism has given him the possibility of reform to avoid this dichotomy in the use of science and social matters?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u148	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u149	Well, you don't use it, Mr. Caamaño, for the simple reason that you'd rather hide in the reality of nationalism not to articulate your own reality. We put them back into consensus; a consensus on the basis that the knowledge of the two languages is absolutely essential; on the basis that the two languages must be used with absolute freedom of use; on the basis that bilingualism is neither harmonic nor childish nor cordial, it is real...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u151	...is the bilingualism of the Greek society, which uses the two languages in absolute freedom, is a bilingualism which aims to guarantee a society without confrontation or division by the languages, but rather a society united precisely in defense of the language of all, which is the Greek, but in defense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u152	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u153	...of the Greek along with the Spanish, which is the language of all of us who live in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u154	Thank you very much. G.P. motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the demand for the transfer to Galicia of executive competences in the field of work, labour relations and public function inspectorate and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure workers' rights
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u155	No amendments were tabled to this motion. You have the floor to speak to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u156	Well, the Labour Counsellor said in the past full, on account of the plea, that he trusted that the Greek workers would denounce the default of their wages and the delay in the collection of their payrolls. Moreover, he said that the German Government is looking for workers' labour rights to be respected and strictly regulated, and that all contracts are exactly as they were signed. He indicated that during 2014 572 performances were carried out by the Inspectorate, linked to default and late wages. I understand that 572 actions are more than enough for the Labour Council to have acted on its own initiative, and not to continue relegating to the Labour Inspectorate's proceedings, which depend not on the Council but on the Ministry. Because in spite of the precariousness of the German labour market, of the low wages, which you see today in the press that are still falling in relation to the European average, we continue to lose the wage capacity of the workers and workers in Greece in relation to the wages of Europe, it seems that this does not reach many of the Greek entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, who also intend to steal those wages of misery by paying them even to the workers. There are companies, moreover, that, sheltered by the inaction of the administration itself, they cheat on workers in various ways knowing that nothing will happen. Some companies force their workers and workers to buy their own uniforms, or they don't pay them their breaks. Of course, Sergas knows a lot about that, because he doesn't pay any rest to his potential workers, so the private company largely copies what the administration itself does. Extra hours off, no shift between work centres... In the previous plenary session, at my briefing, I quoted, among many other companies that owe wages to their workers, the Hotel Palacio de Sober, for which Mr Feijóo's Government has mobilized, in full crisis, about 4 million euros between cretes and aids, more than 50% of the total project. The hotel's promoter, Madrid's Albaer 98, acquired Sober's palace in 2007 to the parents of the current Union delegate in Lugo and then Mayor of Sober, Raquel Arias. At the beginning of 2013 the company requested a temporary ERE, but since the summer of 2014 the establishment is closed. The workers at the Sober Palace are subject to an ERE, but the company is not paying them the wages they owe, according to the commitment on March 1 in the ERE signature. The workers charged, yes, the first part of February, but the five remaining payments are still not collected. And I wonder, in that speech of the previous plenary, of the advisor, that they were watching for compliance with the regulations, that the Board was watching because the workers had paid their salaries, where is the action of the Board in relation to the Hotel Palacio de Sober?, what did you do to the Board?, besides giving him money and having a great negotiation for a People's Party post with its sale, what were the actions of the Board in relation to this? What was the follow-up to Junta of that money you invested in the Palacio de Sober hotel? This is what happens here with Milk Food, T-solar, etc., we have talked about in this House of companies and companies that have received public help and that, after a short time, they end up saying goodbye to the workers without the Board doing anything to prevent it, not even to compensate for those aids that have failed to create and maintain employment. But it's also a reality that in many companies today, in many companies, part-time contracts are made for a larger day, which doubles the time that is in the contract itself. The drop in unemployment in March highlights the type of job being created. After a lot of applause and a lot of applause in the press, and great praise for the well-being of the Galician economy and the decline in employment, when we analyzed it, we found that the job being created is precarious, in sectors of low added value, such as trade, housing or construction, which create unstable jobs and with very low wages. We need to create industry, we need to bet on industry, we need to bet on technology, investment in R & D+i. The service and construction sector will not solve the labour problems, the economic problems and the need to develop our country. Half of all other affiliates have a precarious, temporary or part-time contract. The companies that have been late and paid something frequently in recent years, go from microcompanies in the service sector to large administration contracts, which win public tenders with bids at the bottom. The Administration pays millions, but the companies that manage the service don't pay their workers and workers. 240 workers were affected in 2014 by defaults in different administrative concessions, among which we already cited in the interpellation, in addition to the Hotel Palacio de Sober, the Pajos Group, which has several public pools, Linorsa, Cleanet, Clece, the Galician network of kiosks, and we could follow and follow. How did Junta respond to all these cases cited? With mutism, claiming, as always, that it is not his competence, because for this government, when a concessionary company steals its workers, it is not a problem of breach of the contract that the company has with its own administration, no! it becomes a problem of the workers with the concessionary company. So, of course, what's a strong bet on protecting companies that violate legality, and so on, apart from leaving workers unprotected, they deprotect companies that work hard to comply with legality and social security contributions. That's how the People's Party sees the rights of workers and workers! Many of these workers, in the face of unpaid wages continued for months, but who also obliges them to pay for the travel expenses from their homes to their work centres, end up asking for the bill and leaving, because besides the legislation it doesn't favor the workers much more, since, in case they ask for compensation and the employer doesn't pay, the only thing left is the way to unemployment. These situations create serious situations of precariousness, not only because of the loss of employment, but also because of the poverty that it creates later, because of lower unemployment benefit and lower retirement benefit. While the employer, in addition to solving a problem by paying less for a full day or paying for a part-time contract, will also get less compensation. That is why in this motion we urge the Government of the State to transfer executive competence in the field of labour and labour relations to Galicia, which, in any case, should include labour relations and working conditions, collective bargaining, the sanctioning power of infringements in social order in the field of their competences. Two. To urge the Government of the State to transfer the executive competence of the Public Service Inspector to the Galician Union. For this purpose, the staff member of the Labour Inspectorate will depend organicly and functionally on the Board. Three. The Galician Parliament urges the Union to exclude from the process of selecting and recruiting companies and services of the Greek administration for a period of two years those companies convicted of crimes against workers or that they have used public funds for purposes other than those for which they have been tried. Let us hope that in this propaganda of transparency, in that propaganda of support for sectors and businesses that fulfil legality, in that propaganda of support for the rights of workers and workers in Greece, the People's Party has the right to approve this motion, and for once assumes its responsibility for the Government and calls for competences to be able to govern. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u157	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u158	Good morning to all and to all. From Alternative Left Galicia we announced the support for the motion presented by the Joint Group for several fundamental issues that I will try to list in this intervention. The first is that the current situation on the labour market has not only to do with the economic crisis, but also with the reforming action that the People's Party exercised in the legislature; a legislative action that it intended to directly end with the few labour rights that the working class already had in this country, and therefore grant absolute, absolutist power to the employer, to lower wages, to increase insecurity and, above all, to avoid the negotiable capacity that workers and organized workers had with the entrepreneurs. All that has caused was an absolutely unfair labour market, where what is offered are wages of misery and working days of exploitation. That's how the hour cost worked is already below the hour cost worked in 2012; therefore, we are in a brutal retreat caused by the policies of the People's Party. Anyone, if you look at the papers or the job search pages today, can find how jobs are already offered without pay. The only thing left to the People's Party is to also reach the time when these ads are: "We guarantee that there will be no physical punishment," because that's what's left in our labour market. 90% of the new contracts are temporary contracts, and of these, 35% are part-time contracts. And so when we're talking about a proposal that talks, for example, about the need to intervene in the Galician inspection, we have to denounce the ideological drift and the initiatives that have since the Central Government are moving to the Labour Inspectorate; Labour Inspectorate that, if it should be a body that has been used to control labour exploitation, to ensure labour rights, has become an instrument of criminalization of workers, who have to accept irregular conditions or work by charging for unemployment. That's why this quota inspector's work is 57.8% of the inspections carried out in this country, compared to 10.9% of the inspections concerned with the recognition of labour rights. Today it is impossible for many workers to have the right to their lower pay, to have their licenses; even if they question in many cases that a worker may accompany his child to the doctor, as he has recognized in the Staff Regulations of Workers. All this because there is a political drift that you're trying to use the Labour Inspectorate to criminalize the unemployed and, therefore, acting at this time on the unemployed, which is precisely now at least protection they have, with the only objective that this stigma contributes to the policy of the People's Party to eliminate unemployment benefits. That's the reality of what exists behind these actions. We therefore believe that it is necessary to assume from Galicia, but in order to direct the inspectoral action to those things where fraud is, because we cannot forget that, when a worker is pursued, what can't be stopped from pursuing the employer, who uses his situation of necessity to exploit this worker or this worker. But these are precisely the ones who receive the welcome of the Council of Galicia, and not, as it was said here, just looking to the other side when there is a conflict, but directly promoting these kinds of actions. I again denounce that the advisor and the president use companies that exploit workers, who have work days of 10 and 12 hours, to present their employment programs, because that's what the People's Party wants. This is so much so that the absent labour advisor, who never has the dignity to attend the debates that have to do with his responsibilities, because he is a [...], because he is doing more for increasing unemployment and the low quality of our wages in this country, would have to explain how he is not here today while he has already finished two hours ago in that State Council of Young People. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] He could be here today, and above all he could be here because he's been deceiving people who were attending that congress; I was fooling them because, for example, he didn't explain how the benefits aren't included in the technical assistance that the deaf people need, that I'm part of, and I know very well that the Council doesn't give a single weight to technical assistance in that sense. So we support the proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u160	...but especially for that final part that says you can't continue to hire companies that exploit. For example, Foelca, in Barbados, receives tens of millions of euros and has its workers unpaid for nine months. Imagine that you haven't received Parliament's payroll for nine months, you probably wouldn't be here so quiet. What's the matter is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo, time is up. Time's up, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Besides, there's a personal charge I've already told you that I'm not going to tolerate; we leave them out. I'm not going to repeat the particular charges you called Counselor Yes, but you know what's going on? That the advisor isn't... and the counselor isn't... No, no, with an order call. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Nobody stops you from talking about management, but you can't make direct and personal accusations, I told you. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Socialist Group. You have a word with Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u162	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Group wants to announce the vote in favour of this motion. At your third and fourth point, I believe that it has already been presented in this Parliament and we shall vote in favour of it. Therefore, we understand from the Socialist Group that regulations are tools to recover – we understand – the viability of companies; that is, to say, the greater legality, the better competition between all companies and the greater viability. So legislation guarantees us not to articulate fraud or allow it from administrations. It's about compliance with legislation and deterring possible abuses and fraudulent practices, and we're not saying anything that doesn't happen or skip the media, and, unfortunately, we're seeing it in such terrible times of crisis, day by day. Therefore, the mechanisms needed to detect these irregular processes must be enabled, the processes involving corrupt practices. It is true that there is legislation, it is true that you are seeing this legislation leap more than necessary, that there are too many problems – more than necessary – and that administrations do not carry out sufficient mechanisms – because otherwise it would not happen – to avoid this. Applying the laws rigorously we understand that it is very necessary, especially with those who gain benefits for their contracts with public administrations, especially for their contracts with the Council of Galicia. Therefore, legislation is obliged to apply it – so far we could get there! – but with maximum prevention to prevent fraudsters and corrupt people from taking advantage of the effort and suffering of citizenship. The administrations, we understand from the Socialist Group, are obliged to be the guarantors of their administrations. We must comply with the law. It is something that no one else escapes from us, but from the administration we must put in place all mechanisms to make that compliance effective and therefore demand the necessary mechanisms to ensure compliance with that legality. Society demands the regulation and the correct application of good practice by public administrations and politicians as well. It would be essential for public administrations and businesses as well, but, as I said earlier, mainly those companies that are tax-adjusting public administrations, which must be the most transparent and must be where the administrations put the most emphasis. Galicia has a bloody problem with unemployment, emigration and depopulation. It counts today with less than a million active people. The increase in unemployment is above 62%, wages are about 12% below the state average, one of the lowest in all autonomous communities. And if we talk about a working day, we work more to charge less than the Spanish average. So we live a credential reality, despite the publicity and propaganda of the People's Party. Today, these last few days, he draws attention because everything seems to rise, that everything is multiplied, that everything is inaugurated; Galicia is the country of wonders. It's really obscene to see these things in a country that's being depopulated, where their Thursdays have to emigrate, and unemployment, despite the popular party's falsities in Galicia, is not good. The crisis has increased social differences, increased business incomes and plummeted employment incomes; therefore, it seems to be an abuse allowed. More than 50% of the youth are unemployed, and more than 40% are left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u163	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u164	...to find himself in a situation of permanent precariousness. In this terrible scenario it is therefore essential – I repeat, I have said it earlier – a strict control, and it must be said that there is no strict control. I'm no exception to those companies that are public prosecutors and are involved in corruption problems. The obligation to comply with this and the effectiveness of the proximity and compliance of the laws not only favours all companies, but primarily favours decency for the administrations. The eruption of public corruption scandals degrades the image of the administrations and their administrations. Not only are they corrupt individuals, but when companies are involved, public law firms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u166	...–reduced with a sentence–, they are in this process, they degrade the administration itself. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Quintas, you have not chosen the most appropriate day to speak of political corruption and obscenities, on the same day as Mr. Chaves, President of the Andalusian Board, declares at the Supreme Court for the scandal, obscenity, of the ERE. Therefore, lessons today don't correspond to you. Regarding Mr. Fajardo's criticism of the Labour and Wellness Council and his incumbent, I have to tell him that the head of the Labour and Welfare Council develops its activity with all dignity, and he proves that yesterday at the Sectoral Employment Conference the Employment and Wellness Councillor – which you are so critical – has managed that the funds for active employment policies in 2015 – state funds – will increase by 14%, up to the figure of 113 million euros, thanks to the good management of the Labour and Welfare Council, which you are so critical. And why are they criticizing her? Because the fact is that the policies that are being developed in Galicia are producing results, and it proves that there are 24,000 unemployed today in Galicia less than a year ago, as much as you're upset about it and 8% have reduced unemployment in Galicia in the last year. That's the reality, 17,000 more members of Social Security, which we've had 17 consecutive months of international unemployment reductions in Galicia. That's an indisputable reality, which not only happens in Galicia, but also in Spain, that's why there's in Spain 500,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago, as much as it bothers you, and unemployment has been reduced to 7%. With regard to the motion presented by the Joint Group today, I have to tell you that it shows a deep ignorance of the prevailing labour legislation in Galicia. On point 1, transfer of powers, you ask the Government of the State to transfer to the Board of Executive Jurisdictions in the field of work and labour relations. In this sense, it should be noted that the Self-Government Statute itself lays down in Article 29.1 which corresponds to the Autonomous Community of Galicia the execution of the State's labour legislation, assuming the powers, powers and services in that field, at the level of execution, correspond to the State in respect of labour relations, without prejudice to its high inspection. Therefore, Galicia has already transferred the competence of execution on these matters, Mrs. Martínez; some subjects that are transferred thanks to the Statute of Autonomy and also through Royal Decree 2412/1982 of July 24. You're talking about the Labour Inspectorate. In that sense, I have to tell you that the 1997 Labour and Social Security Inspection Computer Act determines that officials who integrate the labour and social security inspection system are organically dependent on the State administration and functionally on the state or self-government, depending on the scope of their competence. In the same sense, the project of the new Labour Inspection Management Act, which has just been referred to the General Courts for processing. In that new normative text – which you should know – what is configured is as an autonomous body, with a greater participation of the autonomous communities. That's what happens to the Labour Inspectorate. With regard to cooperation mechanisms – of which you were talking – we have to tell you that the Territorial Labour Inspection and Social Security Commission is already in place; that body already exists. You speak of public procurement at the third point of your motion and demand that companies with convictions for crimes against workers' rights be excluded in public procurement proceedings. What we have to tell you is that in this sense it is necessary to indicate that this possibility is already covered in the existing legal system, in particular in Article 49.1 of the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. I will not read article 49.1. You speak of public subsidies, and we have to tell you that in the Galician Grants Act it is provided for in Article 56 as a very serious breach of non-application in all or part of the amounts received for the purposes for which the grant was granted, by sanctioning such behaviours with pecuniary fines, which may also lead to loss...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u169	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u170	...for a period of up to five years, the possibility of obtaining public aid grants. Finally, Mrs Martínez, this motion is meaningless; it only highlights the lack of knowledge of the Joint Working Group. What you're asking for is already underway in our community, and what I propose is that in the next plenary session with the best-studyed lesson. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u171	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in respect of the projects submitted by the Galician Union to the Central Government in relation to the European aid corresponding to the Juncker Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u172	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u173	Mr. Losada has the floor for the defense of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, even though Mr. Manuel Chaves is declaring himself in the Supreme Court, I can talk here about the judiciary cars in which the money in B of the People's Party is being discussed, because these are two absolutely compatible issues. [[Applause]] I'm saying it if it's not methodologically clear the procedure. [[Applause]] And by the way, I'm not going to say that the work advisor is outraged, I'm going to say that he's an incompetent -- I hope he can say it -- because, among other things... –Oh!, I have class privileges – the cuts have amounted to EUR 867 million since Mr Feijó's rule in his council, and the non-execution, in addition to that cut, EUR 765 million; i.e. more than EUR 1,500 million that Mrs Mato's competition literally volatileed precisely for those people – the unemployed and the users of social policies – most affected by the crisis. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, I think you could qualify in many ways, but since I don't want you to call me in order, I'm going to save the qualification. The new advisor to Fairy the other day delighted us in the motion with a pause reading of the information leaflet of the Economic Stimulation Plan, known as "Plan Juncker". The truth is, for those who hadn't read it, I suppose it was a very interesting intellectual contribution; for those who had read it the truth is that, even in terms of entomation, it left quite a wish. I would like it if I had pretended to represent the problems of the real economy of Galicia, Spain and many countries in Europe in connection with this issue; issues of which, unfortunately, in ten more minutes the councillor of Fairy was unable to say a single word. There was no unemployment, there was no poverty, there was no inequality, there was no social exclusion; there was macro-economicism, which is very good, it reflects a part of reality, but, undoubtedly, it does not reflect the fundamental part of reality, at least seen from the left. I understand that the macroeconomic frameworks that are sent to Brussels are merely indicative elements for the People's Party; that is, compliance is not at all linked to the consequences of those numbers that are written in papers, in power points that are actually sent to the European Union. And I would like to hear from those who rule in Galicia and Spain the commitment to solutions to the problems resulting from those policies that appear reflected in the macroeconomic frameworks, and hence in the budgets of this government. The adviser also solemnly told us to send investment proposals from the Government of Galicia to the Government of Spain. The honourable Member immediately, with all the humility that characterizes it, by Article 9 – an absolutely ad hoc regulatory route within the most absolute Orthodoxy and parliamentary courtesy – asked them to do so. The truth is, if they were already printed and were already sent to Madrid, I'm surprised that in twenty-one days I haven't been here yet. It seems that he was perfectly closed the investment package, the one that his new advisor, I don't know whether he works for himself or heir to the candidate of the People's Party to the mayor of Vigo and the former advisor of Fairy... that, by the way, he has every free mornings, despite being the function of the group A of the Unity of Galicia, which I envy, I would admit that in the end... I would like to, when I return to college, at my place, to have a couple of mesins to walk around Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure... No, no, I don't have them for now, Mr. Puy. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I would appreciate it, President, that Professor Puy's intellectual contributions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u176	Thank you. [[Laughter]] Well, the truth is, the Juncker Plan, transport infrastructures, R+D+i, broadband... yes, but there is, Mr. Puy, as you well know, full-time employees... [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u177	Mr. Losada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u178	... –Mr. President! – who work in the elected public administration and are also walking around Vigo every morning. If you want, I'll give you the name; if you have any doubts, I'll tell you the name. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, they didn't even have to ask for reinstatement anymore because they never left her. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, Plan Juncker, yes, yes, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] Juncker Plan, it has to do with Juncker Plan. Because you know what it has to do with it, Mr. Puy? It has to do with ethics. Of course, yes, yes, Knight, of course; Knight is a professor of university and, therefore, officer of group A, and is in excess since he entered the Harbour Authority of Vigo, of course; i don't know what the matter is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] There are others – I insist – who are charging a full-time public salary in a public body... which is not true?, is it false? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Peter, I don't mean the name here, man!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u179	Let's go to Plan Juncker.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u180	Don't provoke me. I don't mean the name here, but, come on! Like it's not true? [[Murmurs.]] So you're working for free? [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, good. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I don't know if it's the debate, Mr. Puy, but what's true is that you haven't done what you had to do since Galician Union in connection with the public investment problems linked to the Juncker Plan. And it wasn't done in any of the areas that the Juncker Plan places in the central elements of development policy in Europe, and one of them is without a doubt innovation. On the other day, the members of the 6th Commission had to attend, I think that surprises – even those of the People's Party – like the director of the Galician Innovation Agency told us that the Government had incorporated our contributions to the famous RIS3 Strategy – which must have been in a parallel life, because they didn't ask them and therefore we didn't have occasion to give them, but in any case, the man said it there, came with written paper and tinkpoum–. Well, we're still in the legitimacy and self-esteem of politics. On the other hand, with regard to energy... today we have in the media a relevant news of how in Mr. Feijóo's Wind Plan – which was 16,000 jobs, 6 billion euros, etc. – the Spanish Government itself has now put the cut in half. And we must also hear Mr. Count say here that 83% of the plans are ahead and windmills are opening up throughout the autonomous community. And what is most surprising, seeing the industrial occupation data, is that industrial investments parallel to wind installations multiply across this entire autonomous community, especially in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense – that we all know they lead Spain's per capita income. Well, the truth is that this Juncker Plan, which I myself said was gradually denaturalizing but that it claims the role it played on the left in proposing the possibility that there would be public money from European funds to reactivate the European economy, advances. And in this line is where the motion we present goes. The first question is quite obvious. To me it's hard to imagine that they can vote against it, because it's an absolutely innocent, constructive, positive motion, of those that in Mr. Conde's language hold hands, in this case not the opposition but the government. So I imagine the vote will be affirmative. First, the ratio of the projects presented. I repeat again, if it was done three weeks ago, please send it to you, even by fax – although now it has become obsolete in terms of technology –. The second is the technical reports on which these projects were based, because I suppose it wouldn't be a random question, of Russian roulette, of these, of, well, because we asked for this and the other. There will be a technical basis for the role these projects play in creating jobs or promoting economic development. The truth is that I believe these two issues are quite reasonable, which are even outside the scope of the dangerous socialist collectiveist ideology that can jeopardize the macroeconomic balances of this autonomous community. I insist, the list of projects and the technical reports they are based on. The third – pure common sense – that these projects integrate into the already advertised – and we jump to the advertising and propaganda plan – Economic planning plan 2015-2020. Given the real scandalous bluff of the previous plan – that of Mrs Fernández Currás – because we hope these projects will be incorporated in it. I think it's also quite...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u181	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u182	...–I have finished, Mr President – reasonable. The fourth point: that this plan on it is sent to Parliament to make contributions and so, when the Government comes and says that the opposition groups have not made contributions, it can say – without lying and without ethical or moral conflicts – that we have not done so because we do not want to, not because we have not been given a chance to make them. And the last point: to sue the Government of Spain I think that two things are quite reasonable. First of all, to ensure that investments for economic development and job creation do not include the deficit and that they are therefore outside the mechanisms of macroeconomic conditionality – which you like so much –... by the way, France and Italy are pressing on that line, and by the way, they also have less than half unemployment than we do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u183	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u184	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u185	It's over, yes, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u186	Yes, yes. And the next point is, in fact, to also consider the European Investment Bank as an element of public investment, which, unfortunately, by the dirty rags of the Igape, has been taking on the freezer for four years in this autonomous community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u187	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u188	Good morning to all and to all. There are alternatives to measures of cutting and murderous austerity, and there are two types: those that are inserted within the doctrine of the capitalist system, with the aim of naively humanizing its face, and those that respond to the very essence of capitalism to put people above the lucrative and speculative interests of lovers of the market. Where do you insert the Juncker Plan declaration lines? It's good to know what Juncker's specialty is. It's a financial juggler, an expert in optimizing; euphemism which means regularly and legally stealing, as it seems and demonstrates its role in the dark projects secretly signed in Luxembourg and which has allowed more than 350 multinationals to avoid the ethical and moral obligation to tax in the country where they develop their business tasks, plundering the value generated by workers and workers who float freely into tax havens. These facts make us suspect of the supposed kindness of the plan that bears the name of the juggler. What are we talking about, then, of the lesser evil, perhaps, of forcing EU managers and the different Member States to completely forget about neoliberal austerity, of not forcing the state and national economies to adopt structural reforms that undermine the future of our democracy? We live in a climate of budgetary contraction and the EU invents this Juncker Plan, which aims to convert every public euro into 15 euros of private investment, so that the 21 billion will become 315,000 million. In any case, insufficient to compensate for the EUR 500,000 million lost since 2007. We are on the path of an insufficient desire for correction for the well-being and dignity of people's lives, but perhaps enough for the interests of capital. But finally, as it is said, it is nothing less, if well the evils of the system will remain vigilant and active, because, as Piketty put it carefully – we believe – inequality is consistent with capitalism. In addition, linking social well-being with job creation may no longer be a sufficient option if we don't change from a production model system, if we don't transform work philosophy, and nothing is possible with the crooked lines of the Lisbon Treaty. It will always remain, at least, a high percentage, above 15%, of people in unemployment, at risk of social exclusion, and we believe that this in democracy is inescapable. The EU, as the game of commercial and business interests is divided, will not leave the loop in which it is settled. A plan without sufficient public funding is born dead. Moreover, the fact that investments are based on economic and not social profitability is an argument in favour of oligarchies and goes against the criterion of reducing people's impoverishment. Therefore, the criterion of allocation of resources is denouncing, because it is not done according to the social need, the ecological sustainability, the distribution by countries or sectors, but simply according to its economic viability. In this context, since the Alternative Left Galaga we have been asked what the Welsh Executive did about the Juncker Plan. We have already done this at the initiative registered in December 2014 and which is essentially collected by the second point of the resolution of the Socialist Party's motion. However, from this request for information, as I made it record in the previous plenary session, we are left with two additional information detailed and recorded as an amendment to addendum. What are the projects requested to allow Galicia to move towards a new production model, less dependent on the infrastructure and real estate sector and the services sector? And that is why we are also asked to be transferred to Parliament reports that assess the impacts and benefits aimed at reducing the number of impoverished people at risk of social exclusion in Galicia. That is, we need to know which projects are based on equity and social cohesion and which were the environmental criteria. Logically, we agree with the remaining demands of the Socialist Party's motion, especially in that it does not compete in economic macroconditionality with the ultra-liberal Damocles sword. And as we've already said throughout our exhibition, it's necessary that public investment be a priority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u189	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u190	...in order not to be dependent on the interests of the private sector, because that logically implies that the Spanish State contributes more deeply, in the same way as it has contributed, to sanitation, without any kind of complexes, the private bank. The Juncker Plan does not like us because we don't like Juncker, we don't like the way the European Union is headed; however, these little drops are necessary, precisely, to help undo the path of neoliberal austerity, which we know it kills. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u192	Thank you, President. Isn't Mr. Tellado here? I don't see it, it's a shame, because I was going to tell you that there's no way to talk about last and without reply to say [...], that they stay there. [[By order of the President, Santalices Vieira, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u193	That expression is withdrawn. No one says [...] here, Mrs. Martínez. That expression is removed with the so-called order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u194	No one wants to say [...], but sometimes it goes in [...]. I speak for myself, for you and for Tellado; I speak for all of us here. [[Laughter]] Well, let's talk about Plan Juncker. In Galicia we have lost millions of euros of European aid. The European Commission has initiated a number of infringement proceedings against the Spanish State, determined by the Court of Justice of the European Union by failing to comply with the Molluscs Directive in 2005 and 2011 with the Waste Water Treatment Directive and the Water Framework Directive. The House of Ourense must pay back more than 10 million euros of EU funds for the installation of a hundred rural debuggers OLAF considers to be wasted between 2003 and 2004. The director himself of Europe's Smart and Sustainable Growth, Charlina Vicchieva, urged Galicia to abandon the cement model by a model of knowledge; something so that the Galician Union and the People's Party should fall in shame, that someone tell you that they have to bet on knowledge to a government. Galicia occupies 193 of the 262 regions in the regional competitiveness index, and needs to improve the penetration of ICT – namely the European Commission, I do not say it or the Joint Group – the quality of the labour market, the R & D effort and the coordination of infrastructure. Just all these issues were discussed in this Parliament at the initiative of the opposition, and each and every one of them received the vote against the People's Party. Not only is the job destroyed, but the conditions of work are substantially changed, so today workers and workers are increasing on a full day that they are poor. The average household income in Galicia dropped by more than 100 euros per month. People who don't have any kind of income continue to increase, being around 28,000 families in Galicia in that situation. It is therefore necessary to change the pace of our economy. And it's surprising that since the elections have been convened this election year, let's listen and have here laws and laws and bills, not law, of the People's Party talking about transparency, that the opposition doesn't want to participate, that they call us to participate, that they are open to dialogue... and it turns out that on a topic like this, where you're going to decide which are the important points in Galicia to dynamize the economy with the Juncker Plan, the board doesn't talk to anyone. Only the People's Party decides the projects, and we have to come to the plenary and ask that please tell us what you think money should be devoted to, and besides, in the pursuit of transparency and pure democracy that characterizes them to you, accept that we can even provide some idea. It's a scandal of antidemocratic practice, of tyranny of the majority of parliament over the others. Because I don't know if there's any industrial development plans between these projects to close the productive cycles in Galicia. We have, for example, a pendant to close the productive cycles of stone, granite, slate. We have, for example, also pendant to defend our preserve, preventing it from confusing itself with fish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u195	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u196	...who's coming from the kiln. It is essential to reach an agreement for our forest and agribusiness sector to save our mountain and at the same time serve as a source of income, as a source of economy and quality work. We have to get back the wharves from the coast, we have to fight for our natural marqueo banks. Time's up. I would have much more to do, but I believe that if all the debates in this House were reviewed, you would have many points to support. Nothing else. Oh, well, and support for the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a motion as a result of an appeal, that of the Juncker Plan, which is a proposal by the President of the European Commission. Mr Juncker was elected President of the European Commission by the votes of the People's Group and the votes of the Socialist Group... Yeah, with the same precision, we're going to explain exactly why you're in favour of it or you're not in favour of it, but basically what this plan consists of. What does it consist of? It's an initiative in preparation and preparation. Here you are presenting the theme of the Juncker Plan as if it were already a finished topic, as if you had the funding gained and only the administrations of the European countries had to present only instances with projects. So we say, that's not exactly the way it is. Here he explained to the Fairy Counsellor exactly what the Juncker Plan consists of in the interpellation, and I must repeat it because it seems to be not sufficiently clarified. It is a proposal that is in initial stages, not in final phases; it is a project of intentions that consists of the following... – I did not interrupt, that I know, others when they intervene –: the European Union will be able to have a certain amount of funds, plus another amount that could be provided by the European Investment Bank, so that together they put together 21 billion euros; but those 21 billion euros should result in mobilizing up to 300,000 million euros, which is being sought out of that funding. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] I mean, this is a project that's still in search of funding. Secondly, there is a requirement that the projects to be carried out, the difference between previous projects of European policy, will not be subsidisations in full or will not be grants with participation, but must be self-financing projects in their operation. I mean, they have to gain a guarantee of profitability, not just focus on office and make projects, but they have to have funding partners, they have to have management partners, etc., etc. In other words, it is being requested that documentation be delivered now of the entire management process that is being used both in Europe and in the states as well as in the autonomous communities. So what's going on? By providing basic information for projects of intention for the European Commission to know the general lines of demands, claims, initiatives that are somehow fighting all the states of the European Union to know about the priorities that are in the mindset and hypothetical efforts of future management of different countries. The board said: we have enough and enough and that's what we remitted, and explained the basic characteristics, which, as you can understand, are of a type of infrastructure, of an energy type, of a social type; that is, as a basic modeling at that time. So, exclusively this kind of motion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u199	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u200	...is intended to give the image that the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party of Unity, first, has no idea; secondly, that it will be overcome by incompetence and inability, inertia or ignorance; and thirdly, that it is occult with respect to the other opposition groups. It's exclusively this, an initiative oriented towards this, to do all this sort of political turning, so to speak, to use this kind of motion that has no relation to the process, the background and the reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u201	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Motion author group. Mr. Losada has the floor, please. Give a voice to Mr. Losada's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u202	Yes, thank you, Madam President. As always, I appreciate Mr Arias' accuracy and contributions. Indeed, the Socialist Group of the PSOE abstained in the appointment of Mr Juncker – I see he was forgotten in the fragrance of intellectual and political debate – and, of course, I will not be the one to defend Mr Juncker. I am in favour of the European Commission's proactive action on incentives for economic development and job creation. I don't care what Mr. Juncker or the Holy Spirit did. That's what I'm saying. And by the way, Mr Arias, if really the projects are so preliminary, so informative, so... as you said exactly, that it was the European Union's perception of what the sensations were, look, no, no, the European Commission doesn't work with sensations, it works with politics and political decisions. And by the way, the counsellor three weeks ago... well, you said, maybe he meant something else, but I don't have a decoder, I heard sensations. [[Laughter]] Certainly, what the counselor said was that projects had been sent to Madrid for Madrid to move them to Europe. We're the only ones we ask for is something as simple at the first point as providing us to the opposition groups of those projects. It seems to me that it is not a defaced subject or any revolutionary collectiveist measure, especially so that then the counsellor may legitimately, when he comes here or the president or any director general, say that they have asked for the contributions of the opposition groups and, if they want, complain that we do not provide them. What we find absolutely scandalous and immoral – and I will not withdraw it – is that members of this government blame us that we do not make comments or killings to their plans when objectively we are not offered the slightest possibility of doing so – I speak for the advice to which I follow: neither Ris3 nor I2C nor Industry 4.0; that is, since that first general plan of 2010-2014 there was no other document of an economic nature, except budgets, in which contributions from the opposition parties were accepted. So I think it would be good to at least not miss the truth when you intervene in Parliament. I'm going to accept how you add the amendment of Alternative Left Galeg. And, I insist, I hope that that statement of intentions of the Greek Government, even if that's all, if it's all that's provided to us, because it can be two things: that it doesn't exist and that, again, we're still here with the advertising or propaganda department, or that it's a real barbarous...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u204	...because if not, someone will have to explain why it's not provided. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u205	Thank you very much. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u206	We passed the motions. We shut the doors. We voted firstly on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Caamaño Domínguez, to which no amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Caamaño Domínguez, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the establishment of a commission for the analysis of the situation of the Greek language and, if so, the updating of the Linguistic Standardization Plan, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u207	We voted on the motion by the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Martínez García, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. by the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the demand for the transfer to Galicia of executive competences in the field of work, labor relations and inspectoral public function and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to guarantee the rights of workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u208	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Losada Álvarez, who said that he accepted as an amendment to the amendment of Alternative Left Galicia. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in respect of the projects submitted by the Galician Union to the Central Government in relation to the European aid corresponding to the Juncker Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u209	We'll stop the session until this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u210	Let's restart the non-law proposition point session. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the refund of taxes and charges wrongly charged to the Greek sailors in Norway
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u211	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Blocs of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u212	Mr Fajardo Recouso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u213	Good afternoon, everyone. [[Pause.]] Nothing happened because I had lost some time; I already have a yellow card, nothing happened next. The Long Hope Association visitors were passing the security check, so I was giving it to you there thirty seconds, which was not to win the game unfairly, but it was for the sailors who accompanied us to be present. We have brought a proposal that in its formulation is simple in the sense that we want a unanimous agreement that allows us to continue on the line of defense of what is fair, and what is fair is to accompany, defend and be beside those who were cheated, who were nonexistent and – I tell you directly – stolen by the Norwegian authorities. As many of those who are here know, we are talking about more than 8,000 Greek sailors who worked in the Norwegian merchants before 94 and the Norwegian state owes them – because I want to refer to this – more than 640 million euros. Since they were discriminated against on account of their origin, because of their nationality and while in theory they had the same rights as the national sailors of these merchants, the reality is that, despite paying the same taxes as the other sailors, they did not receive any benefit or any of the services that were served by those who were nationals of Norway. So much so that these sailors from their payrolls provided about 54% of their salary to build the state of Norwegian welfare, of which they did not benefit, and that he then denied them a benefit as can be retirement. And now they're not asking if they're paid that retirement, they're just asking for the money unduly paid by the Norwegian state to be returned. And this is not only fair, it's not only a claim we share, but the Norwegian state itself knows it is. In two official communications from the Norwegian State, after two meetings in which I had the opportunity to participate in the hand of these sailors in Oslo, the Norwegian State could only acknowledge that it had discriminated against these sailors, and was unable to give a single objective reason to deny them the right; in fact, communications are ambiguous enough to make it clear that the Norwegian State knows that it has an obligation to pay these sailors the money stolen from their wages. So, in addition, because there's a background, not only a background in other states, but also a background in that, for example, of the dives that worked on the oil platforms in the North Sea, also in Norway, and which have just won just six months ago, a legal dispute for which they have the right to receive these benefits. But the problem with this situation is that these sailors have been claiming a reality for more than 20 years and have been alone, have not had the support of the institutions or understanding and, above all, the support of the Government. What kind of state, what kind of ruler is he who leaves 8,000 of his in front of a state that cheats them? How can one qualify representatives of a government who, in the face of an unfair, recognized, and legally justifiable, leave their neighbours and their abandoned neighbours in the face of that state that cheated them? Maybe it's that government that's incapable of defending its own simply because it's part of that friendly capitalism where partners don't fight between themselves, even though it means leaving orphans to neighbors and neighbors of the Greek country. And it's so much so that this collective hasn't even been received by the president of this country, by Núñez Feijóo, who has time for everything, absolutely for everything, less to receive all those who are massacred by politics or decisions, as is the case of the Greek sailors affected by this issue of Norway. And it had to be them again who started the battle and who are doing all the effort the Administration should make. They had to be them, sailors over 70 years old, with their families, those who have been years - and now in particular more than six months - kicking Europe, kicking their state, kicking Galicia and claiming something that is fair and so a serious and responsible government had negotiated bilaterally and directly with the other State involved, in this case the Norwegian State. There are now news, there is already a report from the State's lawyer that raises the possibility that the State itself could at some point take charge of the complaint before the European Court of Human Rights. There is the commitment of the Ambassador of Spain in Norway, but there is no commitment from the state or much less from the Council of Galicia, which, despite having three unanimous agreements in this Parliament, is unable to exercise its responsibilities and defend and at least accompany these sailors in their search for their money to be returned. We're in the case of Norwegian favorites, we're in the face of a new scam by a government that's unable to recognize that he's scared, cheated and robbed our sailors. Therefore, those who have been defrauded, frightened and stolen by the Norwegian Government need powerful action from the Council of Galicia and the State. We are asking for bilateral and forceful action, because we know that it is necessary, and that with a mere negotiation action the Norwegian State is willing to reach a final-point agreement. But in addition to that, the State, the Galician Union, should enable sufficient mechanisms to be able to put the quantities necessary for these sailors to defend their rights before the Norwegian courts and before the European Court. Today, the cost of this demand, compared with the EUR 400,000 previously claimed to start, is less than EUR 60,000. Therefore, the Government should at least enable those matches so that it can meet a demand that it should never have begun, if we had a responsible government and a government capable of defending its own. By the way, a government that has no provision, a president that has no provision, according to the dictionary is an unworthy president because it says the dictionary that unworthy is the one that has no provision. Therefore, we are in front of a [...], unable to defend what is right, as are their sea workers in front of the Norwegian state. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Looks like someone's still bothering us to say these questions. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, it should be recalled that the Norwegian State ratified the European Declaration of Human Rights before Europe, and this European declaration, in its Article 14, recognizes that workers cannot be discriminated against on the grounds of their origin and therefore workers must have the same rights regardless of their origin. And this is precisely where the legal demand of these sailors lies, because to perceive the pension was demanded by Norway that they had resided in Norway, whereas the Norwegians were given a pension even though they did not have a residence in Norway; that is, today there are Greek sailors who did not receive that pension, but instead there are Norwegian sailors who had a residence, for example, in Balearics who are receiving that pension. Therefore, their own decisions were in breach of that act and that agreement on European human rights and, therefore, before the European Court of Human Rights, such demand can be established, and it can be made by two ways: the individual demand of each mariner, but also the collective demand. And there are already documents that recognize the Spanish State as the possibility of appealing collectively on behalf of these sailors to the Norwegian Government for such non-compliance. So today, the only thing we are going to ask for is their solidarity, but above all the pressure for the Government to act, to establish immediate diplomatic relations with those who can make decisions, but above all to press, because it cannot be just the collective of the 8,000 Greek pensioners who pressure, it cannot be only their ability to mobilize, their tenacity, to stand up for this conflict, because they have already received slaps on the back of all governments is the time to, on the side of the little ones who are behind them, to receive the serious and direct commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u214	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u215	...this government. And those of us who were part of that delegation that was interviewed in Norway with the Norwegian Government know that the Norwegian Government is willing to reach an agreement, but to that end we need a responsible negotiator, a responsible government that is able to reach that agreement, which is what we are asking today. And, in addition, finally, it's not only the time to claim what these workers were not paid for, but also all those who have already died in this endeavour and all those who can die before the issue is resolved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u217	It seems that what the German Government wants is that it's less the number because its age means the closeness of death...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u219	...and it seems that you always play with these issues when you talk about the right of the German and Greek pensioners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u220	Mr. Fajardo, what's not worth in the morning is not worth it in the afternoon, and therefore with a second call to order, I withdraw the qualification prohibited by Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Intervention of parliamentary groups. By the Nationalist Block, Mr. Rodas Chapel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u221	Good afternoon, ladies. As has already been said here, Norway does not recognize the right to a retirement pension for our sailors who have been boarded in this country's fleet until 1994, arguing that they have no residence in this country, but that it has taxed them as if they were nationalized. This question has been denounced for a long time by the crew of long-sleeved sailors, whom I would like to welcome to this House, but the truth is, I don't see them. The complaints have already been passed in this House and, at best, there should be an explanation for the execution of these agreements. I remember that by 2010, BNG had brought a similar initiative that was supported by unanimity, demanding the Galician Union to exist from the Central Government commitment and agility to give a solution to the drama that lives more than 8,000 Welsh people affected by this situation; Greeks who have already traveled to many other instances to resolve this drama, before the Spanish Government, the European Union, with claims, meetings and at all levels, with visits to Oslo, Brussels, Madrid, with demonstrations and mergers; they have even brought the problem before the Norwegian People's Valedor, where they have moved that this country has raised 3.5 billion Norwegian crowns on income taxes between the 1970s and 1980s; an unmeasurable work of claiming abuse but also of human dignity, of dignity of the workers of the Greeks, to defend universal right to retirement. Since then, the Spanish State has not taken into account the parliamentary agreement, neither the questions nor the direct management of those affected, and we have agreed with Alternative Galga in which the Galician Union has abandoned its responsibility beyond mere media engagement. Beyond this engagement, I mean, nothing has been done. In the European Union too, they also disagreed on the legal basis of this deprotection until 1994, and they have moved very good words, but they circumscribed the problem to both states, urging both countries to sign a bilateral social security agreement. Therefore, the situation is simply dizzy, in the sense of smiles, good words, but without any progress, nor in the possible agreement between the Spanish Government and Norway, nor in the complaints of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, while concluding that this collective is the victim of serious social injustice. In recent months, thanks to the publication of the book, we have seen a question of human rights, of the protection of the social security of our sea workers, immigrants to Norway, drafted by our colleague and professor of maritime law, Xose Manuel Carril, and that a faster and more accurate solution was possible. This work is clearly designed to meet Norway's requirement of not being entitled to a retirement pension because it has no residence in its country since the European Convention on Human Rights. The solution to this denial of the right to retirement on grounds of nationality is collected in the European Convention on Human Rights itself through a specific system for the protection of the set of fundamental rights and freedoms that can be claimed, which we must demand through the application of a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights, which, as has been said earlier, includes two types: interstate demand and individual. Of the two possible demands, that of which it is the Spanish State itself, which denounces Norway for violation of the fundamental rights of those workers discriminated against on the grounds of their nationality is the most direct and would be the State which assumed the costs of this claim. The individual form, in this case through the Long Hope collective, is conditional upon the exhaustion of all internal administrative channels of the State; that is, before calling on Norway to the European Court of Human Rights, it was necessary to demand in the courts of the state to the last instance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u222	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u223	...and it seems that this is the choice that takes up the Spanish State itself. It's late, to our understanding, but we think it's necessary to do it without forgetting that it goes far, at least ten years. And as we're talking about a collective of a certain age, this option would be the slowest. So at the BNG we present this addition to collect what was already approved unanimously by all political forces, i.e....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u225	...to urge the Kingdom of Spain to report to Norway before the European Court of Human Rights – instead of being the seamen themselves, affected migrants – a solution that would put it in its fair term, or to approve what the Kingdom of Norway has carried out with the Greek sailors and which would allow a much faster solution, which is a good necessity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u226	Thank you very much. For the People's Group, Mr. Martínez-Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. This initiative is summed up in the long history that presents this matter, both at the state and autonomous level, and once again expresses the scarce success that has so far been achieved, despite the multiple managements carried out before the Norwegian State. This is one of the few issues that creates a great consensus between the various political forces, making this clear in the unanimous adoption of virtually all the initiatives presented at both the Congress of Deputies and the German Parliament. In essence, we all agree, that is, in the recognition of the right that our sailors have, who have worked for so many years on Norwegian flag ships, to receive a pension or economic counter-reimbursement for the years worked, or the return of taxes charged by that country's Farmer, retroactively and up-to-date to-date today, since the argument used to not recognize this benefit, that of not having resided on the ground, does not stand by international law in hand, as well as the excuse for the absence of an agreement that articulates the possibility of receiving this pension; both of us seem to have been excused by a poor payer, since they did not suspect any inconvenience in the case of other countries. The different Spanish governments worked for decades in search of the signing of this bilateral agreement on social security, and we know at least it was attempted in the years 1952, 1964 and 1970, being the most formal attempt in 1972, when, after two rounds of negotiation in Oslo and Madrid, it was about to sign up, returning to Norway at the last moment by the pressure of the shipowners' employer and the unions in this country on their Government. We know all this because of the declassification of documents by the Norwegian Administration, its Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and which were accessible to members of the Long Hope Association, who made them public. After this last attempt, the process slowed down until 2011, as we can read in the official reply given by the Central Government to the question put by the members of the Joint Group, where Norway's lack of cooperation to reach an agreement is once again expressed. We therefore believe that a new diplomatic offensive – possibly the last – should be promoted to the highest level, either directly between the two states or through the European institutions, in order to finally achieve this agreement. But this new round of negotiations should have a time limit, signaling a prudential deadline before leaving this road, so that this process will not be eternal, as it seems to be of interest to Norway. Once this deadline has been completed, or in parallel with diplomatic negotiations, Spain should take this case to the Strasbourg Court, according to the initiative recently adopted unanimously in this Parliament, since the Norwegian State has been very careful not to ratify international labour conventions which collide with its internal legislation, which excludes those persons who have no nationality or do not reside in the country, although they have signed international conventions and treaties on human rights that do not admit any form of discrimination on grounds of nationality, opening a door to initiate the judicial process. Our amendment – which is of substitution – is trying to collect it here, seeking to maintain unity and consensus among the political forces, since it is very difficult for us to accept an initiative which at point 1 proposes something that has been taking place for many years now, and does not recognize the effort and work done by the various governments and parliamentary groups over time, and which at point 2 requests something that you know is not possible to accept, since competences in foreign affairs are of the State, and beyond the functions of the Autonomous Community. Let's hope that the pre-election climate does not lead them to make the partisan interests prevail over those of our sailors, breaking the image of unity, which would only favor Norway's interests. And finally we want to express our solidarity with the actions carried out by both the sailors on a personal basis and through the Long Hope Association, who seek nothing but the recognition of a right that rightly and justly belongs to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u228	Thank you. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u229	Good afternoon to all and to all. I, as it is usually said colloquially, have just flouted with the intervention of the People's Party, because, of course, there have been multiple managements before the Norwegian Government is to take the hair off the sailors who have been fighting for years to get their pension. He also says that these multiple attempts were in the years 1952, 1964, 1970 and 1982, and that they then resumed in 2012 because of Norway's lack of collaboration. And besides, you blame them for the failure of these negotiations, which are said to have kept the Government of the State with Norway, for the union attitude, because it is clear that for the People's Party, trade unions are the greatest evil in the world and are dedicated to destroying jobs. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I told you once and I'll tell you again: trade unions are indispensable in democracy; all trade unions are indispensable, union plurality is indispensable, and trade unions defend workers' rights against their interests; a distinct role that the People's Party has, of course, and a distinct role to which they have political responsibilities. I therefore find it very sad that once again the People's Party is shielding their inoperation and their lack of ability to negotiate by blaming the unions. I'm not going to talk about the problem, the problem I think it's raised, that it's already been recognized by previous speakers, but if I mean we're in the face of a theft of a state to some workers, most of the Greeks, in the face of the impatience of the Greek Government, which, if it's not enough to be by the multiple manifestations and pressures of the affected mariners' group, would keep looking elsewhere. And we're in front of a robbery, because, as the spokesperson of the People's Party well recognized, international legislation itself establishes that the ship belongs to the flag it sails with; therefore, it can't be said that they are not residents, but they are residents within a section of that country, which in that case is sailing. So we're talking about the theft of the right to a benefit, because it's true that Norway doesn't recognize them either as immigrants in the country or as residents in the country or as workers for companies in the country. We are therefore faced with an initiative that incredibly had to come to this Parliament several times in order to be able to get ahead, despite the fact that the Greek Parliament has already approved in 2010 to maintain a firm attitude with the Central Government, with the aim of requiring it to end the drama of the Greek workers who worked on the Norwegian ships. There's a obvious problem of access and competence even, and we've had them all these years here, in the German Parliament, and a very short time ago, in the face of the popular party's refusal, which did not consider it necessary at that time to intervene. He said it was a problem of the workers with the state of Norway; and it's not true, there can never be a problem of the workers with a state, and much less if it's not their own. So it's a state problem and it's a problem of incompetence in the Spanish state and the German Government. So I hope that in this David's fight against Goliath from now on the People's Party's commitment is serious and really defends the interests of the Norwegian workers with the Norwegian ships before 1994 so that they may, if they do not perceive their benefit, because most of them are already over 80 years old, but recover that money they gave up to the Norwegian ships, from that they did not enjoy in any kind of service or for their services. I'm done, President. What I hope is that this will not be propaganda again and that it will not disappoint the Welsh sailors, as they were disappointed at the meeting they held last month with the Council of Galicia, in which, to begin with, they sent themselves to the Director-General for Institutional and Parliamentary Relations, who listened only to them, telling them that the situation was not easy, something that the sailors already know, and that they didn't need to receive them for it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u231	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all, also to the members who accompany us today from the gallery of Parliament. Today we are again debating an initiative that has been discussed on several occasions in this Parliament and that there are even unanimous agreements between all the political forces of this House to achieve a greater defence of the interests of the Greek sailors who worked on Norwegian ships until the 1990s. The last of these parliamentary agreements was adopted by the Committee on Fisheries and Maritime Affairs a few days ago, on 3 March 2015, and rightly stated: "The Galician Parliament urged the Government of Spain to adopt the legal measures corresponding to the application of Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights and to appeal against the Kingdom of Norway for failure to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, in violation of the prohibition on discrimination by nationality. It is therefore up to you to ask who is in the Government to know what you have done before this parliamentary agreement – which has already been discussed here – that you are probably over four years old. Finally, we are talking about a tremendously fair claim that affects a group of very large people, it is estimated that around 12,000 people in the whole state, of which close to 8,000 are Greeks who have worked on Norwegian flag boats and are found under the circumstances that the Spanish State does not recognize the cost of retirement the time worked in that country nor does the Norwegian country recognise that time worked on what they have been paying taxes and taxes like any Norwegian citizen, and in many cases the rates and taxes of about 50% of their salary. This claim – as I say – is not something new. The Long Hope collective has long been spreading an intense demanding work with writings, complaints, demonstrations, meetings and even visits to Norway itself, although unfortunately – it must also be said – with little success and little support from the Government of the State and the Council of Galicia, which, in addition, indeed, the Government itself is still unaware or has done nothing to try to answer this problem. We are, as I said before, in the face of a tremendously unfair situation, a situation of total and absolute de-protection of a group of people, of a group of Spanish citizens, who worked and quoted in Norway under the rules of that country, but today those who are not recognized as having their right to the provision, because, according to the Norwegian authorities themselves, they had no residence in that country, something that was not required of the Norwegians employed in the same ships as the Welsh sailors, a completely discriminatory situation. Therefore, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that we are already at a time when the People's Party cannot again raise arguments about the type of what they are working on, or that they are establishing contacts with different bodies, because even the European Union itself has recognized the right of these people to whom the benefit is recognised, and, if not, to whom the fees unduly charged during the years worked by this collective are returned. So from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, as we have done before. And we also wait and we'll wait with the support of all the House groups. We believe that it is essential to maintain this Parliament's support for a group of more than 8,000 Greek workers who are completely unprotected. And, therefore, in addition to adopting this agreement in this House, we hope that the Government of Greece and the People's Party will get to work as soon as possible because we must not forget that we are talking about a group of older people who cannot wait indefinitely. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Fajardo has the floor. Please give a voice to Mr. Fajardo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u233	The truth is that one cannot feel more than a slap in the face of the dire intervention of the spokesperson for the majority group of the House, because it is bochorenous that a government that has responsibilities and that has responsibilities is unable to put on the table or a single action in defense of this collective and that it resorts to the fact that there are unchallenged documents that give reason to this collective. But what is obvious is that these documents were found by the collective, who had to travel to Norway, who had to ask for help from a person in order to enter the Norwegian National Archives and who had to even contribute to this parliamentarian's search among those leagues which were the documents that were worth using and which were not. Because the support of the Government of Galicia was null, null and void. And defending now as itself an action that was alone and only of the sailors is certainly la-men-to-ble. What's the reality? Which, out of the palms on the back, the German Government doesn't want or will do anything for this collective. We're sorry. But, of course, what can be expected from a government that, in the face of every need of its people, leaves them in the stake, leaves them, orphans them? A government that only cares about its things. Moreover, the spokesperson even – I will not say in his indignity, I will not say so as not to be called to order; I will not say so – in his manner of acting in an intervention, saying that he cannot approve the second part because external relations are not the competence of the State. So, what does Rueda do in Cuba, go take mojitos? Cuba can go, but can't you go to Norway to defend the Welsh sailors? Is that what's going on? Is that the kind of government? No, no, I'm not from... we have nothing to do with that reality, but with you; and you could go to Ecuador the other day to spoil the extractive sector of our rivers, you can go to Japan to spoil our fishing sector, you can go to Cuba you don't know what, but you can't go to Norway to defend 8,000 Greek sailors. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what this government means; a government that does nothing, the only thing that does in many cases is to go and eat freely but not to defend its own. That's a reality. And, we insist, there are two ways. One is the diplomat, the Norwegian Government is wishing to have a government to negotiate with, but what's the matter? The interests of other multinationals, other collectives of the state, are above, it seems, of the interests of 8,000 people in Galicia. Many of them at a complicated age and with poor pensions because of this theft. And you, instead of putting yourselves on the side of the swindlers, put yourselves on the side of those who steal, from those who stole the money from the sailors. You put yourself on the side of the Norwegian Government, which is a government that cheats, steals and is manipulating the legality of these sailors. We insist, there are possibilities, and a serious and decent government would already be filing the complaint before the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u234	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece in relation to the creation of a national register of fishing opportunities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u235	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u236	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia, as the main fishing power in Spain, has one of the most important European Union fleets. The magnitude and importance of the fishing industry in our country requires us to be able to promote all initiatives that contribute to providing us with a more competitive, more efficient and more modern fleet and also to guarantee a better future for our fishing. And precisely the initiative we are presenting is based on this objective. Furthermore, it is endorsed by the professionals themselves, who, as I shall explain, have repeatedly demanded the establishment of a system of exchange of fishing rights which now recognizes and materialises the new European legislation. In the People's Group, ladies and gentlemen, we never tire of ensuring that we are not satisfied with the current quota allocation system. We do not believe in the model of TACs and quotas, nor in its distribution applied to the fixed key of the so-called relative stability, much despite the increases in the quotas experienced since the People's Party governs in Galicia and since the People's Party governs in Spain, and continues to yield insufficient results to meet the demands of the sector. And it is no good to be sorry here if when we try to fight it we do not find support from other European countries that benefit from this model. And in this House too, we have not found the support of the opposition forces, who prefer to vote against the People's Party's initiatives, calling for the end of the TACs and quotas, even if they are objectively positive to our fleet. It is true that each one is responsible for his actions and the Greeks are also certain to take good note. Well, as long as we're not able to force that change in Europe, if we have in our hands the ability to design and drive new tools that allow better resource management, greater catch profitability, the finish of fishing runs, an increase in the value of discharges and an improvement in control systems. And how can we do that? Well, through a system of transferable concessions or fishing rights, where vessels of the same census can exchange, buy, sell or rent these fishing rights according to their needs and under a number of requirements and guarantees. This model is already possible because it is applied after the reform of the common fisheries policy, and it also exists because, among others, Galicia, through the Union and the State and the professionals themselves of the sector, has made it one of the main demands for the reform of the common fisheries policy. And so it reflects the unitary dictate which was unanimously adopted by the Galician Fisheries Council; that is, by the Council's maximum consulting body, and in which all sectors of our fishing are represented. This model is not new either, since it has been applied and offers practical evidence of its usefulness among vessels operating within the geographic boundaries of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission Convention Area. Fishing companies included in this census may attach, transfer or transfer to each other, in whole or in part, the rights of access to different fishing areas, subject to permission from the Ministry. This system is also conditioned to the necessary establishment of effective safeguards that will ensure the section for the artisanal coastal fleet, as well as prevent excessive concentration or manipulation of the system to direct it to speculation. And that's why today's ships less than 12 meters in length are left out so that they don't sell their rights to larger ships. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we seek to articulate a whole technical and regulatory mechanism, we seek to articulate the creation of a state register of rights or fishing opportunities in which these transactions are reflected in order to give legal backing to this opportunity open to the Greek fisheries sector; a register that will provide us with transparency, with the possibility of consultation and access on a permanent basis of all professionals, who can know the various operations that are carried out; a register to give new routes to companies, crew members and professionals, who can organize their activities and have fishing rights according to the needs and commercial strategies they want to carry out. All this avoiding – I insist – the excessive concentration of these rights in hands just a few. In conclusion, we seek support so that our fleet can win in competitiveness and win in the future, convinced that transferable fishing rights are an opportunity for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to listen to the voice of the sector and allow Galicia with its favourable vote to be the protagonist of this demand. You know better than anyone that the Galician fleet is the best fishing tool in the world; it is therefore essential to manage it intelligently. The proposed agreement states that the Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to address the Central Government in order to adopt the technical and regulatory measures necessary for the establishment of a national register of fishing opportunities which incorporates all fleets which have constituted a scheme of fishing opportunities with an individual vessel distribution. This initiative brought by this House's majority group is an initiative – you know, that you are proud to talk to the sector – that you too would at some point communicate it, because it is an initiative that has indeed been claiming the sector for years. It is an initiative with which Galicia fought for the inclusion in this case within the reform of the common fisheries policy, in the unitary dictatorship which commanded this autonomous community, which served as the basis for the Government of the State to negotiate the common fisheries policy, and it is an initiative which the People's Party makes it, but which makes it extensible to the fishing sector. Who talks to them has been gathered on several occasions with important ports – Burela port, Celero port, Coruña port, Vigo port, Ribeira port – and never, ever, found anyone who had told me that this does not benefit the fishing sector. Maybe I'll meet you now. It is true that this is not the first time that you talk to the fishing industry in this House and it seems that you find nothing; sometimes you, who are always behind the sector, hope that in this initiative you have the height of circumstances, have the height of the needs of the Greek fishing sector, have the height of the power that is Galicia within this fishing sector and do not have the back of the sector, as they usually do in this House. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u238	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u239	Mr. Balsairo, how happy the People's Party would be if there were no opposition or unions. In your opinion, the opposition and the unions are the worst that could happen to the workers in this country. We never defend sailors or employees of any kind, you're the great defenders of the working class in Galicia. Please look at it, I no longer ask for humility, I ask for reality, because the entire working class in Wales is manifesting itself against the measures of the People's Party, which have only succeeded in impoverishing the working class and sending it directly to unemployment, without solution, and creating poor employment. That is their great triumph, and, of course, their democratic capacity and their democratic credibility have become engrossed in this plenary with two demonstrations, always accusing the opposition and trade unions of what happens in the country, which also says quite a bit of what the Government of the People's Party is. We, even though he cheats, will abstain from this non-law proposition that he presents because we consider it to be a floral game, a rocket party without more, and that he does not focus on anything about the true problems of the Greek fleet. It cannot be understood, for example, that the acts and opinions of the Galego Fisheries Council should be a secret of State kept with seven keys because they are not published anywhere, nor on the website of the Fisheries Council, for the knowledge of those who have an interest. The Galician Fisheries Council, as you know, has a Committee on Social Policy and Prevention that, as we know, has never met, another of the great interests of your participation. Besides, I don't know if you think it's from receipt that you come here to talk about transfer and sale of fishing rights when there's no fishing rights, when the problem is the TAC, to have more TACs and higher quotas per boat. Who do you want to cheat on with these smoking curtains in the campaign? Well, of course, to the population and to the sailors, but to them I do not think they're wrong. Mr. Balsairo, I don't know if you think this issue is the most important thing, which concerns the people of the sea, the sailors and shipowners, their Burella neighbors, who are being treated as criminals, and they complain about the treatment received by both the Joint Fisheries Inspectorate and the Civilian Sea Guard as well as the State Fisheries Inspectorate or the Community Fisheries Inspectorate. I don't know what quotas you're talking about, I don't know what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about selling, buying and transferring, after the episode of the boat forced to download 10,000 kilograms of interest in the Coruña, passing from Burela. Why haven't they been allowed to transfer to other boats? What are they talking about? Why don't you worry about the actual and daily problems of the fleet? Finally, you can go through the ports and tell the sailors that they have presented this wonderful initiative to see that they respond, because this is nothing more than a terrible ridiculous, but frightening not in the sense of the Portuguese language. I can't give you a vote in favour of this not-law proposal. They say in Galicia that when the seagulls are on the ground, the sailors, you know. So that's what's happening in our country: the sailors are on the ground. So I present this substitution amendment, which goes far further to the specific needs of our fleet, asking for a strategy for the increase in TACs in all species and eliminating Community overfishing sanctions, a strategy for the first-selling increase in fish, which includes withdrawal prices, improved packaging and marketing and an incentive plan for the consumption of fish that brings our fleet both in Galicia and in the state; a strategy to avoid the harassment that is being experienced by all Welsh vessels individually by the agents of the Board of Galicia, the Civil Guard of the Sea, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the agents of the Community Fisheries Inspection; a pressure that is becoming insufferable and incompatible with the development of the activity. This strategy must be presented within one month in the Committee on Fisheries for its debate and so that the opposition groups can approach it once they have heard the fisheries sector. Mr. Balsairo, we are concerned about our fleet and its future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u241	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again to all and to all. Today we are debating a non-law proposition by the People's Party very in line with what we've been accustomed to in recent times. And I'm saying this because someone who is profane in the matter might come to think, by reading this initiative, his explanatory statement, or even after listening to Mr. Balsairo's intervention, that is something right, something new, and that is going to suppose a qualitative improvement to the fishing sector. But nothing further than reality, this is an initiative of the People's Party in Galicia which asks the People's Party in the State to do something that already makes European legislation possible, and which, in addition, has been trying to make since 2013, exactly the date on which the first draft for the creation of this register of transfer of fishing opportunities was sent to the sector. And that's right, it's one of these initiatives where the Greek Government has to ask the Government of the State to do what it's already doing. But besides not being something new, because the transfer of fishing rights is something that has been done for many years, in the Great Sun, in NAFO, on a long surface, in drag, this initiative contains an important number of errors. In his own explanatory statement, Mr Balseiro referred to the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament which made it possible to transmit fishing rights. Well, the first thing I have to say to Mr Balsairo is that the regulation has been in place for a long time; the regulation on the common fisheries policy has been in place for a long time, and also Regulation 1380/2013, in which there is no mandatory system, only reference is made to this proposal which you bring through Article 21 of that regulation, which has already been adopted in 2013, and where it clearly states that Member States can establish a system of transferable fisheries concessions. So nothing new about this initiative that Mr. Balsairo brings to us today and that, after listening to it, seems to suppose some kind of qualitative improvement to the sector; nothing further from reality. The only thing you're going to assume is that we'll have transparency and publicity in the purchases, sales and transfers of those fishing rights. Yes, nothing is said of the situation that is living most of the country's fleet, nothing is said of the problems that we are suffering just because of the lack of rights and fishing opportunities, nothing is said of the fact that the German Government is agreeing that they are scrapped with public aid by Greek ships and that the fishing rights of those ships are marching to other communities of this country or, even, other European regions. Why don't we talk about this, Mr. Balsairo? Why is the German Government not encouraging those fishing rights – few – that we have in Galicia not to leave to other communities and remain in our country? That's what we should talk about, Mr. Balsairo. Because, what are we going to notice in that record, are we going to notice how little by little our fleet is disappearing or how they're concentrating their rights in just a few? That's what's happening in this country. And you can't come here with a redundant initiative to urge the Government of the State to do what you're already doing, a proposal for an agreement, besides, which you want us to vote on, which is nothing but a blank check to the Government. Because this initiative contains a clear and marked ideological profile, a liberal ideological profile, and we do not agree to leave everything in the hands of the market. We can't let those who have money accumulate fishing rights and close the door to many others who are in the sector today, but that every day with their policies are losing fishing opportunities. We cannot consent to this, there has to be some kind of limitation to avoid speculation. And we also believe that the state and the Government of Greece, the Government of the Union, have to do things, have to ensure the maintenance of fishing rights, at least those that exist today in our country, our territory, Galicia. In this respect, we are presenting the amendment, Mr Balsairo, because the State must reserve for itself at least 15% of the fishing opportunities of those vessels which are subject to the assistance of public administrations, and, in addition, those reserved fishing rights, if they are from Greek vessels, must revert to the fleet of our community. If you don't understand, what we're talking about is the creation of a national fishing opportunities bank where the State guarantees, at least, the continuity of a part of those fishing rights in our territory, that these rights are subsequently redistributed between the sector itself and that the distribution is made taking account of the place of origin of the ship laid down with public aid. I mean, if he was a Greek, those fishing possibilities would return again to the Welsh fleet. Not everything can be in the hands of the market, Mr. Balsairo, it takes some kind of regulation. In that sense, the amendments that we tabled to him go. We hope that you will accept our proposals, because the rest is a blank check, and it is nothing new that, in addition, is already being done, and so it is contemplated by European legislation itself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u242	Thank you, Mr. Val. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u243	I have Mr. Balsairo claiming to be the majority group and listening to the sector. I come, there is a mouse, to listen to the demands of the Marquesian, to listen to the demands of the way, to listen to the demands of the siege and the drag, and I was surprised that what they told me is that as it may be possible for the People's Party to have a fishing spokesman and that they have never met with them nor have ever worried about the real problems they are suffering. It's good that you come here and take your face off a little bit. Because, in fact, we are faced with the creation of the national register of fishing rights, a tool that has been required by the European Union since 2014, which requires mandatory introduction of CPTs and CIPs, i.e. transferable fishing quotas and individual quotas, but – I have to remind you – based on the following principles: the first is that the public right of marine resources will be changed, by being publicized to being a private use. This is the bottom line. This will allow you, once you have acquired this right, to have the possibility to sell it, rent it or exchange it, and what Mr Balsairo does not say is that this directive which comes from the European Union is part of an immovable condition, which must be respected relative stability. Why don't you tell the sector that, Mr. Balsairo? One, it's relative stability with which we've been crucified for thirty years. Why don't you tell him that for these thirty years, the fact that the Spanish State corresponds only to the miserable amount of 7 % of the quotas corresponding to the European Union? Now, indeed, it forces us to introduce the CPTs to continue tearing apart our fleet even further. This means, as I said, privatizing access, handing over to the shipowners the ridiculous right of fishing that is ours; making it easier for companies that are profitable to complete the quotas that they have other smaller companies, receiving the shipowners certain compensation for the abandonment of activity and spending. It is true that a few will improve, but it is no less true that the employment and economic activity that generates these fleets in coastal communities and in the country will be destroyed. Although certain shipowners and associations in the sector that you meet – which you consider to be economically more viable – see this option as an opportunity to improve and achieve greater competitiveness, it is to destroy our fishing model, consisting of a large number of small boats that generate a lot of jobs and a lot of economic activity. This model, in fact, is already implanted, for example, in the drag, although without registering in a boat, where they are already exchanging, selling, transvasing quotas so that they can cope with the unsustainable model of quotas, when the problem is that quotas have nothing to do with reality, Mr. Balsairo, and that there is another fleet that competes in our own waters with better competitive advantages. See if not what we've already said here: our fishing rights, for example, in the jury, 80 tons/year in one of our ships, and the Portuguese fleet, 40 or 50 tons/week. The Greek Government, instead of dealing with the problem clearly, bets on maintaining the deception and why it is those who concentrate the largest capital that maintains the activity, while the others disappear. But it also suffers the siege with the imposition of this individual division, which condemns them to have absolutely ridiculous quotas. This model will force us to buy quota so we can survive. And it will be paradoxical that there will be ships that will be much more profitable selling or renting the quota than leaving the fishing. This is where you want to drive us. We're going to have boats with fishing rights to have ships without quotas thanks to the submission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u244	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u245	...of Rosa Quintana and his president Feijóo. Fisheries policy, Mr. Balsairo, is pure hypocrisy. We were told that it was designed to favor those coastal fishing communities, like Galicia, and there's no more to see the distribution model in the yard, in the sardine or in the boulder. We were told that environmentally friendly practices and handicraft fleets would be favoured. We see it in the way that 200 tons of sardines are harmed, and you deny those who used it as an alternative and also if you refuse to be able to fish even your mouth. But even more. In the experiences carried out in certain ways... it is determined that shipowners eventually acquire a right of ownership over the resources that are of all: reducing employment, dependency on coastal communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u247	...and, above all, the fishing industry in the national economy. So you're the only one who's doing this is making a new turn of nuts to definitely end up with our fishing sector. That's the reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u248	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u249	...where they want to take us!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u250	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u251	Good afternoon to all and to all again. [[Pause.]] Now that I've spent as much time as I've spent on those assertions that were going to lead me to expulsion, I can come and explain our position on this matter. Look, when the People's Party talks about it's an initiative that allows the competitiveness, efficiency and modernization of our fleets, it's the first signal of alarm. Whenever the People's Party talks about competitiveness and effectiveness, what it's talking about is always about attacking the weakest, ending with a model that gave sustainability and eating an important part of our country. What is not said in this proposal is that this proposal can mean the end of our fishing as we now know it. Actually, what we're talking about is a capitalist model of buying fishing resources. I mean, if this goes on, if the European Union comes out with its own, you can fish for those who have the money to buy their share, and what you don't have the money to buy your quota, you can't fish. So we've been dealing with this process of privatization of marine resources that the PP has been pursuing in this country for a long time. Listen to him and hide him with beautiful words like efficiency, modernization, but there's nothing like that. What there is is capitalist accumulation of fishing resources; that is, industrial fishing against our fishing model. It's so much so that they know that risk that even in the exhibition of reasons they say that the artisanal fishing is isolated, and they do it because they know it's not true and they already put the sale before the wound. Why? Because the sea can't split up. So all that industrial fishing can catch is no longer able to fish for artisanal fishing. And what we're talking about is that what the Constitution recognizes as a public thing, as an inalienable right, as a resource to defend as a public, as our lands and seas are, if it privatizes and that it will be the multinationals who have the ability to buy those amounts of fishing. And we'll find situations like what's already happening today in some of the Basque Country's fisheries, where Mercadona buys 100% of the fishing possibility so that it won't fish and it doesn't compete with the Asian fish that bring another price. That's the reality. So those who support these initiatives are saying that we must end our sea, and that our sea will no longer be the sea of sailors, of those who live on the coast, which gives many people to live, to be the sea of multinationals. That's what's behind the individual transferable quotas. What you can afford will buy fish and what you can't afford will not be able to fish. We shall be by the destruction of our fleet, by the destruction of our marine communities, by the destruction, ultimately, of Galicia as a country and as a personality. Which would be Galicia without its ability to fish in the hands of multinationals who can do it because they have more economic capacity than we do? Therefore, the initiative cannot be supported by our group. But not only can it not be supported by our group, but I also believe that a responsible government, capable of defending its own, would have to denounce that decision of the European Union which goes against Article 132 of the Constitution. This Constitution, with which the People's Party is so filled in its mouth, says very clearly that no communal property can be alienated, as the sea may be. And here we are talking about privatizing the sea. They want to privatize our sea and our resources. For what? So that those multinationals who later become the ones that often fund the campaigns of the People's Party or the European right may exploit the sea, which is a public resource that needs to be organized and controlled so that many people, such as a mere speculative bank, can be accommodated, and therefore fishing will already be a new speculative element, and very soon we will see how it will not fish for food, which will be fished for fuel or simply fished for food for these large facilities that are intended to be installed on the Greek coast for our fish farms. So these kinds of decisions are nothing superficial, they're decisions that go to the backbone of our fishing, that go to our model of life and therefore to our personality. AGE won't be in this robbery, AGE won't be behind this scam, AGE won't allow, once again, multinationals to do with what's all of them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u252	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Maybe it was a fault of mine, but I'm sorry you didn't understand the initiative. I was talking about the creation of a state register of rights or fishing possibilities, a register, because the possibility of renting them, selling them or exchanging them already exists. We simply want these transactions to be recorded and transparent. It seems here, according to the Galician Nationalist Block, and the second mentioned AGE, that they didn't even find out that that exists; what we want is to be registered. And that's why we're asking for the creation of a register; we're not asking for the creation to sell or rent fishing rights, that's already something that exists in Spain. Indeed, Mr. Rhodes, I am reassured that you met in the morning with the area of the siege and I don't know how many more things. I am very surprised that you were told by those in the siege sector that the fishing spokesman had not met with them because they were actually meeting with me. And it gives me some rest because in the morning, when we got here, we saw that there was no one in your group and I thought you were tired of Holy Week and they were prolonging vacations. That's why it gives me some quiet, if it did. [[Murmurs.]] And, Mrs. Martínez, I didn't talk about the unions, nor did I say anything that the opposition hadn't defended the sailors. But look, if there's anyone here who's defending part-time sailors, if there's any deputy, it's you. You defend the part-time sailors, because you play the Champions. [[Murmurs.]] You defend sailors in Parliament's plenary because you are missing the first time – and they are listed there – despite being part of the Committee on Fisheries, that you had attended a single committee, a single session of the Committee on Fisheries. [[Murmurs.]] And, Mr. Val, you ask to reserve 15% of the fishing opportunities for broken vessels with public aid. This request denotes how little you talk to the sector, Mr. Val. I can tell you that you're not booking 15%, you're booking 100%. But you're going a lot behind you. It will not be reserved for what you request, 15%, and so it establishes the project of the Royal EMP Development Decree, of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund in its Article 7.5. [[Murmurs.]] He knows the whole sector and it seems like a lie that you don't know him. And he asks us to return fishing rights to our community. Home, this has been done since Enrique López Veiga was a Fisheries Advisor. And so it appears in addition to the order of scrapping since the year 2000. What amendment are you presenting to us? What you're asking for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u254	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u255	...is in the order of scrapping since the year 2000. It seems a lie, Mr. Val, that you had been a high-ranking position of the Fisheries Council and had not found out and that you would put through an amendment the things you're putting in. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u256	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u257	...turning his back on the sector, which is going to be worse against him and better go to the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u258	Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Lefta, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission for research to determine the political responsibilities that could arise from the railway accident of Angrois
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u259	There were no amendments to this non-law proposal. Mr. Sánchez has the floor for his defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u260	Good afternoon. On July 24, 2013, Alvia's accident in England caused 79 deaths that, shortly thereafter, with the passage of days, would reach 81. We remember the pain of families, friends, victims and society in general. We remember the example of the neighborhood, of the public workers, but there was also room for indignity. We remember the statements in the days following the high positions of Adif, the Minister of the Interior and the Feijóo himself, noting that it was a high-speed frame or saying that he was trying to harm the Spanish VA towards the possible contracts; most concerned them all that they were not exposed to political responsibilities and that they were not affected by the business, with statements that were concerned about shielding contracts at high speed and criminalizing the machine. Very quickly we started to know more and we found out that we had a second or a better non-AVE and that there were pressures and pressures to open it before the 2011 elections. At this opening there were doubts and speeches assumed at high speed, a historic day for Galicia. We knew there had previously been a dramatic change over the original project. For commercial reasons the ERTMS security system has been removed from the Grandeira curve, but it has not been replaced by additional measures that acted in the always probable case and with the inevitable time of human error. We knew that without that change, this accident wouldn't have happened. We knew there were reports and emails that alerted this situation and that there were technical reports on similar curves, such as that of Puertollano. We also learned that ERTMS didn't work on the rest of the frame either, because it wasn't compatible with trains; fortunately, that neglect didn't cost lives. There were acts of homage that more than ever seemed to be made for the approval of the authorities themselves than to give respect and support to the victims, because, at the time of truth, the contrast between the over-acting of later days and the inactivity of investigating and purifying responsibilities was quickly seen. The strategy was clear: load the paints into the machine and protect the high loads of ADIF and Development. What the search for the truth could have been blocked, what the victims and relatives are demanding, a commission of investigation, neither here nor in Madrid, the victim's platforms were despised. As always, once again, the high office, which collects juicy wages and leaves in the photos when it comes to presuming, assumes no responsibility when things get ugly. You say that the senior positions of ADIF and the Ministry don't deal with these details; they're looking at, yes, charging and doing business. It is difficult to believe that those responsible for the change – the change that led to the accident by eliminating that security system – were only technical steps of Development, as Judge Aláez had already said in the car issued in October 2013, who said they had an obligation to have known this change, as is normal. But yet these high posts of ADIF, authorized, have to answer; they have been authorized, they have to answer, and if they have not authorized and they have left to do without knowing, they also have to answer. And the same for the leadership ministers of Renfe, of ADIF, who do not debase themselves –din – to look at the projects neither drive trains, and therefore the scapegoat, once again, the worker, like on the subway of Valencia, in the case of Spanair and many others. After 81 dead and dead, not a single resignation. Shame and indignation are what causes many of the citizens of this country. On the contrary, project changers are promoted with appointments in positions of the highest responsibility. What responsibility? Paradox Macabros: Rafael Catalá, appointed Minister of Justice – what justice?, will say the victims of this accident. Political responsibilities cannot be limited to criminal responsibilities. Political responsibilities in the face of a fact of this gravity, with honest rulers, are taken to show the victims, to assume matters that are directly or indirectly a responsibility of one, and the death is not borne below. But after this recital of a lack of democratic quality and height, we have come to close the circle these days. A few days ago the state government and board officials returned to give a pre-election ride on a train that they said it was high-speed when it wasn't. Mrs. Ana Pastor, the Government of the Union, mayors were smiling when they were repeating the same story four years ago, when they were repeating the shame of the same modus operandi from previous elections: rush, because there are elections, to a project with more than eight years' delay and inaugurate it without the ERTMS, the system designed for this plot. To speak at high speed when it is not, again, shame and indignation. It's not enough for them to design infrastructure policies to give business to businesses or use public money to do electoralism, with the aggravating yet to do so not two years after England. For us it is a mixture of cynicism, cowardice and disability. Incapacity too, because how is it possible that, after having a project with almost eight years' delay and two years' delay, Mrs. Anne Pastor almost came to Congress saying that the RTB would be installed in all high-speed sections, they would not bid the installation of the ERTMS with enough time to put it into operation on this train with all the necessary security measures, with all the guarantees? They risk people's lives again. Honestly, I never thought I'd see this. I was wrong, they overcame themselves in failing to respect the most basic democratic principles. On Saturday, a train that is not high-speed and without the security system that technicians consider suitable for the line will be put into service. Because – I say – if, as you say, the ASFA with which it will circulate a year and a half – at least – is totally safe, why do they spend 68 million euros on the ERTMS auction? You're trying to laugh at people. We call for the creation of a committee of inquiry in this Parliament to know the truth and to prevent an accident like that of Angrois in the future from happening again. We see that you didn't learn or care what happened in English almost two years ago. We want to hear the real leaders that the original project was changed by removing ERTMS, with what criteria, those that did not put – despite the technical reports too – additional security measures, those who assumed high-speed and then denied it to slip the bulk. We want those responsible not to be promoted, above all, but to assume responsibilities. We want to fight for truth and justice, for victims, for a different future, for railways, but also for politics. We want transparency and exemplaryness, that they don't always pay the duck below, that you don't always protect yourself between those above. We want to know the truth. We want you to assume responsibilities, and you have consistently refused to set up a research commission to clear political responsibilities. Why do you refuse? The answer to citizenship is clear: because they have a lot to hide. That's the answer everyone knows, which is finally the reason why you refuse. But today we give the People's Party the opportunity to dignify politics, to show respect and to reconcile as much as possible with the victims' families, who have come to reiterate their request for the commission of inquiry. Let's hope they take this opportunity. It's never too late for dignity in politics. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u261	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u262	Thank you, President. Angois's sinister is the responsibility of the state and of the parties which for election interests have, of course, opened up in a hurry with modifications to the original project and deficiencies in security. To conceal this neglect of the powers of the State is what is intended to be achieved by the denial of an inquiry commission in the Greek Parliament. They can, from the People's Party, make excuses for the responsibility of the administration in England's sinister – it's obvious – and now the victims suffer the lies and concealments of the state, of course the reasons of the state, but of a state that protects the factual powers against citizenship. It has already happened in other disasters in the Spanish State, such as the Valencia Metro or in the management of the Yak-42 in Turkey, or even in the recent accident and rescue the group of mirrors in Morocco. It's about the powers of the State, hiding themselves from negligence and responsibilities, putting their interests above the lives and rights of citizenship. It is obvious, then, that the interests of the State are not those of the social majority, that it supports, and there is the breakdown and crisis of the political regime, that they are striving not to see. On July 24, 2013, the Alvia 04155 catastrophe leaves in Galicia death and wounds that are prolonged for not being able to investigate thoroughly what happened. In 2001, the first stone of the so-called AVE is placed, starting a decade and a half of promises, delays, – if— scarves in its construction, lies and promotion of a high-speed model while they are with the damaged network of nearby Galicia to vertebrate the territory. The Ourense-Santiago line, which was hired by the People's Party in 2004 before losing the elections, was inaugurated in 2011 by the PSOE, before losing the elections, and the People's Party back in central government. That line sold as high-speed didn't turn out to be an AVE. They lied to citizenship for election interest, and that had fatal consequences. They said the new high-speed line was improving security because it was using cutting-edge technologies. It was false, they didn't install the ERTMS system, which was budgeted and would have avoided the sinister. Then, just after the accident, they refused to sell it at high speed, so they wouldn't harm companies. That was his priority in the early days: business before the victims. The expert reports give evidence as one of the causes of the English tragedy the reduction of security parameters made by the change in the project in the rush of the inauguration. These were political decisions, and that's why there must be political responsibilities. It was political decisions that accelerated the works and those that excluded the ERTMS system or those that didn't improve the signaling systems or installed ASFA beacons. They left everything in the hands of the machinists, who had already repeatedly warned of the danger of the bend of the Great, in English, and of the insufficient signaling, but were not heard. In this way, the State washes its hands in its responsibility and the human failure is solely responsible, despite independent expert reports, which pointed out that, if it had installed the ERTMS system, it would have avoided the accident. AVE's history of carpets continues with the recent inauguration of the line The Vigo Coruña without the ERTMS system, which would have prevented the sinister of Angrois. The BOE published the bid to provide that line security system The Coruña-Vigo for about 69 million euros. However, and after the inauguration of the new Atlantic axis, again in an electoral period, it will not count to ERTMS until about a year and a half later. What you don't know is if you count on the rest of the security measures: signaling, gas output in tunnels, well perchated curves. Thus, during your first year and peak the line will circulate with the conventional track security system and will not be until 2017 when ERTMS is operating. The victims claim a genuine parliamentary investigation commission. You will do so and you will understand that in the search for the truth about the disaster in Angrois the victims and the civil society of Greece are far above the dignity of this Parliament which theoretically represents them. We want to end up with a reminder of recognition to the victims and their struggle to get them to investigate the truth, a reminder to the neighbouring English, to the emergency staff, which, by the way, should also be reviewed, because if they could act in English, it was because there was a device about July 25, but that there was no misfortune at any other time, because our emergency services, privatized and dismantled, would not be able to respond.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u263	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u264	Also – already finished – a reminder for the railway collective, punished and accused of being responsible, and also for all citizenship, who came urgently to donate blood. We ask them to vote in favour of this initiative if they really want the truth of what happened in English and if they do justice. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Utopia is on the horizon. I walk two steps, she leaves two steps and the horizon runs ten steps further. So, what does utopia do for? For that, it serves to move forward. Well, this way I want to pay tribute to you, on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, to Eduardo Galeano. Utopian utopias are necessary, they allow us to move forward, but yet, gentlemen of the People's Party, you don't turn yourself into such an elementary utopia that you know the truth and there is justice. Look, we've been living times of appearances, replacing reality with simulation, and the People's Group is recently flooding this Parliament with proposals – according to it – aimed at improving transparency, boosting democracy, strengthening the political centrality of this House, but at the same time establishing the Mordace Law in this Parliament, has kidnapped the Committee on Boxes, vetoing the creation of research committees and, by vetoing it, even trying to ban its creation if it can be debated. In the last year, the People's Group has twice ruled that the request for this committee to be set up could be debated in plenary, as a specific item on the agenda. So in order to draw the veto, the BNG Group had to resort, a year ago, to a non-law proposition in order to be able to debate this issue in plenary, and today it does the Parliamentary Group of AGE itself. The People's Party's argument to reject the inclusion of the request for the commission to be set up as a specific point on the agenda was that Parliament has already spoken twice on this issue. So let me remind you of all the new facts, which we have not known since the last time Parliament rejected this request. Today we know that, before the accident, a driver-in-chief alerted Renfe about the danger that represented the corner of Angrois. Today we know that already in 2002, a report alerted us to the risk of curves like that of English. We know, therefore, that it was not true that there was no warning about the danger of tracing and the safety deficits. Today we know that Judge Aláez, the former instructor, accused in the car ADIF of risking the lives of thousands of people for commercial reasons, that Bombardier advised that Alvia was slower and that the ERTMS was not cancelled, that the draft Ministry of Development urged the ADIF in 2011 to correct the English errors and that, according to expert reports, the corner of Angrois was poorly signaled. Today we know that expert reports claim that the Angles curve had a predictable and untolerable risk, that they claim that the risks were not analysed as required by European legislation, that they affirm nothing more and nothing less than the potential for derailment was one every six months. All this information makes it clear that there have been decisions, also in the political sphere, which have led to an important decline in security, decisions that must be investigated, responsibilities that must be cleared. But besides, ladies and gentlemen, as time passes, there is also more evidence that you haven't even learned from the lessons of tragedy. In these weeks of inaugural frenzy, we know that the Atlantic axis will have to wait for 2017 to have the security measures that were missing in English. Until then it will operate on the ASFA system, you will have to wait a year and a half for ERTMS to be installed and operated. We also know these days that the new State Railway Security Agency will be headed by Mr. Carlos Díez Arroyo, that is, by the former director of the high-speed line in the northwest of ADIF, one of the signatories of the change in the project of entry into Santiago, which I assumed a loss of security and all the evidence points out that it had an impact therefore on the tragedy, in the unfortunate accident. I mean, not only do they assume responsibilities, but they cover themselves and even reward the people who have embraced a change that is among the causes that caused the tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a social cry demanding that we reach the end so that the whole truth of what happened in England is known, and that it also requires that political responsibilities be investigated and maintained. That's why the German Parliament cannot wash its hands when investigating the causes of the biggest railway accident in our history. This Parliament, as we have said on so many occasions, if it wants to commit itself to the true spirit of England, has to contribute to justice, and the best honour we can do to those who have lost their lives and to the rest of the victims is to thoroughly investigate the causes of the tragedy, also in the political sphere, clearing up all the responsibilities to which there is a place. That's why, as I could not otherwise, the BNG Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u267	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The tragedy of Angrois remains alive and remains in force in the Galician society. He's still alive in the direct and indirect damage due to that damn accident. And they're not right, but they're right. Today, almost twenty-two months of the railway accident in Angrois, they're still waiting for answers. relatives of the 79 victims, wounded people, friends and friends of the victims, emergency personnel, health personnel, psychologists and psychologists, neighbors and neighbors of Angrois, Galician society are waiting for answers. And political organizations must demand – and we must demand – answers so that the injured do not continue to be victims. Silence over facts can be a new form of humiliation. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this because this House must and should constantly bear in mind the wish expressed by the victims: not to be forgotten, not to be abandoned. And we must do it with maximum respect and strictness. The victims must not become partisan overactations that turn them into victims or into eternal silences that humiliate them. We must be extremely sensitive and scrupulous, in the background and in the forms, so that positions, debates and opinions respond to their objectives. From our position, "not forgotten" means to keep them permanently present. From our position, "that we don't give up" has two connotations: the first, that are not obvious in the debate when used as an excuse for other purposes; the second, that the targets of the victims occupy their central role in this debate. And the targets of victims, users and society, are consistent. The first one, to know the conclusions of the political and judicial investigations that show the truth of what happened on July 24, 2013 in Angrois, about a railway accident that happened and that had not to happen. Secondly, those conclusions must be used to detect the errors that caused the accident, to correct those errors and to clear up responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to be consistent and consistent with what I have just expressed in my speech. We want to be cautious and avoid manifestations that may cause victims the feeling of biased use. We want to be respectful of the work of the Spanish Sub-Commission on Research and Analysis of the Railway System, set up in the Ministry of Development. We want justice to continue with its work of clarifying the causes of the Angois accident, with manifest advances from the point of departure and the current situation. We want and believe that research into political and judicial issues is part of the victim's call: don't forget us, don't abandon us. The Socialists said – and today we repeat it and we repeat it –: we want to know the truth about the crash in Anguilla and we do not give up at all, once we know the results of the investigations. We believe that the results of the ongoing, satisfactory or unsatisfactory investigations are the ones that must lead to the creation or not of an investigation commission to determine the political responsibilities that could arise from the railway accident in Anguilla. While the results of these investigations are not known, the Socialist Group is going to vote for abstention. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u269	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Gómez Alonso. Give Mr. Gómez Alonso a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. He said the AGE spokesman, by the Ministry of Development officials, of the political representatives who were at the time of the Angrois tragedy, that his subsequent action was outrageous, but he also said very well that Mr. Fernández that the Socialist Party was against the biased use of the victims of the Anrois accident. And to that non-partisan use of the victims of the Angrois accident, this parliamentary group also wants to add, Mr. Sánchez. You know why? Because it seems immoral to us, two years later, to try to get political profitability out of the pain of the victims and family from which it was one of the worst tragedies in our country's railway history. We don't think it's serious to use arguments based on opinions or suggestions by people who aren't qualified to do them. It was mentioned that data was known after the accident. And yes, but you only use the data you're interested in, not the officers, that are the valid ones for a trial. If you were informed, you would know that a year ago, the report on the causes of the disaster, which has been issued by the Railway Accidents Research Commission, which is the only competent body before the European Union and the Spanish state legislation, has been published to determine the technical causes of the accident. And he said to the report: "The cause of the accident was a speeding excess of the train. It circulated at 179 km in the entrance curve of fork A Grandeira, corner of Angrois, limited to 80 km, for failing to respect driving staff as set out in the book "Time of train 150/151" and in the maximum speed table of line 082. As a coadjuvant cause, a lack of attention by the driving staff is highlighted, in responding to a call for the service of the train itself, coming from the intervener, which motivated the failure to apply the brake properly to reduce the speed before entering that curve." –add the report. And it ends by saying, "The CIAF's investigation is independent of any judicial investigation and is not dealt with in any case of determining the fault or liability of the accident." I repeat: "The investigation carried out by the CIAF is independent of any judicial investigation and is not dealt with in any case of determining the fault or liability of the accident." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibilities are going to be cleared by the judge, and you will not purify them on the basis of your political interests. And when you talk about railway safety, you should be strict, ladies and gentlemen, you should be strict, and you should be aware that right now, throughout the Spanish railway system, a new signage figure is being introduced, which is the significant speed transition, in which new signs are introduced with beacons associated with all those points where a speed transition occurs, because it slows down the train. This is installed throughout the railway network. You guys, if you were serious, wouldn't call the corner of Angelos a black dot. Angles is not a black point. It's the same system of access and entry into a city like what have cities as important as Frankfurt, Cologne, Paris, Lyon, Rome, Florence, Madrid, etc. It was a point of a huge misfortune – that's right – but it's not a black point. You, ladies and gentlemen, should also be aware that at present the S730 – the model known as Alvia – already has its compatibility problems in the ERTMS signaling systems, which have been fixed since 2014. And you should be responsible when they say the ASFA system is not a safe system. Based on what technical data do you claim that the ASFA system is not a safe system or is it safer than ERTMS? Or don't you know that there are such important lines as Paris to Lyon that have no ERTMS system? Go to Paris and tell the citizens of Paris that they have an insecure system. Or don't you know that AVE Madrid-Sevilla doesn't have ERTMS either? The ERTMS system, ladies and gentlemen – to see if we are starting to focus – is to homogenise the safety signaling systems of the trans-European rail transport network, the trans-European rail transport network. And the predominant security signage systems in the European Union are others: in France, ASFA 200; in Germany, LZV. So, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about such important issues as people's security...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u272	...when less you have to be serious. And if you ask for political responsibilities, can you explain to me that Minister of Development signs a constructive project of a high-speed line? What Minister of Development has the power to assert that a line already meets the approval to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u273	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u274	...in service to be used by trains? Which Minister of Development has the power to decide whether a train is the one that is authorized or approved to travel through the railway?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u275	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u276	No Minister for Development, ladies and gentlemen, no Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u277	Finish it, Mr. Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u278	We are not going to support this commission of inquiry. You know why? For dignity and political morality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u279	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u280	Well, the spokesperson of the People's Party accused us of being immoral for trying to politically use the disaster of Angrois. You do not know what morality, ethics or dignity is; you are not ashamed. Look, look at the picture of the day of the opening of the Santiago-Ourense frame, they're no longer fit, here they're holding elbows to get into the picture that now protect each other to slip the bulk. Look, the People's Party cannot teach what political responsibilities are and what political responsibilities are and what criminal responsibilities are. Of course, the minister doesn't sign the projects, but what you just did is to make it clear to us that you don't know what political responsibilities are. A Minister of Development, when an accident occurs with 81 victims, for a mistake, for a change in the original project and for not having put the necessary security measures to avoid it, the same ones that were put in with a 6000-day ballasts later, resigns, with respect to the victims; resigns, for example, to improve the democratic quality of this country, not looking at you, but looking at the victims. Therefore, lessons of morality, none, because we bring this here after talking to the victim's platform, which is the one that is asking for reparation, truth and justice, and that they have to bear the humiliation that those who signed the change of the original project are promoted, Mr. Català is promoted after the offensive statements he made after the disaster. The gentlemen who Mr. Jorquera said were promoted, just as Mrs. Encarnation Rivas is promoted for doing what she did in Sanxexo, the General Secretariat of Urbanism. That's his policy. Those who assumed high-speed and who then denied it. We have all the rigour of the world, Mr. Gómez Alonso. You do not have rigour, that you repeat the same modus operandi on the Vigo-The Coruña Atlantic axis. You're going to put in service a train that doesn't count on the security system that technicians consider suitable for that course. Because you tell me about ASFA, and then why are you going to spend 68 million euros on installing ERTMS if ASFA is perfect? Why? Because you're not ashamed. We hope that nothing will happen in that frame, we hope that nothing will happen, but if not, you will again be responsible for serious consequences. You don't care about the victims. You used to say the usage. You did want to make use of the victims when they were invited to take a stand and the victims didn't want to attend. Because those paripés, if they are not accompanied by facts and serve to glorify more Mr. Feijóo or more Mrs. Ana Pastor than the victims, use the victims to improve their public image, that is indeed usage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u282	We came here to do our job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u284	...which is to transfer the demands of those victims to Parliament, which is the House of Representatives. If we hadn't, we'd be missing our duty as political representatives. I'll pay my tribute to Eduardo Galeano, too, to finish. He said, "The killers of the planet shed some tears from time to time so that the pot knows that they also have their heart. But it's pure theater. They know that today's life models they impose are death models."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u285	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan for women's employment, as well as the measures to be taken
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u286	To formulate it has the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u287	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today it is legislate against the rights of young women, against rights they had attained a few years ago, as is the right to decide about their motherhood, and today they are legislating about an involution into those rights. But it's not just those rights that have been lost in recent years to women in the Spanish state and to the Greek women. On the right to decide for all, for girls, we will speak on repeated occasions and we will expect that the Government of Greece does not share that idea that 16- and 17-year-old girls have the ability to work, they have the ability to undergo an intervention of aesthetic surgery, but not to decide on their motherhood, most of all, when, if we see the data – we have talked about it other times since this rostrum – in fact, there are very few cases of young women who have not had that support from their parents, mothers or tutors. In particular, because it is good that we know, in the last year, the accompanied girls who made the decision of a voluntary interruption of pregnancy were 87%, that is, very few, and in extreme cases, in cases of family violence, of family destruction, were those who welcomed this article of the Law, 13.4, which today wants to be modified. But the intervention of this non-law proposal on women's labour rights, also today, which is a day of dates and ephemerals, in 1986 Simone de Beauvoir died, a woman who devoted an important part of her thinking to the situation of women in that famous second sex text, who concluded that only economic independence and labor independence would be able to break up with gender stereotypes. But that's why some data is important to see what happened in recent years in Galicia about the working situation of women. Increasing the wage gap, 3.5 points, in recent years; this is 1.5 in the last year, placing Galicia at the head of the Spanish state wage gap, a state that is, by the way, also at the head of the European average wage gap, 2.5 points above the European average. At no age do women charge more or more than men in Galicia, neither girls, nor middle-aged women, nor older women. More importantly, this gap is accentuated from the age of 50; in fact, on average, Greek women earn 2.34 euros less per hour than men. But also the women of Greece live in a situation of precarious work. Seventy-five percent of part-time jobs are developed by women. Between 2009 and 2013 women's wages were reduced 1.4%, and in the last year 6,800 girls were lowered in the occupation index. In fact, if we took and expanded this ratio a little bit and reached 44 years old, it was 8,000 women less occupied in Galicia. But if we also look at women over 44 years of age, the situation is -- we can say -- dramatic, because the slight declines in female unemployment in recent years have to counter the rise in unemployment among women over 50 years. And let me give the data, because they have to lead us to reflection. In the age range between 50 and 54 years unemployment increased in the last year by 3.4 per cent; between 55 and 59 by 2.6 per cent; and between 60 and 64 by 2.6 per cent. This is the situation of many women who, after twenty-five or thirty years of contributions, shut down their businesses, those companies that we have sued in Parliament and that we have heard them many times at Parliament's doors, shut them down and found no work. That's the dramatic situation of women over 50. In 2014 we can talk about 50,800 unemployed women who have been in this situation for more than two years, with which they are out of their contributions. And by giving more information about the situation of women in the labour market, in Galicia, the retirement pensions of the Greek women are 38% lower than those of men. Then, the employment situation of women in Galicia is a situation of precariousness and inequality, which has increased, has not decreased in recent years, in all its variables: in the wage divide, in incorporation into the labour market and in retirement pensions. And we could ask ourselves: Is the Galician Law no longer in force 2/2007 on 28 March, equal work for women in Galicia? He's still alive. Is that law being developed? You don't know, you can't answer, we don't know about any performance by the Greek Government regarding the incorporation or improvement of the working situation of women. We have no knowledge of the current Government's actions with regard to the reconciliation of working and family life. The last thing we know is the vote against a law in this Parliament that we are discussing about this improvement in the area of conciliation or in the broadest scope of co-responsibility. That is why we want to bring a non-law proposal again for the debate in this Parliament which, in its first paragraph, calls for Article 37 of the Women's Equal Labour Act to be developed and for the development of a German women's employment plan. A German women's employment plan because the data I read, which is a school, are clearly the situation of women employed in Galicia. From which we want to highlight three points that we set out as fundamental: that a specific allowance is established for periods of reduction in the daily or surplus care of family members, as is already the case with men. We believe that, after that benefit has been working for the last seven years, it's time to jump and also incorporate women. We also want two specific lines to be established: one, for the creation of women's businesses of over 45 years old. Why is that incorporation of an age group? Because, in fact, women over 45 years old who lose their jobs or have to go home or have to ride -- let's say between quotes -- a "trade" -- become what the German Government calls force entrepreneurs, because they have no room to find work; so we believe that this specific line is necessary. And thirdly, the creation of an aid for long-term unemployed. It is absolutely unfair that, after a working life of more than thirty years, many women who are now 50 years old are helpless, find no work and end their provision and therefore remain in a kind of limbo. It is possible to create this help, we bring it to the debate and, of course, also to incorporate the necessary improvements. As for the pay gap, we're considering the creation of a working group, because the wage gap is invisible to the German Government. From the General Secretariat of Equality or from the Labour Council there is no wage rift, there is never a mention of the wage rift, not even when before this 8th of March the unions put the growing wage rift on the table. That is why we also incorporate this measure into the German Women's Employment Plan: impulse to conciliation, although, after that debate about the Law of Correspondence, frankly, we do not have a lot of hope on the subject. The second paragraph of this non-law proposal seeks to urge the State to three fundamental aspects: to increase maternity and paternity leave – it is time to increase maternity and paternity leave, as many associations are demanding – a social security bonus for workers' contracts that replace others who leave work on grounds of family care and compensation on days of contributions in those cases of workers who interrupt their professional career for reasons of care. And by the way, I want to read a quote: "There is no woman who is not suspected of bad conduct. According to the boleros, they're all ungrateful; according to the tangos, they're all whores, except Mom. Owner's right confirmations. The male is the owner, he knocks his property right on the female. Good cake to humanity." Eduardo Galeano, Legs up. In memory. And also as an homage to Monica, a woman who has just suffered the brutal violence of machoism. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u289	Good afternoon to all and to all. Thank you, President. First of all, to express my rejection of the People's Party's bill of election propaganda, because it is a symbol of the treatment given to women in a patriarchal society, masquerading and discriminatory; as an oress, as a feminist and as a woman. The effects of neoliberal globalization on the lives of women in Greece are so significant that the feminization of poverty or generic segregation of the labour market translates into unobvious figures, as Mrs. Adam has just shown. The truth is that poverty, survival, exclusion and free work are increasingly feminizing. The first observation to be made is that women do not enter the labour market with the same resources and mobility as men. But they can't compete on equal terms. His access to a paid job is highly conditioned by what feminist economist Ingrid Palmer calls the "reproductive tax" that takes place at home. The unpaid work, the invisible work that women do at home, is the result of the tacit agreement that all men of all ideologies signed at the end of World War II and consecrated the man as a universal economic provider and women as family and domestic caregivers. This division of roles was changing and mitigating thanks to the feminist struggle and progressive policies of some socialist and Social Democratic government. But today, we are in an alarming déja vu, with policies that classify people according to the roles of the patriarchate, policies that are largely the result of the cuts in social rights applied by this government of the People's Party. So, those functions that the state leaves inevitably fall within the family, and they are again assumed by women, in the same way as in the past, before the equal progress that this government is destroying. Besides, when women get visible work, that is, jobs, they do it very often, most of the time, in conditions of over-exploitation that are hard to imagine in a democratic and developed society. Thus, women in the working class are caught on a daily basis – and we know well all that we are here, we know very well – endlessly combining invisible work – to drown – with visible work – exploitation – with a garbage contract in conditions of exploitation – I repeat –. All these reasons, according to this honourable Member and the Joint Group, show the need for initiatives such as the one we are debating, which develops feminist demands and arguments for a new and fair social and labour model. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u290	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u291	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that we are speaking in this initiative, without a doubt, of a fundamental human right, nothing more and nothing less than equality between men and women, and also in this initiative we are talking about many rights that cover what is now called the social field, the field of labour relations, and since it is of a special topical nature what it has to do with, for example, the incorporation of these succulent businesses – such as prostitution – into GDP, or even as there are political organizations, which grow up like foam, which are currently defending the legalization of prostitution, I want to read what Mrs. Ana Míguez, well known in our country, says about what would legalize prostitution. She says in an edited text recently: "The purchase and sale of women's bodies prolongs a state of male domination. Subjects who buy women's bodies turn them into merchandise, so the direct person responsible for the existence of prostitution would be the client prostitute." She says, "Legalizing prostitution as a job only grants legal protection to the bitches, the pimps, the client prostitutes; affords them respectability as a third party in the prostitution business and facilitates the marketing environment conducive to rape and marketing of women's bodies, and of course also gives them impunity." Well, the truth is, of course, I believe that in this initiative, Mrs. Adam, we must also talk about these issues that are today in the social debate of our country, also in Galicia. And I believe that if there is a barbaric form of exploitation about human beings in this part that we are or represent women, without doubt, it is in the hands of the legalization of prostitution as another work, this model – also very German – that has been incorporated or even defended in respect of itself the necessity or necessity to quote by the barbarism of the exploitation of women by men. This initiative is certainly relevant. It is of relevance to what I said at the beginning, because it speaks of a fundamental human right, because it speaks of equality, that equality which we remember today is the Republic, on April 14, of that collective imaginary that provides or offered the struggle of many men and women to achieve a fairer world. But it also speaks of rules that are already incorporated into the collective imaginary and also into the judiciary, but that are being violated daily in our country; those rules that have been incorporated, for example, into treaties since 1957, or even into recent directives in 2006, but we – we insist – continue to be violated by the politics of the People's Party, and particularly by the politics of Alberto Núñez Feijóo; those rules that are found in the ILO conventions and are violated daily. If we had done a management, a five-year balance of Alberto Núñez Feijóo's management, we would say that women in our country have more unemployment, worse wages, worse unemployment benefits, worse pensions, worse working conditions, less social services and, of course, we're sucked by a huge, black hole called emigration. We have terrible data on the working situation of women. In fact, we lost jobs, destroyed more than 2,000 jobs in women last year. We have – according to the Tax Agency – nothing more and nothing less than 93,000 women who in one year declared EUR 1,861 gross annually, and we are talking about 20%, according to the Tax Agency, of the waged Welsh. We have the lowest pensions in the state, but pensions that we would like women to have half the pensions that men get. We lost 51,000 working women. We have a partial contract façade; one in four contracts signed in our country, according to the reports just published, are met by women. And we have a work reconciliation structure that, as the studies are being published, is failing. We move into a model of employment reconciliation that is being unilateral, that is, in a certain and unique way by the workers; secondly, that reproduces the macho roles that incorporates us women as caregivers of children/children and dependents; and thirdly, that feeds the wage divide. So, Mrs Adam, of course we will support the initiative, at all the points you have raised. And I also want to send a little reminder to Eduardo Galeano, who will be listening to us somewhere in the world. When he wondered: am I Marxian?, for as in this labour market "foots up" – he said – we will have to turn him around so that we can walk on his feet. Surely he would also like us women to walk backwards about a world where we achieve equal rights between men and women, we have equal wages, we have equal working conditions and, above all, we have nothing brutal, which is that there are children who are prostitutes in the world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u292	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u293	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will support this non-law proposal, the Socialist Group will support it. We understand that women have to work more to earn the same. It's not that the Socialist Group understands it, it's a quantified reality. This discrimination is terrible, but it seems to be a reality that the governments of the People's Party intend not only to perpetuate, but to recover. The difference in gross remuneration between both sexes is about EUR 10,000. In this gap, of course, it has much to do with the dismantling of the basic pillars that make up the state of well-being. In Galicia, between 2011 and 2014, unemployment increased by about 40,000 people, 17% more. At the same time, the cost of benefits has been reduced by around 250 million euros per year, 18% less. But they were absolutely unequal cuts, and in the case of subsidies they clearly had a masquerading component; inexplicably, ideology could have been more in the People's Party than justice. Thus, pre-retirement allowances have been cut off in a way that has particularly harmed women. On the one hand, they delayed the age at which they started to charge; on the other, they forced themselves to have another allowance to be entitled to receive it; and, above all, in March 2013 they linked them to family income. This causes the clippings to have a great impact on the genre. In the homes where man is standing only 22% of women have a full-time job. However, when it's the woman who's stopped, the man who has full-time work is about 52%. And since with a full-time job it's hard not to exceed the limit that marks the law to be able to opt for this allowance, in most cases, the woman sees herself deprived of the pre-retirement allowance. We can therefore assert that this is an absolutely discriminatory measure, but above all it is unworthy of a society that has to defend rights. In Galicia, although unemployment in people over 51 years of age has increased by 40% between 2011 and 2014, the rise in the subsidy to over 52, however, has decreased by 50%, and this is the force of leaving women out of that accounting. Paralyzing the allowance also punishes women in particular. About 80% of Galician women have part-time contracts. But not only do they have part-time contracts, but they work more hours than they're hired. Only 11.4% of the work inspectorate's actions focus on employment and labour relations. The labour reforms of the People's Party also contributed significantly to a deterioration of working conditions, but especially to exploitation in women's work. The People's Party, regrettably for citizenship, uses public resources to prosecute the fraud of workers, rather than to prosecute fraud against fraudulent entrepreneurs. Women's participation in the labour market, and inequality in the opportunities they face, condition an economic situation both in the periods they are working and in the periods they are not working on, as their perceptions diminish, both in social benefits and in retirement or unemployment. It is not wrong to remember, at this moment and this day, that in the dictatorship period, the role of women for antonomasia was motherhood. The aspirations for out-of-home work were conditioned by reproductive, educational, and care. Which, while there were still important differences, it seemed that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u295	...it was over, and it seemed like all the administrations had to overcome, unfortunately the People's Party governments were sitting on us in many years ago. We must remind the leaders of the People's Party that the most unequal societies, of course, are the least developed societies. From the Socialist Group, simply appeal to justice, not, of course, to an equal ideology. Because the People's Party comes to say some things, and their laws and actions reflect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u296	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u297	...to continue to discriminate against women in all their fields. But unfortunately, the workplace conditions his whole life, his children's and his family's.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u298	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u299	We will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. First of all, in recognition of the woman's sensitive labour and social situation, it was this government, that of the People's Party, who put in place the largest number of measures aimed at promoting both women's employment and at promoting equal work and wages, as well as conciliation or tax deduction measures. Our most obvious example of these measures to promote women's employment is that women are a priority collective in all employment orders of the Galician Union, as they are – and you know – the cooperation plans for the recruitment of unemployed people, the experimental employment programmes, the training programmes for employment workers, and also the different orders for aid for the promotion of self-employment, for the promotion of cooperativeism and, above all, for aid to businesses, to which a much larger counties are intended when women are engaged. We have to add to this, both the Youth Employment Plan and the Employment Plan for over 45 years, among which, of course, are also women, or also the Emega Plan, of female entrepreneurship. Therefore, the Government of Galicia has several measures to favour and improve the employability of the Italian workers. In addition, part of what you also propose for the unemployed who have exhausted the benefit is already collected in the Royal Decree 16/2014 Activation Program, which includes also the development of an insertion itinerary for these cases. With regard to equal labour and wage measures, highlight the specific order in this regard, with measures to promote the employment of women in the same conditions as men, as you know, the establishment of equality plans in companies and the promotion of women's employment in those professions in which they are still underrepresented. In this sense, we must highlight the Executive Programme, as an impetus for women's leadership and leadership, which allows, above all, to break with that glass ceiling and which has placed Galicia at the head of the State in the launching of specific actions to correct the work imbalance. It has been created – which you also name – by the Italian brand of Business Excellence in equality, which rewards the company's actions for equality. It was this government that put in place the autonomous advisory committee for equality between men and women. For the first time, in this sense, if you are reviewing all collective agreements from the perspective of gender. And as far as you have also referred to conciliation measures, since 2009 you are bet on the creation – as you know – of child schools, day centres, residences, Alzheimer's or disability centers, which add up to 7,800 social squares; time flexibility or telework for administration staff, as well as the new Employment Act, which extended maternity, adoption or reception permits from 16 to 18. Tax deductions for the birth, adoption and care of children and children, in which they have increased from 360 euros to 1200, may reach 2,400 by 2015; the exemption from payment in children's second child or daughter's schools for families with lower incomes; the increase in aid for reducing the day-to-day to single-parent men or families, or the functioning of a home-to-child assistance service, also as a means of conciliation. Come on, I'm running out of time. In this sense, I mean that Galicia in 2015 was the autonomous community with more birth support. It cannot be said that there are no concrete measures aimed at conciliation or at enhancing women's integration into the working world. According to the latest data from the last EPA, Galicia is the eighth largest female unemployment community. The difference between female unemployment and male unemployment is also smaller, in relation to the state's set, I think four points. Therefore, no other Government of Galicia has been able to implement so many policies to promote women's employment, equal work and wages, and conciliation measures, as I believe this Government of the People's Party has done. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this initiative, which today presents the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Author group of the proposal. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u303	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the affirmative vote of both the Joint Group and the Left Galician Alternative as well as the Galician Socialist Party. And, of course, about the People's Party, I think you've forgotten all the measures you've put in place so that the Greek women are taller, they live longer, they look better. Because to say that it was this government that put measures on the entrepreneurship, freely!, when it was refused from the People's Party and from the Government that the Government's own entrepreneurship unit had a specific section on gender issues; when, as we know, no support is being made that is not the Emega Programme, which has been operating for more than 15 years; when, for example, the incorporation of young women into research continues to stop the development of the II Women's and Science Programme, which has taken exactly six years of delay. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo had to evaluate the first program. It has not been evaluated, and, in theory, the 2nd Program is being drafted after a non-legislative proposal passed by commission. We don't know anything about it. And, of course, concrete measures to break up with the glass ceiling? Tell us here what measures the Executive Programme really is and what impact women have on their lives. The data is demolition, they can be painted as they like. The law envisages the creation of a female employment plan, and I don't even understand why you don't even consider that possibility, because you've been used to different plans of all kinds: youth employment, demography, any type of literature, they're very much given to them. Why are they afraid to draw up a female employment plan? Perhaps, because the X-ray that exists on the real life of the Greek women is demolition, Mrs. Oubina. That X-ray's demolition! In each and every one of the indicators, the German women are worse than in the rest of the state, and they have worsened in recent years; and not only because of the economic crisis, which actually leads to more inequalities in the field of work, and more and more, but because the policies that the People's Party has set up in the field of equality are null or worse than null, in many cases they are of reduced rights. That's why it's surprising that the People's Party – Mrs. Oubina – has not even been able to comment on some of the measures, such as the situation of women over 50 years old. Will you ever develop any real equality measures? That was at least one to debate. Because you leave women over 50 years old, with more than 30 years of work, without any possibility at this time of having access to a pension, that's reality. Look, Mrs. Oubina, this is sometimes a deaf dialogue. You here say, it was this government, it was this government... it was this government, that of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, which took steps back in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a plan of excellent markets that puts in value and encourages the possibilities of the markets and squares of abaskets of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u305	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u306	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all, gentlemen. Because we know and we are aware that trade has a fundamental importance for the development of our towns and cities, which contributes to improving their image, favors the security of our streets, enhances their attractiveness, the influx of visitors and even their dynamism, the Popular Parliamentary Group presents this initiative, to boost and improve the competitiveness of small trade, in front of other formats, through the placing in value of our municipal markets and outpost squares. The adequacy and improvement of municipal public equipment is a key element in the development of trade. The actions carried out by the municipalities in the commercial field are essential, and especially in the municipal markets, because the markets in Galicia and the markets in Galicia represent an opportunity not only for the Greek trade, but also for our economy. With values like quality, proximity, customer service, range squares have the most important to be positioned as sales leaders of fresh and perishable product. Municipal markets have a special meaning for all of us. They're part of the common heritage and they're reversing the lives of our towns and cities. They've always been architecturally symbols of modernity. They are well located commercially, as they occupy central buildings or in strategic points of traditional neighborhoods, under vanguards buildings or renovated centenary buildings. They have the capacity to generate wealth and employment for themselves, and so we have the case that I know, which is the case of Ourense, who was able to generate in full economic crisis 27 new businesses or establishments. I repeat, in full economic crisis and with totally obsolete facilities. But besides the range squares have the ability to generate other complementary activities around them, generators, in turn, of wealth and employment; and they constitute an effective marketing channel and the best way out of the quality of the Greek product, from the sea, as well as from the land, as well as from the livestock. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have to be able to turn them into real motors of proximity trade because they have the capacity to seal it. It is therefore necessary to condition these spaces to the needs of both traders and consumers. The Government of Galicia has been working on this issue in recent years. In fact, the range squares are one of the specific axes of the small-trade sector support strategy; with action in recent years in more than 80 markets of the 102 we have in Galicia, and with economic proximity that exceeded the 17 million euros. In the course of the year, commercial support programmes have been launched for EUR 7.6 million, which are focused, in addition, on boosting the municipalities to improve markets, supporting trade associations, innovation and modernisation. We take advantage of the opportunities offered by our range squares – I repeat –: quality, proximity and customer care. And we took a step further by approving this initiative, asking the Government to activate an excellent market plan that would enhance and encourage the possibilities of our markets and markets, highlighting those that present the best infrastructures and the best services to their customers and visitors. That is what this initiative calls for, ladies and gentlemen. And this is aimed at transforming our shopping malls into centres specializing in everyday buying products, where modern sales are carried out, with services, diversity and excellence; able to combine the tradition of buying with the current modernization; making them attractive not only to ordinary customers, but also to tourists who year by year travel to our land attracted by the prestige of the Greek product. But the municipal markets face several challenges: the need to compete at prices; the variety but at the same time the specialization of supply; the lack of adaptability of their structures; the limitations of the surfaces they occupy, among other challenges to overcome. And, on the other hand, consumption habits are constantly evolving and society is increasingly demanding with quality and hygiene standards and with time flexibility or other facilities such as parking lots and special discounts, etc. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation for the squares of supply is to distinguish and stand out above their competitors, to assume a complete change in business strategy and model, and the Administration must accompany the markets, the pleasures and the pleasures, to face this change. It is necessary to work on the creation and definition of a market-specific quality model, which, under the stamp, the brand, the distinctive – as we want to call it – of an excellent market is a solution for the future. A model that passes, from the very first moment, because the market meets a number of requirements that make it reliable for the consumer: that it is safe to use, accessible to users, environmentally responsible and with customer care services. But above all, as it cannot be otherwise, that commercially fulfills its end: the viability of the businesses there installed. An excellent market mark, which identifies the best markets in Galicia, which provide a service meeting the criteria of quality and confidence. It is also necessary to work on aspects related to the management model and continuous improvement systems. In order to achieve excellence, it is necessary to face the professionalization of the branches of the outlying squares. To develop a system that helps market participants solve the problem arising from daily management, and, on the other hand, to support decision-making to achieve the proposed objectives. To provide the markets with a business model that enables them, for example, to have a joint marketing plan, with a common corporate image, with a customer-oriented joint communication policy or an integrated promotion plan. And yet, giving consumers a number of services like a customer service office, a check-in, a home service, the possibility of buying on the Internet. And to provide an integral computer system that makes it easy to manage all these actions, and a system to get a continuous improvement, such as a continuous training plan for salesmen and technicians, with customer satisfaction grade measurement systems and complaints and claims collection. These are some examples, some of the actions that, among other things, must collect the plan to accompany the markets in order to achieve excellence. It's not about rehabilitating buildings, which too; it's not just about avoiding loss of competitive capacity, it's about gaining competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen – I repeat – through a system that identifies those municipal markets that develop their activity under the parameters of quality and confidence. Finally, and finally, this initiative is supporting a trade activity based on quality, modernisation, innovation and promotion of these types of institutions. Waiting to count on the favourable vote of all groups, that's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u308	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Colors has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u309	Good afternoon. The wager for the Greek trade, for the proximity trade, for the own trade, for the small trade, for the Galician Nationalist Block, I think it's out of the question. We always defend our own commercial fabric, and not only as an element of sale of the products and supplies of the population, of the Greeks and the Greeks, but also because of the important role they have in the vertebration of the territory in general, of the particular towns and cities, and of the rural environment of Galicia. That bet has always been made, so we have been opposed from the very first moment to the first measures which since the Spanish Government had as their objective the elimination of these formats, this proximity trade, and favoring the large areas, favoring the entry of transnational capital. We did this in the first measures called liberalizing by the Spanish Government, which were nothing other than eliminating measures of small trade. And we're still doing it in the face of the last steps that were going in this direction. Measures led by the Spanish Government invading its own powers that the Statute of Autonomy confers on the German Government, but this Greek Government of the People's Party has done absolutely nothing to defend those own competences, to defend Galicia's own trade. We are surprised that the People's Party is bringing this initiative here today because the Council of Economics and Industry has been not only for months, but also for years, with a theoretical campaign to promote and empower the network of excellent markets. Order of aid for 2013, for example, in May 2013, where aid is called for the empowerment of the Greek network of excellent markets. The Industry Councillor takes a whole series of pilgrimages to the deep-sea squares of Galicia announcing the inclusion of different range squares in the Galician network of excellent shops. He was in December in Cambados announcing the inclusion of the range square, when remodeled, in this Welsh network. He was on the Road in January as well. He was in March 2015 also in Pontedeume, announcing that the range square should be included within Galicia's excellent market network. He announced in the budgets of the Galician Union of its competition, its council, by 2015 the inclusion of 20 million euros, and today the People's Party comes here to ask the Government of Greece to push for a network, a plan, of excellent markets. The truth is that we are in the electoral campaign, and it is obvious that it is up to the People's Party to come here with electoral initiatives. I am only able to frame it on that objective, Mrs. Romero, because it is not to receive that something you are already advertising, doing, theoretically allocating resources, come here asking the Government to push it. That's why the BNG presents an amendment in which we really demand that the Greek squares be places where they sell Greek and German products; that their competitive and competitive element comes from why they sell Galician and in Greek. That's why we're presenting an amendment that calls for effective assurance that products will be labelled clearly and in English; that people who approach to buy them can clearly identify those who are Greek and not from any other source, who don't play with the Galician brand. We also demand that the use of the Galician language be guaranteed in Galician range squares: the cabbage, the jug, the cheese, the cabbage. The Greek products have their own names in English and we demand that they be specified in the squares of range. And we also call for a plan to defend our own business model, to support the proximity trade, and to limit the installation of large commercial areas. We want the Greek squares to sell Greek products and that's their competitive element. So if they really don't want to just make a nice and serve exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u311	...of propaganda to the Government, they should accept this amendment proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u312	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Group. Mr. Gallego Lumba.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u313	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Romero Fernández, it really does present a non-law proposition here today where everything is very nice, all very well, however, it is indeed incredible that the situation that is going on today by Galician practitioners does not coincide with what you said and, above all, writes in the proposition not by law. It takes a few plenarys – two or three plenarys – the People's Party doing initiatives that have every right, of course, of all light, all beautiful, all very well, but in the end it is to urge the Government for nothing. And I say for nothing because you, in your proposal, do: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to activate an excellent market plan that puts in value and encourages the possibilities of our markets and marketplaces, highlighting those who present the best infrastructures and services to their customers and visitors. Very deep. You owe the Government as God commands. You owe the Government as it has to be, yes sir. It's all right here. Look, what's this for? What's this for? For nothing, because we have a campaign of the best pleasures, photography, delivery, visit. Now they want to do this with the best markets. Look, what the markets need, and especially the small and large municipalities, and not just the People's Party, but all of them, is that you put in budgets the amount for recovery and, above all, for the improvement of market infrastructure. That's what they need. And they have to make a plan – and we have tabled an amendment in that sense – that, along with the municipalities, the Council of Galicia is making improvements to markets and markets. He needs that today, and then all the photos you want. But first, they are committed, especially to improving, to attractive markets, to reform, to maintaining the necessary. And also, as you said, and in that we agree, that they are competitive in sales. But that's then, first you have to set up proper installations, the facilities you deserve. And look, I'll tell you something. This is all done by putting money in the budgets. Because, of course, you come here to say what to do, what to do, what to do, that the Council is improving every day, that budgets... it's a lie! Since 2010, they have made the first budget; since the government of Nuñez Feijóo, who started with nine million in the budgets of the Galician Union, in 2015 they have three million for reform and improvements in the markets of range, and that is why nothing can be done. They make a serious plan, we urge the Government to make a serious plan, along with the municipalities, so that among all of us we will improve the markets and squares of the villages, the people and, above all, the cities. Because I know of a city where I am and where I live, which is Vigo, who made a reform of the Progress Market, that of the Berbés market – they are doing it – of the Calvary market, of the Traves market, spending millions and millions, and how much did it contribute to the Unity of Galicia? 100,000 euros. And they were lucky, in the latter one, in the reform of the latter. So let's be serious. And, above all, besides having to put in budgets the corresponding amounts, especially execute them. Because, even above cutting year by year since they made the budgets, from 2010 to 2015, from 9 million to 3...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u314	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u315	...don't run the budgets! Even last year they were left to be executed, 3 million, 1 900,000. They spent 1 million alone. So, Mrs. Romero Fernández, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we present an amendment where we say that we work together with the Town Councils, we make an agreement with the Town Councils, to improve what the facilities are, and among all of us, from there on, I think on that path we are going well. Otherwise, for photos and advertisements the Socialist Party is not. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u316	Thank you very much. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u317	Thank you, President. Excellent market plan. What's an excellent market? Which philosophy or parameters motivate you? How are we going to vote for something that they don't define? Of course, I am in favour of encouraging and valuing markets and markets. But not anyway! What is your concrete proposal? Is this growing tendency to convert a range of markets for host uses, mainly directed to tourism, or to a market for elitist products which are difficult to consume by the resident population? Then no, I don't vote for it, because I know the markets of San Miguel in Madrid, where you won't see a single Madrid. Or the most recent one in San Antonio, in the same city, that copied the concept. I appreciate that they were able to recover and make new use of singular or devalued buildings, that they would otherwise have been fed by insatiable cows of urban speculation, but I don't like it, and I think a mistake, oriental to the tourist sector or minority elites. On the one hand, because it's no longer new, and therefore the model can be finished. What works in one place may not work elsewhere, as happened to the City of Culture, when it imitated the Bilbao Guggenheim. On the other hand, and most importantly, because the squares and markeds have a differential fact that reveals a whole socio-economic idiosyncrasy of the inhabitants and of the country where they settle, and that gives them their own sense and personality. That's the real attraction for a high-rise tourism that seeks to dive into a culture and not into a building, a hotel or a spa. I bet by modernising markets and markets, but for residents. They are the ones who pay the taxes, and they must address the policies they finance. Its original use must be maintained by modernising them; improving their efficiency and competitiveness against large surfaces; helping them to adapt to new consumption habits by expanding schedules, implementing new sales techniques, promoting the use of new technologies, associationism or centralizing the service. Please, concrete proposals. But, in addition, Galicia has a differential fact that makes squares something singular, as in Ourense we call it "the Rianxo." Look, that's real, that's a nice word! What a nice name we give ours! It's the women who sell the surplus from the self-consumption farms. Renting the local product is too much, too much, so, along with the improvement of the squares, it is essential to promote a change in the consumption habits of the population with campaigns that encourage local products. If this meets the explanatory statement of the proposal when it refers to revitalizing local and proximity consumption, then I agree. So, do something to avoid red tape that they are forced to, above all else, say that as a European imperative. I disagree in another appreciation of the exhibition of motives, which sees squares and markets as dynamizers and revitalizers of urban centers. It's backwards, it's completely backwards. The squares tend to be in privileged places of historic city helmets, and are currently depopulating and becoming fabulously decorated or nightlife centres, by offering no comfort to the residents. That's why I think any plan to dynamize squares and markets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u318	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u319	...it will only succeed if the resident population can be established in the areas of influence, particularly historical helmets. In those cases where this is no longer possible, there will be a study of the heritage value of the building in question, thus reconverting its role in theatre, social center or the most appropriate in each case. All of this must count on the essential involvement of the local administration and compromise an budget, as pointed out in its amendment to the PSOE, which I think is insufficient. The amendment of the BNG goes further in line with the concrete proposals to promote the consumption of proximity and value its own production, which contributes to reducing the ecological footprint of products, as well as generating wealth and work. Still accepting the amendments, I still don't know which model of squares will be promoted with this plan. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u320	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u321	As the spokesperson for BNG has already said, we are surprised that after several months of the industry advisor announcing the network of markets of excellence, the People's Group is now taking an initiative to create a plan of markets of excellence. Usually, if the Executive has already decided an action, we don't know what to propose here more than for propaganda effects. Usually, even, it always happens to us, that we say if we do this and the People's Party always sets us a fine that we keep doing this, because the Government is already doing it. And if the government is already doing it, we don't understand what this initiative is about. On the other hand, the bottom line is an example of the People's Party's proposals: very pretty words, generalities, but nothing concrete, and of course, without assuming that things are much more complex than putting a service at home today, a modernization on the facade of a building. These issues are much more complex, and they have to come from integrated policies at all levels. Is the savage conversion that has occurred in the last 15 years in small trade in this country because the traders themselves did not have the ability to modernise themselves, to convert? No, no, no, no. Obviously, the general framework created by policies has favored a kind of trade and has harmed another kind of trade at all levels: financial, infrastructure, city management model, of intention as well. It has favored large areas with policies such as so-called timetable liberalisation, trade liberalization, and has harmed the markets, which in fact have many had to close the doors, that to deal with the wishes of the different administrations, it is also true, of the municipalities. In most cases they were allowed to deteriorate, until they were not rehabilitatable, certain markets with architectural value, such as that of Lugo Square, in Coruña. There have been transfers that lasted more than three years, which makes any business impossible from there. They made infrastructures to set up large areas promising jobs, when they then destroy jobs from the small trade. In short, here was affixed by another model that is not the model of small trade. Data from this country's small trade, in recent years, shows it. Galicia has shown, since 2008, a worse development than the average state, the state queue, the destruction of the employment of small trade and the reduction of sales. Welcome if it's true that you have the intention of boosting markets, because we do believe that they must be defended and empowered. First, to defend the job. It's shown that small trade creates more jobs than large areas, and of higher quality. But also to defend the primary sectors of our country and the local market. The primary sectors of our country – the farmers – negotiate with you with the small trade, but don't negotiate with you with the Carrefour or with the Alcampo. So the fixing of a small, powerful trade also favours the maintenance of small and medium-sized farmers. But you can't make this little trade boost with these kinds of initiatives. We are not going to support an initiative that implies a question that is already being made and that nothing is being done. That of excellence repeats itself in everything, in industry, in everything. We believe there has to be a policy for the improvement of all markets of range, of all. We don't want excellent people and others who aren't excellent. We want specific questions, which you bring here concrete proposals for the empowerment of the markets, and then we will discuss them. What's already, in theory, doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u322	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u323	...using the name of markets of excellence, it's no use approving it. I could talk about a lot of specific cases. For example, here was also named the Pontedeume market, also with protests by the tasters by the way the transfer took place; or the tasters of Santa Lucia, in the Coruña, who are reporting that there are works, a transfer and a renewal without taking into account the opinions of the tasters, etc. Those little things from day to day are the ones that can end this business, and with an ad or a photo it won't reverse this situation. So we are not going to support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u324	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Romero Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u325	Thank you, President, again. Mrs. Prado Cores, who is out of the question the support of the BNG to small trade, after filling Galicia with great surfaces, makes me very funny. You've doubled the square meters of surfaces existing in Galicia. They weren't able to pass a trade law, as we did, to request a necessary authorization for open malls, you know? Because in Marineda City, only 2,000 square meters were required to apply for authorization, and with us they have to ask for the entire mall itself. That's how you filled up with big surfaces. And the year 2009 was a massive year of close trade in our community, fruit of bipartisan policies. And look, you have to listen when you talk, because I know the government -- and I said it -- is investing in the infrastructures of the municipal markets, but that's going further. It's about creating a brand, a market distinction of excellence, to encourage markets to improve. To improve their competitiveness, to give them a business plan, to give you a management model, to give you a quality model with a series of requirements. I spoke of the professionalization of the branches of the outlying squares, of turning these excellent markets into motors of proximity. It's just, really, they're denying the ability the markets have to be able to achieve all this. And look, Mrs Iglesias, we don't share... I tell you to go to the square, talk to the merchants and expose them to what they just said. Because the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, in Ourense we have two squares: an arranged and closed, paid with 2,600,000 euros by the Ministry of Development. And the municipal government, eight years old, bipartisan, socialist, more socialist socialist, socialist angry with other socialists, have it closed, without a management model and without any future project. The range square in Ourense is that it falls, it immediately needs a remodeling, and I'm not even able to manage an elevator. With help already given three years ago by the Galician Council, I am unable to deal with this management with the Union. How will they cope with the remodeling so necessary and demanding that our practitioners have, even with the remodeling of all "the Rianxo"? As for Vigo, it's not 100,000 euros. This government has invested EUR 1 million in Vigo's outlying squares. It is true that the Government has promised and committed 20 million euros in five years, so, Mr. Lumba, I propose a transaction involving, of course, the municipalities, but also the other actors. Let this plan be launched this year, but let's not implement this plan because it is the plan that implements and annualizes itself. And that is part of the design of the plan, just as they are part of the design of the plan, all the questions that Mrs Iglesias asks. We're saying that if you make a plan to achieve all these goals, not that I put them here on the table. I put a series of examples of what I thought might be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u326	Finish, Mrs. Romero, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u327	I'm done. I'll try to close a transaction with the groups, I doubt it very much for the attitude. But it is good for the BNG Group that point three – Mrs. Prado Cores – has nothing to do with what we are debating, is the fruit of another debate, nothing has to do with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u328	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u329	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Vázquez Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the dispensation of the new vaccine against type B meningitis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u330	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u331	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Manuel Vázquez, Socialist Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u332	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to read to a non-law proposition that speaks of one of the great health shocks in Galicia. Even today, when in an emergency room or when in an ICU it echoes the word meningitis, a escalation goes through health professionals, and I don't even want to tell the families that they have to suffer from this kind of disease! If I may be allowed to give them data, it's no less. Meningitis – basically type B meningitis – is undoubtedly the most lethal infectious disease we have in our autonomous community: 1 out of every 10 children or children who suffer from meningitis, die; and 3 out of every 10 children or children who have this disease, are left with severe neurological sequelae for their whole life. So up until now it was still one of the great risks to health, which has particularly Pediatrics in our country. Spain has the highest type B meningitis index in Europe and Galicia has the highest incidence of meningitis in Spain, along with Cantabria and Ceuta. If we translate this data into figures in our autonomous community, we're talking about that every year between 25 and 30 children and children in Galicia are going to have this kind of disease. We're talking about, every year, between 6 and 9 children or children in this country are going to have severe neurological or other sequelae because of a disease caused by this germ of meningitis. What was the great drama so far? It was that, if there was good meningitis that was susceptible to vaccination, essentially type C meningitis, the big problem in Galicia is that most of the meningitis, 80%, was produced by a serogroup that was type B. What's new about this whole thing, and why are we presenting this non-law proposal here today? So again, about a year ago, the European Medicines Agency has been regularizing and accepting a vaccine against meningitis produced by type B serogroup, responsible for such high mortality and morbidity in our country. On August 13, 2014, the Ministry of Health recognizes that the Bexsero vaccine produced by the Novartis house is a contrasted, highly effective and highly efficient vaccine. But the surprise comes when in the same month of August 2014 the Ministry of Health, violating all scientific criteria, makes an absolutely inexplicable decision. Decides that this vaccine is not systematically applied; it is not included in vaccination calendars; and, most surprisingly, it is not sold in pharmacy offices anywhere in the country. The dilemma is served, the health professionals in our country, endorsed by the Commission on Vaccination of the Spanish Association of Pediatrics, certainly recommend systematic vaccination on mandatory vaccination schedules with this type of vaccination. The counselor said in the morning, "We act according to the technical criteria." No, the technical criteria, the Spanish Association of Pediatrics, the Greek pediatricians and all referents recommend that it be included in the vaccination schedule. What's the big deal? Well, no vaccination schedule, no sales in pharmacy offices. What are the mothers and parents doing in this country in a vaccine – let me remind them – that it is mainly suitable for health assurances from the second month? Well, what they do is they buy it where they sell it. And where are they selling it? In the pharmacies of Portugal. So, we're watching a pilgrimage, amazing times we're in, where families, when they have a child or a child, in the first three months they have to go buy a vaccine to Valencia, to Melgaço, to Keys, bring it and put it in. With a lot of risks! Because it can break the cold chain, because there's no vaccination control. But the dilemma of these families and the dilemma of those health professionals is when the mother or father asks her, what do I do, or do I vaccinate the child or the child or not? And they say, "Hey, yes, your vaccine." The Spanish Association of Pediatrics recommends vaccination. Once they recommend vaccination, they don't sell it in the Spanish pharmacies, they sell it in the Portuguese pharmacies; we've already come into a genuinely rocky situation. What's going on in the pharmacies all over Europe since August last year? It's sold in all the pharmacies across Europe. I can't find – and see I've read things by preparing this intervention – a single scientific argument to prevent the sale in pharmacies. I can't find a single argument that decides, with a minimally technical criterion, why it can't be sold. Let me remind you of something that is very important – and I tell you as a member of parliament and as a doctor – that Spain has the highest rate of meningitis in Europe. Galicia has the highest rate of meningitis in Spain, with Cantabria and Ceuta and Melilla. And I'm saying something of our own harvest but it's written: the south of Galicia has the highest rate of type B meningitis inside Galicia. So, if you have a family, you have a child or a child who has just been born, it's a real insanity not to vaccinate the child with that vaccine. What do I want to propose here to your lords? For we apply the common sense and solve a problem to hundreds of children and families who are currently disoriented. Let me give you some data that you probably know, but we don't talk about it. In Galicia, about 19,000 or 20,000 children are born every year. There are 19,000 or 20,000 families that are in those first three months with anguish and anxiety saying what do we do? And this is the only thing that comes to ask us to do what all scientific societies recommend: the Spanish Association of Pediatricians, pediatricians of recognized prestige who are working on these vaccines also in Galicia, and that the only thing they're saying is: vaccinate the children! So – not to summarize it in the documentation – the Socialist Party's proposal, the Socialist Group's proposal, is very simple. First, let's force or ask that compulsory vaccination, from two months of age, be included in the Vaccinal Calendar, with the modality recommended by the Spanish Association of Pediatrics. Second – because it takes time, it has to be regularized and so on. I ask the Lords of the People's Party to sell Bexsero, the vaccine against type B meningoccoccal, in the pharmacies of Galicia; I would say of Spain, particularly of Galicia. And thirdly, I ask here that we stop a shameful situation. I'm ashamed that our parents and mothers have to go to Portugal to buy vaccines that we don't sell in Spain for a very simple matter, because we don't like it! And we have the ease and the possibility to solve that problem. I want to finish where I started. In politics we are responsible, and the groups that support the Government have responsibilities. Remember, when you systematically vaccinate, we're practically able to eradicate that disease. Remember that every year 3 children die from this disease in this country; that every year 9 children or children will have severe neurological sequelae. And remember that we've had a vaccine for a year - it's a very hepatitis C-like case, this changed the vertigo speed, fortunately - and the only thing that's incomprehensible, which is inexplicable, is that the Ministry of Health, contravene all scientific recommendations, contravene all proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u333	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u334	... from pediatric societies, do not accept this proposal and limit the sale in hospital pharmacy to high-risk patients. I ask all the honourable ladies, I ask all the parliamentary groups, that we become a body, that we join in this, that we solve this problem to public health – that we would dignify the public health of Galicia – and that, of course, we would be part of a Europe in which there is neither to discuss it, it is done with absolute normality and absolute tranquility. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u335	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. People's Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I, Mr. Vázquez, must begin by congratulating you, though... yes, yes, I must begin by congratulating you on a simple matter, and here's also good for you to play clean. [[Mr. Vázquez Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I have to admit that you pushed me to the left. I had this initiative presented on January 19. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You introduced her on March 19th. [[Interruptions.]] Well, my problem, but deep down we agree on the matter. And besides, I congratulate him, and though because it was me that slow it wasn't the things as they had to go, that shouldn't keep us away from what actually was spoken here today. And we both put this initiative -- my group and its -- the focus, the look, a problem, so each one has its own initiative. And it's logical that if we both look at that problem, let's now put the common sense to see how we give it a solution, too. And you and I will certainly come to an agreement. I'm absolutely convinced. About the clinical epidemiology of what you've talked about here, about meningitis, you know this more than I do, of course. You are a babysitter doctor; I am not a babysitter doctor; therefore, I recognize that in this sense you know more. The data you gave, in fact, are like that. So I could read Galicia has that incidence; and curiously – I too – the South has a greater incidence; therefore, you have given here accurate data. And he also talked about the date on which the vaccine was approved by the European Agency. So here we are totally in agreement on this matter, and we also understand that the vaccine is effective enough for the problem we're talking about, and so we should give it a solution. He is currently dispensing in hospitals. Through hospital pharmacies, it is free of charge. I mean, we're not... let's not go back to Riotorto's spirit, that's not the point. But there's also a way out of this. Therefore, we present to you an amendment – which I think you have read – where we, at its first point, add that in this sense we urge the Ministry of Health to, according to the new scientific evidence available, decide to include the vaccine against type B meningitis in the Vaccinal Calendar. It must be the Ministry that leads the Vaccinal Calendar, and we must tend to a single vaccination calendar, because it is also not good that there is a vaccine calendar proper for each autonomous community. At your second point, you say that, while this does not happen, you enable the Greek pharmacies to dispense this vaccine, as happens practically in the pharmacies across Europe. We will not touch this, this was our proposal, we fully support this matter that you include in your proposal. Finally, we propose, on the drafting you give, to develop an information campaign on the availability of the vaccine against type B meningitis in the pharmacy offices of the autonomous community. We're saying the same thing, and I think it's the common sense here. So, I, Mr. Vázquez, aside from congratulating him – and I'm telling him the truth, eh!, because I had moved forward on the left in this matter, because I was slow –, I think we are debating something very important here today, and I think that with this I have just explained here an agreement is sealed for the implantation of the men's vaccine. Nothing else, Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u337	Thank you, Mr. Santalices. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u338	Thank you, President. Well, as Mr. Vázquez well said, meningitis is an endemic disease in Galicia; we are the third community in incidence after Cantabria, as well as Ceuta. The 70's and early 80's were devastating – I don't know if they wake up – many children and children of this disease died. And if this incidence rate is lower today, it's thanks to campaigns and vaccination systems. The meningocytes caused by Haemophilus and Meningocococcal C are practically eradicated, thanks – I repeat – to vaccination campaigns. There's a variation in this disease, which is bacterial meningococcal meningoccus B, which ends with 10% mortality, and which in many cases results in a fulminating death. Although with a low incidence, it is a disease with great emotional impact, because it affects the greatest good in a society: children and children. In the course of the year, seven cases were detected in Pontevedra, resulting in the death of a girl in Baiona. And a 3-year-old boy from Artexo died in March of this disease. And in Barbados protocols were activated in the face of an outbreak that also occurred in March. Now there is a vaccine that provides for -- preventive medicine, the best medicine -- this terrible, highly effective disease, despite what the counselor said in the morning, proven efficacy and that can eradicate this kind of disease in our country. But again, the economy and politics are mixed with the right to life and health. The financing of this vaccine, its market price, is what prevents health from incorporating it into the official vaccination schedule. And we already know what led us to this: the mother and mother of the Greek and the mother of the Greek overcomes the obligation to have to go to Portugal. A single death is an immense tragedy for many and many. When that death is the death of a child or a child, pain becomes unbearable. And if that death is avoidable, pain mixes with anger, making our existence an inferno. It was shameful for them to have these initiatives to reach this Parliament. We support the initiative. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u339	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u340	Good afternoon. If I am not mistaken, we have just attended, once again, in this Parliament, under that intended – good – coincidence in the objectives, to a further correction of the People's Party in health matters. And no, Mr. Santalices, because if I'm not mistaken, you haven't voted against much of what you say today is totally in favour. So, honestly, I have to look for the tremendous concern of the Galician Nationalist Block for the People's Party's erratic health policy; a People's Party that systematically causes social alarm with the decisions it makes, that makes suffering people their roadmap and that then, when there is a social mobilization, such an alarm, overcomes forced to rectify, and you come here, as I said. No, you guys didn't say that until a moment ago, huh?You guys, until a little while ago, they didn't say that, Mr. Santalices. In fact, the European Medicines Agency approves a drug – at present the only existing one – for type B meningitis vaccine. But the Ministry's decision was that it was dispensed only in hospital stores, but for very specific cases and very few cases. You just said here – all full –: he was dispensated for free in hospitals, as if anyone who had been there and the defendant had been given it. No, you know perfectly well that they were only given very specific, serious, and very rare cases. So what you guys did was create a social alarm. You have done what you have done to your parents and mothers, subject them to uncertainty, subject them to insecurity, force them to do health tourism, Mr. Santalices, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, vacation tourism. Why? Because everybody told them this vaccine was what they were supposed to do, but it turns out the pediatricians couldn't spare it or buy it in Galician shops. In other words, a success in managing the People's Party in the face of health, in the Ministry and in the Council, which until now only made the transmission belt of what they decided in Madrid; it did not raise the voice, nor did it say: this cannot be. Were they rectified today? We rejoice in the Galego Nationalist Block that they rectify, but have the courage to assume: we rectified, we were wrong and this cannot be done with health and people cannot be subjected to this situation. Because, under your excuse, what excuse has the Ministry made for not including this vaccine in the vaccination schedule? What was it? Wasn't the effectiveness demonstrated? The cases were few, and they didn't put it in, that they couldn't dispense in the Welsh shops, because that's why they wanted to control the vaccinations of the population. What did they get? On the contrary, let parents and mothers go to Portugal or buy it on the Internet, which then does not know what conditions, who, as well as where they administer those vaccines, who do not know whether they are included in the vaccination calendar, in the vaccination books, do not know whether they are included or not included, and – what is worse – there is therefore a vaccinated population that is not known; that is, a true spooky, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. With which, if we are watching a genuine correction here today, the Galician Nationalist Block is going to vote in favour, and we rejoice, but we are able to be honest to say: we were wrong, we rectified and we were submitting our parents, mothers, children and children in this country to unnecessary suffering, and what is more, at unnecessary expense, because now what is about to happen – I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and the Galician Nationalist Block will present at Congress, as it has already done, and here – is that this cost does not run at the expense of the parents' and mothers' pockets, because you know perfectly that we are talking about around 300 euros that have to disburse parents and mothers and it is a pending subject if this correction is really done today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u341	Thank you. Alternative Left-Galga. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u342	Thank you, President. For we are again faced with a delicate dilemma, similar to what we discussed a few months ago about the vaccination of the varicella; a dilemma that provokes the emergence of a medication, in this case a patented vaccine and property of the company Novartis; a dilemma that goes to society precisely because of the delicacy of the subject, because meningitis – indeed, as we have said here – is a disease that can be severe, invalidating, causing sequelae and even death. That's why there is alarm in the population, because the obvious existence of a medication that may seem to prevent contamination, and cannot afford it, because obviously the parents and mothers of children who may receive it cause concern and can cause anxiety. It is no less certain that it is customary for pharmaceutical companies to encourage that alarm, intended to press for governments to decide to buy their product and therefore facilitate the business. In this case, it is once again the Pediatrics Association that joins the opinion of pharmaceutical Novartis, to ask that this vaccine enter the vaccine calendar, whereas on the other hand, with a divergent opinion, we have the Epidemiology Association, which requires caution in view of this measure. The dilemmas are resolved either by the existence or not of scientific evidence for any medication or any other progress. In this case, we seem to have doubts about existing studies. The report by the European Medicines Agency, drawn up by the Committee for Human Uses in 2012 – precisely prior to the authorization of medication – indicated that although there were positive tests in relation to immunization, which was tested in various living beings and in some stages of age with positive effects. But on the other hand, it also indicated that there was difficulty knowing the real clinical benefits, because there were still no clinical trials that indicated them; that is, there was no time for clear scientific evidence of real benefits and prejudices; it's probably positive, but we still don't know it clearly. The same thing we moved along with the same speech we had about the varicella vaccine, this group will support all medical and scientific advances based on scientific evidence. And we will clearly jump through a clear public and public R & D policy, something that is not happening today, and that facilitates these kinds of conflicts. Vaccination and health in general is too important and sensitive to leave it in the hands of multinationals, such as this case of this multinational who has already sold us the influenza A vaccines and who has been convicted on multiple occasions for the payment of bribes and the price of their medicines. So we can't know today, we can't doubt the effectiveness of the vaccine, nor can we say that it is necessary to implement it now. Just as we did when we defended the production of generics for hepatitis C, and pharmaceutical research, we wondered today why the People's Government continues to favour pharmaceuticals, when they delete our research, and why they voted in this House against the creation of a public research laboratory proposed by AGE in the amendments to their own budgets. Likewise, it does not seem appropriate to us that, if you finally pass the prescription of this medication, if you do it in a condition where you understand that it is not normal that, while you cannot withdraw by prescription, you can purchase in the pharmacy, so that people with economic capacity can pay for that vaccine and those who do not have it cannot afford that vaccine. From AGE we demand rigour, we demand that any decision that is made in something as delicate as the new medication in children and children should be done in response to the evidence and this rigor, and so on with serious public studies, studies that must be completed with the public industry itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Vázquez Fernández has the floor. Give Mr. Vázquez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u344	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thanks to all the groups, especially those who support this proposal. This is good news for Galicia, this is good news for Galicia. And I, where Mr. Santalices said, that, apart from dedicating myself to a part of children in child rearing, because I am an epidemiologist in the province of Ourense, and there is not a single data all over the world that shows that only infectious diseases are eradicated when the population is massively vaccinated. All scientific data that manages the scientific pediatric societies of Spain, Europe and the United States say that this vaccine is effective at high rates. And we're not talking about flu disease, we're talking about ebola in Galicia. The disease that kills children in Galicia is type B meningococcal, which is the only one that doesn't have. So let me make myself transcendent, because the discourse about the doubt about vaccinations is a classic speech, which the only thing that has traditionally done is to diminish the decision to vaccinate children, because, in the face of the doubt of a small reaction, the effect is tremendously positive. So, of course, what I want is to support and seek unanimity positions. I don't want to steal any more time from you. I thank all the groups, and I say to all because we all bring something positive. This is good news for families, but above all it's good news for health professionals, who come in the dilemma of, if I recommend it and go for it to Portugal, that's not good; and if I don't recommend it, I have a responsibility. It's good news for the Greek health system, which prevents us from a shameful situation. It's good news for common sense, because it's not normal for vaccines to be sold in Portugal, France, Britain and Italy and we don't do it here. But I ask you, Mr. Santalices, and I ask the lords of the People's Party, that this must have a date, we have to set a date to put it there. And allow me to disagree in a small part. The Greek vaccination calendar... Navarra's calendar is not the same as Andalusia's calendar, the vaccination calendar. There is a basic national calendar on which certain diseases that have a high incidence can be applied. So if we say that in Galicia we are where the most meningitis there is in Spain, and that in southern Galicia is where the most meningitis there is in Galicia, and there is a vaccine, we would be foolish if we didn't include it in the vaccination schedule. So I ask the lords of the People's Party to press the German Government so that it can be sold in the pharmacies. The situation is unfair, because what you need to buy at the pharmacy is what you need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u345	Finish, Mr. Vázquez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u346	...300 euros to vaccinate a child. They know it's two plus one vaccine, 73 euros each vaccine. How's the courtyard? What's normal? That they fund the cost of social security, because it's not a comfort vaccine, it's a vaccine that guarantees life. So I celebrate this deal, let's do it now, and we don't have to sell it in the pharmacies. A vaccine calendar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u347	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u348	...galego has to have vaccination against type B meningitis. If possible, in a month, it won't take three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u349	Next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the development of the Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals of Galicia and in particular in the educational and health fields
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u350	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u351	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u352	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Invited to the plenary session, also good afternoon. Welcome on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Today we bring this non-law proposal because just a year ago he took a letter of nature, formally approved the Law for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. I'm sorry that this debate that we are going to have next is not the presence of any member of the German Government. It is precisely the Government that has to develop and apply this rule that we have adopted by the parliamentary groups without a vote against, and that - at least by the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group - it seems that today it will also enjoy an agreement I hope it will unite. I say it's a shame because, if in the Galician Parliament we are able to all the political groups that we are represented in it to reach agreements to put this legal instrument into motion at the beginning of the Socialist Group, but that we have done it all at once, then the logic would be that the German Government, in a year since this law was approved, which entered into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia, would be able to take at least some of the measures included in it. And we have to bring this initiative here, just a year later, because reality is quite different, and I have to regret it. Because not only has this law been developed, but none of the issues covered by it have been put into practice; not even those for which there is no need for budgetary support or legal tool. And I'll take a look at them all. To begin with – we denounced it here in the final debate, when this law was passed – we did not like anything then, of course, that the term visibility or visibility had been removed from the title, because for us it is clear that what is not visible is not normalized, and when the visibility of the title of this law was removed it was a statement of intent. The truth is, what the German Government has done with this law has been this year not to see it, to keep it in a drawer and not to develop it, or even to apply it to those matters that are to be complied with. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this law introduced measures in the field of police and justice, in the field of work, in the field of family, health, education, culture and leisure, sport, youth and communication. And he also laid down obligations not only for the Government, but for the Commissioner of this Parliament, for the People's Valedor, to ensure that this law was complied with. It seems that neither the Government of Galicia nor the People's Valedor were able, one, to develop and implement the law, and another, to ensure its compliance. Although I have to say on behalf of the People's Valuer that at least he met with the LGTBI collectives, although it is also true that in the presentation of the annual report to this Parliament he complained to – I believe from Parliament's own President that he had no more or better means to control the enforcement of this law. Look, among the first measures, at the first articles of this law that we approved – as I say – without any vote against this Parliament, for example, the disclosure of information. Something as simple as it was for the Council of Galicia to watch because what was said in this law was known by the whole of citizenship and, above all, by LGTBI associations, organizations and collectives throughout the autonomous community. And at the same time, the public authorities and the Government of Galicia should establish a fluid dialogue and collaborate with LGTBI associations, organizations and collectives. Do you know what has been done in this way, ladies and gentlemen? There wasn't even one single meeting with LGTBI collectives all over Galicia. Of course, nothing has to do with promoting associationism or developing campaigns to disseminate the actions that these groups were able to do. That's been a long time ago. As far as the State Corps and Security Forces were concerned, there was a very simple obligation that neither budget nor regulatory development were needed, as it was that the training plans of the Galician Academy of Public Security included training actions specifically involving the treatment of the right to equality and non-discrimination of LGTBI people. Neither in the training plans of the Galega Academy of Public Safety did anything to include it. As assistance measures, the Galician Union had to establish measures to support victims of homophobic, biphobic or transphobic violence in order to correct situations of discrimination. Well, throughout this year we were able to observe several episodes of discrimination of treatment, even of violence, I remember a demonstration that the LGTBI collectives have made few dates in the city of Coruña, and as a group of intolerant people threw their eggs at them, and when they were filed a complaint before the authorities and the Corps and Security Forces, they were told that, as they did not give them, they could not make the complaint, among many other issues that we have seen here throughout the year. In the field of work, it was also established that in this case the Labour and Welfare Council would have to initiate information and disclosure programmes, particularly in this field of work, incorporate in the training plans on equality of persons LGTBI and develop or initiate a study on the situation of workers LGTBI. No study done. In this same area of work, it was said that it was necessary to promote the development of a protocol of equality and good practice, both in business and in labour relations; a measure which did not establish any expenditure and which did not also start. Family space. It was mentioned in this law to ensure that there was no discrimination in adoption processes on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. We had to bring to this Parliament this year, with this law already in force, cases of discrimination in the area of adoption carried out not by a foreign government, not by the Government of the State, no, no, not by the Government of the Galician Union itself, who had to set up this law which was passed in Parliament - as I said - without any vote against. It also spoke in the field of health, a fundamental area for the development of this law, which would be guaranteed by the Health Council to information on homosexuality, bisexuality and transsexuality that collects the World Health Organization to all people working in the field of health, both in the public and in private or in the concerted field, to ensure that health professionals knew about this information; to promote campaigns and training courses on the specific aspects, problems and needs of LGTBI people in the field of health; and to ensure health care, according to the need and clinical criteria, of practices and therapies related to transsexuality. These three precepts I have just read, which are included in this law, which would well have been observed that this law had been complied with by the parents and mothers of transsexual children who have just been formed there are few dates in partnership in Galicia! because when their children and children go to the doctor and they say they have a sexual identity different from what they appear, in many cases they are directed to send them to psychiatric treatment in which they are diagnosed with personality disorders, instead of giving them the necessary hormonal treatment to make that social transit so that they do not suffer or their families, and so they are not discriminated against. In the area of education, measures were also established within this bill. Speaking of education today, April 14th, anniversary of the Second Republic of 1931...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u353	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u354	...that republic in which education, literacy is so valuable, in this case inclusive education is essential. Well, since the College of Education and Universitary Order all the measures included in chapter V to develop through this law, incorporating this reality into the cross-sectional contents of student training and making specific training of teaching staff, to establish protocols and disseminate this reality between mother and parent associations, none of this has been done. And then, if you'll allow me the president in the remaining seconds, something that is also important for us and has to do with the concept of visibility of what she was talking about earlier: measures in the field of communication. The law established a broad chapter of measures in this area, including obligations for the public and private media, especially for those who received public funding. Over the course of this year, we have repeatedly asked in this Parliament what I was doing, for example, the Corporation of the Galega Public Television Radio Corporation to adapt to the contents of this law. Mr. General's vague and diffuse responses lead us to the conclusion that, indeed, nothing was being done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u355	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u356	But what's more bloody now is that the Galician Government itself, in an institutional campaign on the occasion of the family's day, on May 15 of last year, that is, with this law already approved, which teaches all the Greeks and all the Greeks, with money, is a family stereotype...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u357	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u358	...what the German Government or Mr. Rajoy would say "normal family", in which one perfectly sees a father and a mother, a grandfather and a grandmother and a child and a child. As if there were no families in this country where there are only two fathers or only two mothers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u359	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u360	...or just a mother, or there are no transsexual children, who are born in Galicia between 35 and 40 every year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u361	Mrs. Gallego, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u362	That's why it's essential...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u363	Mrs. Gallego, your time is up. It's been a long time. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Intervention of parliamentary groups. People's Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u364	Thank you, Madam President. We also welcome all those who are here today from the rostrum. As Mrs Gallego, the proposer of this non-law, has already said here, this Parliament approved at the plenary session on 8 April last year, fruit of the political consensus of the parliamentary groups, the LGTBI law, which was the result of taking into consideration a bill tabled by the Socialist Party and then amended by the other political groups, therefore it is a law for all. He counted on the positive vote of the People's Party, the Galician Nationalist Block, the PSOE, and, well, he also counted on the exception of the Left Galician Alternative, even though several amendments have been incorporated into it. This is an integral law whose text consolidates the principle of equal treatment, non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity of LGTBI people, including cross-sectional measures covering all areas of administration. In this way, Galicia was the first autonomous community that counted on a law of these characteristics, a path that they are following and followed other communities. The text you present, Mrs Gallego, has six points that are collected in the various articles of the law, with a point in point 2.2, to which we propose to add a text according to the law, and we also propose in that amendment to add another new point. Before the amendment was defended, I wanted to point out some issues that were referred to, and I say we cannot share certain issues. As for the application and the development of the law by the Government of Galicia, I mean that all departments of Galicia are applying this law since it was passed. Therefore, there is no lack of interest on the part of the Government in the application of the law nor in the lack of development, although it is true that all these measures put in place need a settlement time, especially in the matter of information on what is being done by the Administration to reach the whole society in a standardized way. As for the Council of Culture and Education, it incorporated all its legislation that it is designing in the field of education and development of the values of effective equality between women and men, the knowledge of the reality of the LGTBI collective. Thus, for example, the order establishing the school calendar for the 2014-2015 course incorporated in Article 8 Article 26.2 of this law. This is also reflected in the decree governing the primary curriculum, in the decree governing the basic FP and in the draft draft of the draft of the future decree establishing the compulsory secondary education curriculum and bacharelate that is in public exposure. As for the Health Council, a meeting of the Secretary-General for Citizens' Care with the Association of Transsexual Minor Families is planned to analyse their health problems. In this sense, I would like to congratulate Sara, her family and the Chrysallis Association on having obtained permission from the Civil Registry to change its name in all its public documents. And I also want to say that, as far as therapeutic care is concerned, if they're administering hormone therapies and if they're also designing training activities in the field of affective-sexual diversity, and training and outreach activities are planned through the Galega School of Health. And, as I have to finish, because I mean that what we propose in the amendment we bring here is to add a new point that is foreseen in the local corporation agreement, to put into operation in the information centres the existing attention, guidance and counselling and a specific line of attention to the LGTBI collective, taking advantage of the 80 information centers to the woman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u365	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u366	...–Filled, Madam President–, the centers Love you and the young spaces to give this coverage, and we propose in point 2.2, where it says: "In the whole public health area..." in addition "...in accordance with Article 20 of the LGTBI Law". We hope that you will accept our amendment, which I believe will expand the text, and we will support this initiative that you present here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u367	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u368	Thank you, President. Adolescence is a vital period between puberty and adulthood. It's a time of change and discovery of the sexual identity itself. This discovery of sexual identity is a natural, intimate, individual and untransferable experience that may or may not correspond to the sex assigned to birth on the basis of the genital device. And this does not depend on previous sexual experience. When a teenager or a teenager discovers that his or her identity and or sexual orientation does not correspond to the biological sex and identity that gives him the hetero-patriarchal roles imposed by macho and Catholic society, he or she is confronted with a situation of loneliness and self-defense which, in the worst case, can lead – this is serious, Mr. Tellado – to suicide, as evidenced by the data. Only three out of ten victims of homophobic school harassment report; only three out of ten. Educational centers are not safe spaces for LGTBI youth, although there is a high percentage of girls, and especially boys, who suffer homophobic, psychic and physical violence at school because of their gender orientation or identity. The education system does not respond properly to this question, they live in silence in hell because they don't have support or referees, and often they face the hostility of their families and educational leaders. Being harassed by homosexuals or transgenders implies double suffering: what comes from the harassment itself and the visibility that this implies of an aspect that belongs to the realm of the most intimate. In addition, the feeling of guilt that causes a situation of harassment is very often seen increased by being penalized, misunderstood and assaulted by the Church to which they belong, in this case the Catholic Church, whose position on the subject is very clear in the face of the Vatican's mutism in its non-response of the French Government's request for consent to its new ambassador – we had no reason to know – is homosexual. In this way, a space that should serve as a refuge for them, the communion of souls, is actually two spaces of exclusion where one of the greatest aggressions survives. The Catholic Church is characterized by being the greatest enemy of sexual diversity and also of women. And the harassed adolescent suffers from humiliation, vulnerability, misunderstanding, anxiety, isolation, loneliness, nervousness, defense, fear, anger, impotence, sadness, guilt. She thinks that it is essential to change the whole mentality of society that starts from a real co-educational education system, in which everyone can develop their own identity and sexual orientation without the impositions of moral doctrines of the creeds and patriarchal roles to those who submit to us from the very moment we were born. This initiative, as well as the law it refers to, thinks this Member is warm and insufficient...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u369	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u370	...to achieve the normalization of the natural diversity that characterizes us to human animals. I don't refuse or doubt their good intentions, but they're no more than that, good intentions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u371	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u372	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We also want to greet the people who accompany us from the Galician Nationalist Block. As we have already done in the debate of the law, in the whole amendment process, we consider this to be a fundamental issue, but it is interesting that just a year later if we have to bring this Parliament an initiative that basically requires something to be done; not that it does not develop even so much the law, but that it deals with the fundamental parts and any action is developed. I would like to remind you that the law itself provides for a provision in which a report must be drawn up. It's a pity that this report is not annual, as it happens in other equality laws, as it can be, for example, the Law for the Prevention and Treatment of Gender Violence, and we have to wait three years. But that's important. When that report comes, we will see what schedule they have made and whether they have made decisions by the Government, which is probably following us through the technological mechanisms of this House, and, as many departments are involved, we hope that the Vice-Presidentship will coordinate both work and health and education in that commitment to the development of this law. In fact, I think it would be good for the People's Party to explain how many concrete actions were made to develop this law, for example some that are even at zero cost. How many training courses within the Teacher's Training Program were offered in the 2014-2015 course, as the law collects, to give knowledge of this reality to the teacher? Here's the campaign and the actions they're doing since Chrysallis, the Association of Transsexual Minor Families for the knowledge of that reality. We all met with this association and explained how the teacher, for example, does not know this reality. How many training actions have been taken forward? How many actions were taken in this year's training program? How many are going to go ahead? It doesn't just include it in the decrees that develop the training cycles, no, it's that they could already be developing in the teacher's own training centers. It is also true that they have reduced the teacher's training courses and staff training courses on equal terms. I don't know if they're going to include this. With regard to including the points of attention within the ICDs and the centers I love you, with what professional?, with what training? It is important to know how this action will be carried out in health care and what training will be given to professionals. It's scary that the endocrines themselves have no knowledge of transsexual reality; for example, something that was made manifest at the meeting with the Chrysallis Association. That's a situation the Government and the Health Council should take good note of. Campaigns. The law collects outreach campaigns to make – although that word was effectively removed, purified, from the initial text – that campaign developed by the Government of Galicia. It is true that the May 15 campaign was frightening. The Family Day campaign was a campaign like thirty or forty years ago, with an absolutely stereotyped model. It seems incredible that it has to be Cocacola who normalizes – and we will certainly not advertise this multinational, who has many dark spots – the visibility of the different models of families that exist and that, on the alleged Family Day, the People's Party and the Greek Government are campaigning with all the stereotypes, which was not missing, because in the radio campaign it was the father who took the child to play football, the mother who told the story to the girl... we almost missed the princess model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u373	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u374	...but besides, they had all the stereotypes. We're going to support this initiative, but what we demand from the Government is that you do a report about what the actions you're developing are because the laws are not approved for keeping them in a drawer. It takes two years to get a report. We are pleased that at least this obligation is being met, because the Members and Members who correspond to them at their own time will have to evaluate not only their affirmative vote for this law but the actions they have developed, which is really the commitment they want to hear from the LGTBI groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u375	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u376	Thank you, President. Last year we lost the opportunity to pass a law that really violated the real rights of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual and intersexual people. AGE, after that work done with the rest of the opposition groups, decided to abstain in the presentation because we knew the consequences of adopting a law without a sanctioning regime, without real evaluation of its application, and that even avoided the definitions of the different gender options and sexual orientation. A legal text filled with words that indicate relative character, such as "the Board will urge...", "it will begin to...", "it will be reviewed...", "it will be favored...", and few royal rights. It was clear, therefore, that in fact, the People's Party's Signorias did not intend to implement genuine measures of positive discrimination, which was effectively corroborated when, before the adoption of the Catalan anti-discrimination law, they voted against because in that case it contained a sanctioning regime and the argument was that the measures of positive discrimination were exceeded. I mean, yes but no; aesthetics yes but ethics no. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that you would allow cases of xenophobia or gender discrimination not to be punished, although unfortunately in practice this is often the case. Obviously, that doesn't mean we don't have to ask for the approval, and in that sense we're going to support this non-law proposition of the PSdEG. We find it appropriate to demand from the People's Party that they buy from time to time with legality. In the morning, they were surprised when we asked her to comply with the same law that they apply to Sergas. Do not support by vote a legal text does not prevent any group from requesting compliance with the law. And he said that it seemed to us to demand that you comply with the law because the law is not being developed, it is not developing, there is no regulation. And just today, the Ministry tried, provided or provided data that facilitated state security forces and bodies, 2014 data on hate crimes registered in Spain, which implied that 40% of all these hate crimes were related to sexual orientation, or gender orientation. And that when we know that unfortunately most of these crimes are not reported, they don't qualify as such, the cases of discrimination are not reported, nor are the harassment, because of the situation of the disappearance of the victims. Because, in addition, this data is also corroborated by some university studies that came out of this past 2014, and also, in the case of work, there are data that we have many years ago from the International Labour Organization, which indicate that most homosexuals, transsexuals and bisexuals suffer at their jobs of discrimination. Every time we bring here concrete initiatives that seek to guarantee real rights, as we have done on several occasions, for example on health rights, especially transsexual and intersexual groups, are rejected by the People's Group. And because today, not even the simplest measures, as the proponent said, have been put into action. Because it's peremptory that equality is real and not merely a role in which discrimination is commented, while aggression and discrimination itself continue to happen in the streets. So, given these reasons, we're going to support the non-law proposal. And by the way, even if it doesn't have to do with this initiative, I would also like to remind these 400 human beings who today, most of them, have died drowned in the Mediterranean by the wear of this system, those "nadies" who never motivate any national struggle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u377	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u378	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to thank all the groups for their support for this initiative. Of course, we're going to accept the amendment, because it's addendum, among other things. But I would like to tell the leaders of the People's Party, and especially Mrs Oubiña, who spoke in the debate of this initiative, that it is of no use to paint a reality that does not exist, and to come here to defend an absent government in the debate, as it can be observed, a government that has not put anything on its side in order for this law to begin to apply, nothing! And I quoted in my speech some of the issues that the Government could do without spending a single penny of euro, only with political will. Because I suppose I call LGTBI collectives to have a meeting with them in one year, sometimes, I suppose that doesn't cost money, but they really didn't call them. Besides, come here and put on medals that a person from the Health Council will receive the parents and mothers of the Chrysallis association... so, man, they will receive them because parents and mothers have to organize an association because transgender children are not being treated properly by public administrations. And those who receive hormonal therapy or treatment are those who were lucky to have found a pediatrician or a pediatrician who derived them well. But there are other children that this association tells us to all parliamentary groups, when we were gathered with them, who are locked up in their homes with a strong depression because they were derived from a medical professional who did not detect the problem and who made a different diagnosis and therefore prejudicial to that child or child, who finally had to pass puberty without receiving this hormonal therapy. And that's a pain for the child, for the child, in many cases it's supposed to drop out of school and it's also a suffering for families. So don't say you're doing something, because the reality is that families are doing what they can, helping each other. And when they're lucky to find a healthcare professional who understands and knows something about the problem, what they're going to do is go through that person's name to each other to help each other. But today we do not have a health protocol, or an educational protocol, which would be as simple as copying it from other autonomous communities in Spain where there already exist, or from other countries of the European Union where they already exist, in order to be able to apply it in Galicia. And that's not done, because in fact, People's Party gentlemen, the German Government what it has is a great intention to approve many projects of laws and many laws in legislation so that it looks like it works a lot, most of them with a mere propaganda and advertising effect. And in this case, as if not to approve it, it would seem that the Government would be little modern, what they did was the aesthetics of approving it. But then, just like the word "visibilization," they kept it in a drawer so that it would never resurface again. The socialists, with this approval today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u379	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u380	...we won't be quiet. We will continue to bring here initiatives to monitor compliance with this law, because it is the obligation of the Government of Greece to comply with it, as it is also compulsory to comply with the others, and not to cover itself in dogmatic matters – in many cases, in the People's Party – in order not to carry out what this law says, which cannot be shielded in budgetary matters. If they don't develop it, it's because you don't think there's a policy of non-discrimination against LGTBI people. That's the reality, so, Mrs. Oubina, not only today's aesthetic vote, but the commitment that this parliamentary group will also control the Government of the People's Party to execute what it has to execute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u381	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure the maintenance of jobs and the continuity of business activity at the factory Vestas Nacelles Spain S.A., in the municipality of Viveiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u382	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u383	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u384	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, workers, workers of the company Vestas, Chavin, Viveiro, present in the gallery, good night. Good night also for the workers and workers, neighbors and neighbors of Viveiro, who had to stay outside the doors of Parliament, thanks to the understanding of the president's lady, who had a great interest in treating this non-law proposition at this good time, entering the nine of the night, so that your problem would go out well tomorrow, as it deserves, in the media. [[Applause]] In the name of the BNG, I have to say that this is the first time that I've ever had to happen to myself that, as a defender of a non-law proposition, the guests of this group who defend this proposal are the only ones who are not there. Nothing happens either, that, as it's so crowded there, they're better off standing than here getting so hot. Workers and workers from Vestas, from Chavín, I hope that the Italian Parliament will be able to make decisions that are positive for all of you, which are important for maintaining the jobs and the socio-work conditions of these jobs, the business activity of the factory you work in, which are important for the Living Town Council, for the Navy, for the lands of Lugo and for Galicia as a whole. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, ladies and gentlemen, calls for a firm and clear commitment from this Parliament to urge the Government of Greece to involve itself, to fully support our industry's defence, to defend jobs and to defend the company's continuity Vestas en Chavin, Viveiro. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG – because it understands that the Government can and should – complains to Mr Feijóo who talks to the company, that he enforces the commitments to a company that receives aid from public money which is counted for millions of euros, part of them granted by the Autonomic Administration, and that he does not, of course, allow the elimination of any job. The German Government, of course, BNG understands that it will not only be to distribute multi-millionaire aid to multinational companies. This evening, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the important Vestas companies, located in the Viveiro Town Hall – in Chavín – in 1998, which had produced pieces called "gondolas", and then wind aerogeers of 2 and 3 megawatts. The Danish multinational Vestas maintains the leadership in billing in the province of Lugo as a socially based company in our province, gives skilled work to 150 workers and temporary to several hundred more. Hence the importance for the possibility of creating jobs in the marine region, even for the possibility of creating even more jobs in this industry. It's also important for the German industrial sector because of the export importance of its production. Unfortunately, the company's management Vestas on 17 March last informed the workers that the production of Chavin aerogerators' factory had been stalled for several months, i.e. at least October; paralysing, according to the company, for a reorganization of the fixed template, reorganization which would entail in practice, in the first communiqué, the extinction of 54 jobs and a temporary regulation file for the remaining 95. Since March 23rd, they're negotiating the company committee and the company. And it's like at the fair, they started offering 54, and the base of pressure, of aid, went to 23. But the worker's entire account. Precarating more of the job, let's say the company's hands up. According to the company, the reason the two ERE announces is to invest EUR 1 million in the factory, and to start producing a latest technology generator, the 2 megawatt Super Slim, which seems to be essential for the company to be profitable globally. The Vestas works committee showed its concern, its disagreement with the company by these two ERAs announced, and called for the social support of all political groups to try to defend jobs and business activity. The company committee – which now accompanies us as part of it in the gallery – has a deep concern about the work plan presented by the company for the manufacture of this 2-megavate Super Slim model. The committee disagrees with these two EREs for three fundamental reasons. The first one is because it could turn Chavín's factory into a high school, and today it's a major factory in this company worldwide. And, of course, they're already manufacturing this model in China, and the plan presented by the company converts this company into secondary. I mean, what they don't do in other places would be done there. Second cause: because they could endanger the jobs and the socio-work conditions of the workers. To say that we now have 150 highly qualified jobs, with working conditions that have succeeded those who have worked before, and now what we want is to lower everything. And one third thing is that the existing staff frame – that is 150 of today – could not be recovered due to the possible relocation of the company. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, shares the concern of the works committee. He showed you his support from the very first moment. BNG understands that the template adjustments of the electrical sector companies have already occurred over these years and no further adjustments should be needed. For BNG, the elimination of jobs should not be allowed in publicly funded companies. BNG understands, in any case, that the Government of Greece must take initiatives to ensure, guarantee, existing jobs and generate the activity to increase jobs in the Greek wind sector. The German Government can and must do this. You must make use of Igape's help. I said earlier: in 2011 they are more than 2 million euros subsidisable – not only by Igape but also at European level – granted to this company. So it's a reason not to change that for cutting off work. It is curious, or it seems to us, that in the same year 2011 this company is subsidized by the President of the Government, today absent – does not bring helmet or vest – that day, if it was there. And in company with the company's bosses, he announced the increase of 250 workers to 500 thanks to the good doing of the People's Party and the wind plan that would come in 2013 and that he would – I say – double in Viveiro but also in Galicia. And in Galicia, this company would go from 500 to 1,000 jobs. The representative of Vestas, also on that day of orange vest and orange helmet, considered it essential this new regulatory framework that Mr Feijóo announced. But finally there was no luck, that was an announcement that remained at all, not because of anyone, it's because he didn't move forward. But instead of going from 250 to 500, today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about trying not to get the 150 that are currently down. BNG understands and defends that the German Government is involved in a direct involvement and dialogue with the company, because it can, because it has already offered help. Because, moreover, this company may be interested in connections, in communication of large benefits that the Government of Greece can and should put in place; initiatives in infrastructure and transport matters to help the company Vestas and others to be competitive. Two data is nothing else: if I had made the variant of Viveiro – designed many years ago and the PP didn't want to do it – the Vestas company that took the same lion was today in Viveiro, and, instead of 150, there would be 300 workers. Another fact: Vesta products have to take them to Vigo. Alcoa's next door. If the German Government wants, and as the Government's friend in Madrid, it can take initiatives that, instead of going to Vigo, the production will be taken by the Alcoa dam. The BNG, ladies and gentlemen, understands that it is not from receipt in today's days to endure 54 more cuts, nor 42 or 23. We can't allow the loss of more jobs in the Navy area, we can't allow it to continue to undermine quality employment, we can't allow more impoverishment or more emigration. For BNG this collective dismissal procedure has no justification. And I'm going to finish, because the data indicates that the factory is profitable, productive and competitive, as shown by the percentages of production and profits in recent years. So the actions being carried out by the company have doubts, not only about the company committee but also about the whole region, about the company's survival and future. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a non-legislative proposal that the BNG brings to Parliament but it is a non-legislative proposal that the works committee has transferred to us. And I strongly ask this Parliament that, following the designs of our people, let us hand it over and that we give the committee that is here listening to us with good news and can go home with a situation or with a future, say, optimistic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u385	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From the People's Parliamentary Group the first thing we want to say is to welcome and thank the workers of Vestas, of Viveiro, who now accompany us from the guest gallery and also in the outside of Parliament, to whom we also want to show total and unconditional political support – and also personal support, as could not be otherwise – and our solidarity with them. And, honourable Member, when you come to Parliament's gallery, you have to tell the truth. If we have to deal with this initiative at this hour, it is because of the Galego Nationalist Block, which had the duty to be in the plenary morning and it has not been... and we are, ladies and gentlemen, because we are aware that they are suffering from a very complicated situation, motivated by this company announcement to present two employment regulation files, currently under negotiation, which include the extinction of 54 jobs –33 production, 17 logistics and 4 quality – and temporary suspension of most of the factory staff while restructuring. [[Applause]] These, Mr. Pombo, are not empty words of content, because, the difference between other Members of this House, who speak to you, does not know Viveiro for visiting him on vacations, nor for going there only when there is a bad news susceptible to party exploitation. These workers – those who are here, those who are outside and those who are in Viveiro – are my neighbours, and many of them have a face, have names and surnames that I know, that's the difference. [[Murmurs.]] And I had the opportunity to meet with them, together with another Member of this House and fellow of the People's Group, Vidal Martínez Sierra, and with the local president – who also accompanies us today – of the People's Party in Viveiro, Antonio Bouza. [[Applause]] And we had the opportunity to first-hand know what they are concerned about, which is the same thing that concerns the majority group of this House, the People's Group, their concerns, the requests they moved us and the arguments used. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And we could also transmit to them at that meeting what the majority group of this House and the Government of Galicia have been able to do since politics. And, of course, I have to say loud and clear that, even if these EREs are justified in a change of production, we are not in the face of a cessation of global activity. The proposal today is totally unsatisfactory because it involves a very high number of redundancies and because we are talking about a company and a sector in this case that has benefits. And they also know the employees of the company that the People's Party is committed to the future work of this company for various reasons. To the point that Vestas wouldn't be in Viveiro if it weren't for the Popular Party, if it weren't for the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] The government presided over by popular Caesar Aja at the time bought the land and launched initiatives and negotiations to generate the activity. And the People's Party, with another government in the municipality – which I also greet today, which accompanies us to the mayor – also acted to give him legal security when there was a licensing issue. And we have registered an amendment, Mr. Pombo, which says: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to push for initiatives and its scope to, following the announcement of employment regulation files affecting workers and workers in Vestas, located in Viveiro, Lugo, try to secure jobs and the industrial activity of this factory." It was a text, Mr. Pombo, agreed with the representatives of the workers who accompany us today and the People's Group. At the meeting we held with them we woke up each of these terms. And for consistency we're going to defend them, because we've agreed with the workers' representatives. You can do whatever you want. If you want to accept the agreement agreed with the representatives of the workers, you will accept the amendment of this House's majority group, the People's Group. If you prefer to partisanize this situation, you won't accept the amendment. But in this case, I will warn you that the majority and decision-making group will leave an initiative ahead of this House will vote favourably, accept the amendment or not accept it. If you want to be a politician, continue with your initiative. [[Applause]] If you want to accept what the workers' representatives say, you vote on the amendment. And you know why we're gonna do it? [[Applause]] Because we believe that above the words are the commitments. And the majority group of this House, the Government of Galicia, has a commitment to these workers – those who are here, those who are outside and those who are in Viveiro. And we, as a decision-making group in this House, are doing so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u387	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u388	You're going to make politics, as they always do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u389	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u390	And in this case, Mr President, as a majority group, unanimous support for workers is especially valid at the moment of negotiation or at the stage of consultations. [[Murmurs.]] The position of Junta has already been explained to the workers, what we were doing to Junta we have already explained to the workers, what we can do to Junta we have already told the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u391	Finish it, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u392	And we, dear neighbours, continue to keep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u393	Yeah, yeah, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u394	...just as we said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u395	Finish!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u396	...at the meeting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u397	End, time is offset.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u398	...and count on the support of the Government of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u399	40-40.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u400	...and count on the support of this House's majority group, the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u401	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u402	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u403	Thank you. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please, to the guests. Please keep quiet, please. [[Applause]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u404	Mr. Balsairo, how much passion for nothing! to say that you will try it, so much passion and so much speech for no commitment. Ah! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're revolting to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u405	Then don't change them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u406	In order not to change them, you have to have the PP speech, which is totally impossible, because every thing the opposition says alters the People's Party. Well, the problem of Vestas Nacelles, from Viveiro, the ERE presented by the company, has consequences not only for the workers and their families, but it has consequences for the entire region of the Navy, which sees how in the last years of crisis is going to disappear – just like in the rest of Galicia – all the business fabric that supported society. In the Magnificent Navy, according to March data, there are about 5,000 job seekers, representing 41% more than at the beginning of the crisis in 2008. In addition to the considerations expressed by the company committee itself – while from the rostrum I express our support and solidarity, as well as their families, the families of the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u407	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u408	...which is threatened in their future by the decision of the company – I believe it is necessary to mark this situation in the political decisions made by the Government of the State, the Government of Greece and President Núñez Feijóo himself. The People's Party is directly responsible that today thousands of workers – hundreds – from the energy sector are engrossing the ranks of unemployment and emigration. They took hundreds of energy workers to unemployment and emigration and prevented the creation of hundreds of jobs in the sector. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have decided to be the valets of large energy companies and to give multinationals a strategic sector for our country. The Galician People's Party has chosen to prevent Galician companies from entering the sector by preventing them from joining the oligoscopic model that dominated and continues to dominate in our country. Your decision left a roller coaster of companies that closed or stayed under the ERE. But these business measures do not only respond to the worst energy policy of the Union, these measures have much to do with the labour reform imposed by Mr. Rajoy's Government. For foreign multinationals, thanks to labour reform, the need to present consolidated accounts when dismissal is collective is restricted to cases where society has a home in Spain. It restricts the possible causes of ERE nullity to cases where fundamental rights and public freedoms are violated. And it also limited the possibility of individual demands, which are restricted to matters of individual character that are not subject to collective demand. The Vestas conflict is not new, already in 2014 there was a 24-hour strike against the flexibility of the day that wanted to impose the company 200 hours a year per worker. At the bottom of the current ERE follows the company's interest in reducing possible recruitment and thus saving wage costs by expanding the day-to-day of indefinite staff at the balance price. The model that more and more companies follow: either workers agree to make their working conditions precarious or if they are applied by an ERE. This is the blackmail that lies behind the counter-reform of work, which has only served to precaution and destroy jobs. This blackmail takes her forward and lets companies like Vestas, the factory with greater billing from the province of Lugo, not to mention the public aid received. According to the 2015 Ardán Report, only 10 companies located in the Navy managed to exceed 10 million euros of billing. The first of them is Nacelles Vestas, which has the leader with a billing greater than 642,000 euros. The Ardán report also reflects the impact of the crisis on the Navy. Except Vestas, all the other companies saw how during these years their incomes were reduced, how their economic movement was reduced to minimal expression or even disappeared. Until the counter-reform of work, most layoffs were improper layoffs. As of 2012, most lay-offs are objective lay-offs; that is, they spend 45 days in compensation for 20 days. Thus, if by the year 2008, the target lay-offs assume nothing more than 10% of the total state lay-offs, by the year 2012, the target lay-offs already exceed 77% of all lay-offs. I mean, real business abuse supported and promoted by the government itself with its job reform. But in addition, redundancies were also reduced by 22% between 2011 and 2012. So, Mr. Balsairo, for all his passion, if he wants to defend the workers, I vote in favour of canceling that job reform that killed the working class and took away all his rights. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u409	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u410	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. A special greeting to the workers and representatives of Vestas, some workers who are fighting in an exemplary way for their right to work, and, from my point of view, whenever they struggle for their own rights, they struggle for everyone's rights. Hence the sense of deep solidarity that we have to manifest from the Gaga de Left Alternative Group. Mr. Balsairo was talking about the face of the workers and their neighbors, the face that has problems and concerns. Yes, they have that face, but you had your face. Because you have to have a lot of face to go up to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Party and get rid of the work reform that you have approved and allow these situations. Because that's what allows your work policy framework. We have to have a face to get rid of the deregulation of the labour market that the People's Party is causing, and in this situation the workers have. You have to have a face to give tax benefits to large multinationals and allow them to put their money in tax havens, when they have profits, as in the case of this company, which exceeds 6 billion euros, while the workers go to the street. You have to have a face. Because it is tremendous to stand before the workers as the great defender of their rights when it is the foot that crushes them. That's the reality. You have to have a face! The Vestas company is Danish, but you went up here to become Swedish. But the workers aren't fools, neither are we. So please don't take our hair off. Don't take our hair off. You don't have responsibility, do you not have the party's group responsible for the failure of a wind competition with which billions of investments and 14,000 jobs were promised in 2010? What's the result today? Smoke, smoke that takes the wind, never say a day like today. So the current situation in Viveiro, as it has been said, is very serious, neither lends itself to demagoxies nor toasts to the sun. So we have to do something, not just try, we have to make commitments at parliamentary headquarters. Multinational Vestas increased its profits by 14% in 2014, 14%, 6 billion, as I told you at the beginning. So it's not welcome to dismiss workers in this situation. And it's his job reform that allows free dismissal. That's the scene where we are, where workers are blackmailed: either you take it or you take it in the street. That's the situation of the workers who are here today, that's the situation. A situation in which 54 workers are fired and which is subject to a temporary regulation of 95 of the others. Do you know how many people you had to leave? How many of those neighbors you referred to today in the Navy area have been looking for life in other areas? It's been 10,000 since you rule, 10,000 have had to go to other municipalities in Lugo province, to other districts in Lugo province, or even abroad. That's the reality. What horizon do you leave them? Attempts, vague attempts. That's the reality. They therefore assume a firm commitment. In 2013 alone, more than 300,000 euros were given to this company. In exchange for what? What commitments were made to give you the resources of all the Greeks?, maintenance of employment?, setting of technological value?, investment in R+D+i? Some compromises have reached before they drop the money, as they always do, as they did in Milk Food, as they do in the Iron Plan, millions of euros to multinationals to relocate and produce abroad while they fire workers. With them there is no mercy. That's the reality. If you know so much about the Marines, you'll know that there's ERE in Sargadelos, which closed factories like Hermida Furniture, like Ecar, like Finsa. That's the situation of the Navy, they're not for jokes, nor are they for theaters like what you staged here today, Mr. Balsairo, that's the reality. So you make commitments, you compromise yourself with your neighbors, those you meant so much. And tell me what you're going to do, what the German Government is going to do. Will you act or will you be a luxury spectator, as always, while the Navy district bleeds? That's the reality. So, not only will they have this chance, but we're going to have a debate tomorrow about this matter that will come up in a motion. Then they can sign their commitment and not devote any more empty words. The situation in the Navy is very serious, and what's worse: it's all a technology sector, a productive sector, where Galicia could be leading, yes. There are not many sectors, thanks to that policy of industrial dismantling that has been carried out in Galicia for decades, there are not many sectors, but the wind yes, there is a lot of potential, by geographical location, by climate and also because there is already a technological basis that can be viable and functioning. They bet on it and stop rhetorical toasting and take their hair off to citizenship and to the workers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u411	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u412	Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Also to the workers of the Vestas company who today accompany us from Parliament's rostrum, and also to those who are on the street waiting for this non-law debate to be resolved. Mr. Balsairo, I don't think there was a need for an intervention with that sentimental court that you just made. The thing was much simpler, and the workers I'm sure they'd go much quieter home if they had some favorable news. The thing is very simple. If you have it so clear, don't approve the ERE of extinction, it's in your hands, it's in the hands of the German Government, Mr. Balsairo, it's in your hands. That's simple, Mr. Balsairo. And what you didn't say either, Mr. Balsairo, through the initiative we are debating today is that unfortunately this is a further consequence of the energy policies that have been put in place by the Government of the People's Party both at the state level and in Galicia, neither has it, Mr. Balsairo. And I say this because unfortunately the ideological sectarianism of Mr. Feijóo's government has led us to paralyze a wind plan approved by the former Government without any legal basis, as many judgments have shown in recent times. In addition, if this plan of the former Government had been developed, today most of his wind farms would be pre-registrated, Mr. Balsairo, and therefore safe from the cuts of Mr. Rajoy's Government. And all of us here know that Galicia produces almost 9% of the state's electricity, which accounts for almost 12% of the installed wind park, which has almost 17% of the installed power, and which, in addition, produces 21% of the electricity generation from renewable energy sources. Galicia undoubtedly meets the European Union's goal of producing energy with renewable sources. In Spain, Galicia heads primary production with renewable sources. Therefore, Galicia's wind production is strategic for Spain, because it allows to comply with the European Union's 2020 Strategy. But the German Government can't explain and can't assert that position in Madrid, and it's subordinated to a global strategy by the People's Party. Strategy that's nothing other than just putting in place recalibrating measures and starting with the regulated costs of renewable energy. Strategy of a People's Party government that in its objective of ending the tariff deficit, and with the excuse of reducing the price of electricity, has only acted against renewable energies. A government that has assumed as its own the plots of electric lobbies, whose objective is to remove from the electrical system all renewable power to make profitable and to make hollow its underused combined cycles. This is the general framework of the policies put in place by the People's Party. And the consequences of all this, unfortunately, we see them today. And we see them, in this case, through Vestas company, located in the municipality of Viveiro. Company that, as already mentioned here, has just approved one of these so-called business reorganizations that derives from an extinct ERE of 54 workers and a temporary ERE of the remaining 95, as well as from the outsourcing of the warehouse service. And what is the German Government doing in the face of this situation? In a region, as it has also been said here, that it has already suffered a major impact in recent times on the crisis – there is the closure of Ecar, 69 street workers, Mon Group, there is the emblematic company of Sargadelos, where an ERE of extinction of more than 70 employees has been put on the table – is the People's Party not aware of the situation in which they are leading us to their policies? Is the People's Party aware of all this, Mr. Balsairo? Is it aware and that suspension of premiums not only means paralysing the wind plan, but it is also a deadly blow to the metal-mechanical industry in this country with a significant loss and destruction of employment? Is the People's Party aware of all this, Mr. Balsairo? We, from the parliamentary group, have made it clear that this collective dismissal has no justification at all. The company's billing data published a few days ago shows that this is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u413	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u414	...of a tremendously profitable and competitive company. And, therefore, we believe that it is necessary for the Greek Government to make some commitment to the Navy, to make some commitment to the Living Council and, most importantly, to assume some commitment to the Vestas workers, who are in a tremendously complicated situation. And it's not good to come here to stage that they're going to vote in favour even if they don't accept an amendment, that's not the compromise, Mr. Balsairo. The commitment is that the Greek Government has the best, at least, to mediate in this situation to minimize the impact of the dismissal of 54 workers and the ERE of reduction of those 95 remaining. That's a commitment, and that's what workers want today. But you unfortunately stage a theater in this Parliament and then your actions clearly show the opposite. For my part, nothing else, and just saying that we're going to support this initiative presented by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u415	Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u416	Thank you, President. Mr. Balsairo, thank you very much for your support. The Galician Nationalist Block works within this Parliament and outside to defend the interests of the workers of this country, also those of Vestas. I'm going to thank you for the work because if you and the People's Party bring Vestas to Viveiro, it'll be very easy to take the BNG initiative, take all the necessary initiatives to ensure the continuity of existing jobs in the Vestas factory and the continuity of the activity of this factory. [[Applause]] Speak to the work advisor, by the ERE; speak to the industry advisor, absent; and to the president, absent from his current party, to get him. It's very easy. It will be, ladies and gentlemen, the third unanimous pronouncement for this company: the Council of Livestock, the Provincial Parliament of Lugo and the German Parliament. So, workers you're in the gallery, workers you're out there, Marine County, Place, wind sector, we're today in a lucky mood, there's a unanimous pronouncement. The BNG Parliamentary Group, of course, believes that Galicia has the best winds and that the development of the wind sector will have to come sooner or later. The support of the People's Party, as the other said, "viruta pataca", is done. Because Galicia has plants like Vestas, in Chavin, that are competitive in the production of air conditioners. He competed with Germany, with China, and he managed to bring production to Vestas. We have a German Government, which is supported by Mr. Balsairo; therefore, I have no doubt that this will not be like in 2012 when the President announced that 250 would be going to be 500. Now we're going to be able to stop and not come down from 150. So, workers and workers you're in the rostrum, workers and workers you're on the street standing all afternoon, you're going to bring a good news today because the People's Party also in the Greek Parliament is going to vote for it to take all possible initiatives to defend the jobs and the conditions of the Vestas company's jobs. If Mr. Balsairo and the PP brought Vestas from Denmark to the Navy, how can this not be done? Of course, the BNG Parliamentary Group welcomes and thanks all parliamentary groups for their support, and will be in the Greek Parliament and outside the Greek Parliament pending so that all this that Mr Balsairo has said here today and that the People's Party will be a reality. And instead of changing, I would ask you, lastly, instead of talking about that policy, to the Ministry of Industry, which is going to be very easy, which today has just announced that the 2,400 megawatts Galicia aspired to cut in 1,200. You talk to your party, to your party now, not to yours, to yours now, because you also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u417	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u418	...I was a secretary or I don't know what other party. I mean, in politics to Mr. Balsairo, no one we're here can give...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u419	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u420	...no explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u421	Thank you very much. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u422	We started by voting on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left, on the initiative of Mr Fajardo Recouso, who said that he accepted as an addition the amendment to the Nationalist Block Galego and that he did not accept the amendment of the People's Group. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mr. Vidal, okay? They haven't given you a voice yet, Mr. Martínez-Sierra. Give him a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u423	Since a transaction has not been accepted and if you agree to add the amendment to the Block, we would ask for a point vote. And if so, we would vote favourably on 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u424	Do you accept the point vote, Mr Fajardo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u425	I accept the point vote, not as the PP does, that doesn't accept anything from us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u426	That would be two points of the initiative and the third point which would be the amendment you accept, the amendment to addendum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u427	[...] that are voted on as three separate points, that are voted on every two or three points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u428	But either I'm confused or this non-law proposition has two points. And the 3rd is the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what I'm saying. Good. So, if you think so, we are voting first of all on point 1 of the AGE initiative. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the refund of taxes and charges wrongly charged to the Greek sailors in Norway. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Point 1 of the compromise text of the non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u429	We voted for point 2 of the AGE initiative. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the refund of taxes and charges wrongly charged to the Greek sailors in Norway. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u430	And we are voting, as point 3, on the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block. Voting of the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego as point 3 to the transactional text of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the refund of taxes and charges wrongly charged to the Greek sailors in Norway. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Point 3 of the compromise text of the non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u431	We then vote on the non-law proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Balsairo, which I do not believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the demands to be made by the German Government in relation to the creation of a national register of fishing opportunities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 29. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u432	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Alternative Galega de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission for research to determine the political responsibilities that could arise from the railway accident in Angrois. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 15; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u433	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Adán Villamarín, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the development by the Government of Greece of a plan for women's employment, as well as the measures to be taken. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u434	We are voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Romero Fernández, who I do not believe accepts the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a plan of excellent markets that enhances and encourages the possibilities of markets and squares of vast areas of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes in favour, 15; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u435	We are voting on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Manuel Vázquez Fernández, who I believe accepts the amendment of the People's Group. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Solla? Please give a voice to Mrs. Solla's chair. What do you want the word for? [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept a point-by-point vote? The three points separately or any of the points? [[Assentment.]] The first one. Well, first of all, we are voting on point 1 of the non-law proposal. Point 1 with the amendment of the Popular Group. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Vázquez Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the dispensation of the new vaccine against type B meningitis. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u436	And we then vote on points 2 and 3 of the Socialist Group's initiative. Vote of points 2 and 3 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Vázquez Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the dispensation of the new vaccine against type B meningitis. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 62; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. Consequently, points 2 and 3 of the compromised text of this non-law proposal are adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u437	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Gallego, which I believe accepts as an addition the amendment of the People's Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carme Gallego Calvar and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the development of Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equality of treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals of Galicia and, in particular, in the educational and health fields. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68; abstention, 1. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u438	Finally, we voted on the proposal by the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Rodríguez, who did not say anything at the end of the amendment. I understand that you do not accept the amendment of the People's Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and Mr. María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the activities to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the maintenance of jobs and the continuity of business activity in the factory Vestas Nacelles Spain, S.A., in the municipality of Viveiro. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-14-DSPG104.u439	We'll stop the meeting until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much and good night.
