ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u1	Take your seats, please. We resume the session with point 7, which is that of questions for the oral answer of the President of the Galician Union. We begin with the accumulated questions by Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, and Ms. Yolanda Díaz Pérez, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the demands of Vigo citizenship in the field of hospital care Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the health policy to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the new hospital of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u2	First you have the floor, to put your question, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u3	You have several debts with Vigo, first of all a debt of respect to the neighbors who claim something as simple as not being discriminated against, something as elementary as having the same health care as the rest of the country and something as basic as not being deceived by the Government. Victims discriminated against when they are offered different assistance from other hospitals or when they spend 1,500 million euros they don't create a single new hospital bed. 1.5 billion euros for a hospital with less benefits and more operating limitations, with fewer services than others, this is acquainted with the fact that the hospital's own optional ones. Neighbors cheated when the government promises 1,300 beds and builds 800, cheated when a public hospital is promised and a hospital is built that will be private for 20 years. A hospital where public workers are to continuously negotiate work and care conditions because a business profit dimension within the hospital itself is expected to conflict with the clinical dimension. After years of protest by the professionals, unheard of by you, it is now the citizens of every condition who cry out in the streets against the health policy and your response, the only response of the first representative of Galicia, is to consider the protest irresponsible. Is it irresponsible to claim a hospital as public as the others and not less? Is it irresponsible to claim a laboratory hospital? Is it irresponsible to claim a hospital with reference specialities that prevent or transfer to Santiago? Is it irresponsible to claim equal treatment with other cities? The only irresponsibility is theirs when their commitments are lacking and when it imposes as a priority of health policy in Galicia ultra-marriage privatization, privatization as far as possible with the invaluable help of a counselor insensitive to social demands. Do you think all those who have been protesting for so long are irresponsible or are you going to change their attitude and listen to the citizen's cry?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u4	You have the floor, to ask your question, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia. Excuse me, give a voice to Mrs. Díaz's chair, please, that she has no voice on the bench.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u5	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, you really turned what had to be good news into a real nightmare for our country, turned public health into a real calvary for good people. I want to start this session by asking you several questions: the first one is to ask you if you recognize these images, Mr. Feijóo, are you yesterday; I want to ask you whether this work has been received, because it is raining inside and I am yesterday. And I also want to ask you if raining on how you're going to pay the $68 million canon for that private company, because if you're going to pay that millionaire canon in these conditions, you're committing a serious scam to the citizenship of this country. We could tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that it is a triple scam: First of all, asking you questions: why do they change the funding model of Vigo hospital? Why do you commit this fraud by placing this public works concession contract when it had to be private public collaboration, when you know perfectly that in this way you avoid the preceptive report that would prevent you from privatizing that hospital in Vigo? Secondly, Mr. Feijóo, another swindle in which he hits the cuts. We paid four times more for a hospital, we went from 457 million to 1,500 million when we cut 31% of the beds, 31% of the beds in the ICU, 45% of the services, the radiology rooms, and when the central hospital disappears to, yes, do business with a company, as you well know, linked to the People's Party and very close to the Gürtel plot. We pay four times as much less and, besides, when they're closing beds in the remaining hospitals in the Vigo metropolitan area. But besides, Mr. Feijóo, the third scam is that they are incorporating compensation for Vigo's citizenship, everything is private in that hospital except professionals who care for people who are sick; everything is private, Mr. Feijóo: the millionaire parking lot to keep doing business; the waters, they also turned water into private; the armchairs, Mr. Feijóo, pay to have a chair in dignified conditions. A triple scam, Mr. Feijóo, and if you will, if you will allow me, Mr. Feijóo, a terrible situation in which you lied to the citizenship of this country: if there is Aspergillus, Mr. Feijóo. And I would like you to answer why the complaints that the professionals at the Vigo hospital don't come out and tell us if they're right, if it's true that those Aspergillus samples have been kidnapped, Mr. Feijóo,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u7	...if they were derived instead of the national reference centers, if they were derived in a private envelope to the attention of a personal friend of the counselor sitting here and not yet resigned. Mr. Feijó,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u9	...tell us why he's still attacking public health and telling us if he's gonna rescue Vigo's hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm very pleased to start this session talking about public health. I'm very pleased that we're actually opening the biggest public hospital ever made in Galicia. Please me, too, because the Greeks were able to make the biggest public hospital at the worst economic time. Please me, too, because we've been talking about public health in Vigo for 20 years, that a new hospital was needed. This is the first time that a new hospital is made, that a new hospital is completed, and is currently being transferred – the most difficult operation that can be done from an old hospital, forty years ago – to a new hospital. And I'm glad we can do it, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks today for the Greeks tomorrow. I'm very pleased, gentlemen, because this hospital that we're opening with the effort of all the Greeks is three times the General Hospital of Vigo; that is, we have a hospital three times larger than the old hospital of Vigo. Your Honor, it seems that there are Welsh people who are upset – politicians, of course – that the Greek society was able to make a hospital in full economic recession. It seems, Your Honor, that there are some politicians who are upset that public health in Vigo has the possibility of becoming a reference to public health in Galicia. I don't mind, I've been working on this since I was a Member since 2009; there are others who have been MPs for many legislates and they've been looking at other places in Galicia, they've never looked at Vigo. That's why, today, it's time we could open a new public hospital in Vigo. Your Honor, Mr. Méndez Romeo, I regret that the Socialist Party in the field of public health is so irresponsible. I say this because it is not the first time, Your Honor, you will remember these statements: "Mr. Vázquez says that Sergas lends 30 euros to doctors for hospital discharges"; that is, they were saying that all doctors were high enough to benefit Sergas. I remember, Your Honor, this pamphlet of the election campaign: "The Government of the PP wants to charge for going to the doctor – Socialist Party of Galicia –. A consultation, EUR 67; a day of hospitalization, EUR 500; an ambulance service, EUR 374". Your Honor, this has the same truth as all the lies they told about Vigo's public hospital. Your Honor, I regret that your irresponsibility in public health in the previous legislation continues in this. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, there's a total boycott on Vigo's hospital. The Vigo Socialist Council has denied itself to make the Vigo hospital; not to the public alone to make a hospital in Vigo. But he not only denied the ground, denied us water supply, denied us sanitation, denied us the road of connection, denied us electrical connectivity; everything, Your Honor, just so he couldn't raise a public hospital in Vigo. Your Honor, all this the vicars have the right to know, and I, of course, am willing to tell. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, when you tell me this hospital is smaller than the previous one, the previous one is 55,000 square meters and this one is 190,000. When he says, moreover, full of satisfaction that we have fewer rooms, the old hospital has 255 and the new hospital has 567 rooms; that is, more than 300 rooms more than the previous one – i.e. 122% –. Your Honor, this hospital is ready for 1,465 beds, the number of individual rooms with a bed or double will be depending on the care demand, but this hospital is ready for all beds we compromise. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, stop hiding reality. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, not only are we proud of what the Galician society has done in full economic recession, we've been able to finish paying and equip Lugo's hospital, we've been able to expand for five of the Coruña's emergencies, we've been able to make a new hospital building in Ourense, we're expanding the Salnés Hospital, we'll bid for the Burela hospital next month. Your Honor, this year more than 60 percent of the Greeks will have a new or reformed hospital, when the legislation is finished, it will be 70 percent of the Greeks who have a new or reformed hospital. Your Honor, what are we accused of? Do you want to talk about public health, about that association in defense of public health? All right. Galicia, according to that association – which is not suspected of having a relationship with this party, yes to others – occupies the seventh place in the optimal conditions of public health in Spain; when you were ruling in 2006 was number 13, today is number 7. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, this report on public health says that, in the field of citizens' assessment of Greek public health, 73% of the Greeks consider that it works well or quite well, the fourth community that works best in Spain. In the field of primary care, the second community that works best in Spain and in the field of private health concerts, the sixth that less concerts and money devotes to private health. Your own accusations of public health defense fall for your own weight. AGE's spokesperson, with all due respect, to say in this House that we charge for a chair to sleep in the rooms, you're lying You're lying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u12	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u13	Say, Your Honor, that we charge the water, what does the water mean? Is it used in the refreshment machines and in the coffee shop? Your Honor, stop manipulating people, stop manipulating people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u14	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u15	I'm telling you, Your Honor, that we have a public hospital exactly like the rest of Galicia's public hospitals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, the truth is far more powerful than lies. [[Interruptions.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u16	Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u17	Would I be distracted or would you carefully hide the number of beds that will be in Vigo? Does Pontevedra Medical College consider it irresponsible when it speaks of constructive deficiencies, lack of planning, improvisation and absence of a consensus functional plan? The same Medical College that raises its qualified voice against the privatization of management, the loss of reference skills and the location of the laboratory at ten kilometers from the hospital. The Medical College, the doctors, the neighbors who manifest themselves, the hospital workers, the council, are all irresponsible in their opinion? Will everyone be wrong and you'll only be in possession of the truth? Mr. President, you certainly remember that philosophical principle called the Ockham knife that says that, in the face of a problem, the simplest explanation is always preferable. [[Murmurs.]] It's easier to accept the Government's mistake, the counsellor's mistake, and above all, than to think of a conspiracy of many against a hospital. It's easier to think of a wrong decision than a succession of problems than in the concerted will of so many people with different interests to go against a necessary hospital, because no one disputes that a hospital needs. But it was you who introduced all the other conflicting elements: bed cutting, reduction of specialties, privatization of management. Mr. Feijóo, let's be honest with people, wouldn't it be easier to go back to Vigo to the traditional model of public health? I call this reflection, not to answer me quickly now, but to reflect on whether there is a need for a model of health care radically different from that of the rest of the country and, according to the opinion of the vast majority – other than you – of the worst quality and with the worst benefits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. You have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez, of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left-Galga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u19	Mr. Feijóo, do you know we accused him? After twenty years, you have been privatizing public health for twenty years; twenty years since Health and also twenty years in your work with Manuel Fraga, indeed, and Romay Beccaría. You're an expert privatizing and that's what you're doing at Vigo's hospital. Secondly, Mr Feijóo, if we are crazy and crazy and if there are 200,000 people who were walking the streets of Vigo the other day and here nothing happens and everything is right, and there is no Aspergillus and there is no entrepreneurship policy scam and there is no corporate political corruption, if all is right, Mr Feijóo, why did your Members vote yesterday against creating an investigation commission? why do you not allow the citizen of this country to know with light and tachygraphs what is happening in public health in Galicia and, in particular, the PFI scam in Vigo, Mr Feijóo? Tell us today to the Greeks and to the Greeks that you are willing to open a commission of inquiry and, in addition, that you are willing to have that commission of inquiry chaired by someone in the opposition, Mr Feijóo, so that the committees of inquiry serve for something, not like those of the boxes of Galicia that have been cheated and broken or even that commission for the prevention of corruption. Mr. Feijóo, look, the cut in the beds and the extinction of the central laboratory is real, that you charge for everything, except for professionals, it's real, and that you've kidnapped the Aspergillus tests is real, too, one Friday afternoon, Mr. Feijóo. And I'm done now, Mr. Feijó. Do it and we visit the data, Mr. Feijóo; we have the data and they are not militants of Alternative Left Gaga, they are also people of the People's Party who are scandalized, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I believe that one thing you have to copy to Mariano Rajoy: as he ceased one of the worst ministers of health of democracy, who was Mrs. Mato, immediately stopped Mrs. Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u21	Do something that makes sense in this legislation, Mr. Feijóo. And, please, I'll tell you again, will you rescue Vigo's hospital?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u23	Madam President, I will rescue Vigo's hospital from lies and put Vigo's hospital within the commitments of public health in Galicia and Spain. Your Honor, tell me I've been privatizing public health for 20 years. Could you tell me some Galician hospital where the patients are covered for health care? Your Honor, I've been making public hospitals for 20 years, I've made a lot more public hospitals than you can do in what we both have to do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Your Honor, a little respect for public health and for the work of thousands of people who are dedicated to defending public health. [[Laughter]] A little respect, Your Honor, a little respect. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, Mr. Méndez Romeo, you who pretends to be the alternative of government in Spain – here it is not so clear – I say that you keep saying things you know besides that they are false. [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, in addition to the irresponsibilities of saying in the full electoral campaign that we are going to charge for public health – one year left to finish the legislation and yet they have not asked for forgiveness – in addition to saying that all the doctors in Galicia give 30 euros to give discharge to the patients, in addition to you in full transfer – yes, on the day of the demonstration – they take out a statement saying that the socialists are asking for the immediate evacuation of the hospital. [[Murmurs.]] Sir, do you think there's any party that pretends to be an alternative government that can tell the more than 200 people entering a hospital who have to leave because that hospital isn't safe?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u24	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u25	Mr. Méndez Romeo, I don't think you do any favors to your party and I assure you that you do not do any favors to your curriculum as a realistic and sensible politician. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about the hospital building system. You know exactly what the system is, you do it in Balearics, you do it in Andalusia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the hole we received from his government was 1.2 billion euros, they didn't leave a single euro to do that hospital and they didn't leave a single square meter to be able to build that hospital. [[Interruptions.]] We had two possibilities, which you managed, I read the Vigo Lighthouse of May 18, 2008: "The Board opens the door to private participation to finance the new hospital", Socialist Party, Bipartisan Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u26	Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u27	Your Honor, you know perfectly well that to make a hospital of more than 400 million euros we either had to go to the public debt or to seek a speedy payment. If we go to public debt, that's public deficit... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] and with the Socialist Government in Madrid we agreed that we could not go to a public deficit greater than we were pointed out. (Murmurs.) And, therefore, Your Honor, [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u28	Mr. Losada, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u29	...what we did was make a pay hospital hurry up; that's what we did. By the way, Your Honor, do you know that the clauses of the recruitment of that hospital were aimed at compliance with the General Intervention of the Socialist State of Madrid? [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure he knows. Why are you hiding him? Your Honor, why did you hide that all we did was agree with the Socialist Government of Madrid, that we wanted to do a hospital without incurring deficit and the only solution we had was that you handled and didn't, and we did it so that there's a new hospital in Vigo today? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, how can you say there's no new lab in the hospital when that lab is 800 square meters long and when it ensures any analysis that is needed in that hospital within the first 6 hours of such analytics? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, why are you criticizing us? Why didn't you talk about the parking lot today, Your Honor? Is it because you go to the paid Coruña hospital? [[Murmurs.]] Is it because the ones we go to Santiago's hospital we pay? Is it because the ones we go to Ourense hospital we pay? Your Honor, why don't you want to talk about that hospital? Do you know why, Your Honor? Because now we discovered that there was a plot given free of charge by the Vigo Free Zone to the Vigo Town Hall with an initial urban planning qualification of public parking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have been denied that plot, we have been denied the existence of that plot, and now it turns out, Your Honor, that later it is said that Vigo is paid exactly as much as the rest of Spain's hospitals and the rest of Galicia's hospitals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, don't keep hiding. As we get to know reality,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u30	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u31	...we're going to realize that we've been tricked again. Your Honor, why is public transportation the most expensive in all metropolitan areas to go to this public hospital? Why? Why in Ferrol, Coruña and Lugo can we go to the public hospital without being covered by transfers from other places and Vigo refused to sign the metropolitan transport? Why, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, say the number of beds. I told you, this hospital is built for 1,465 beds. The beds are put in the rooms, of course, and if you have 567 rooms, 300 rooms more than the other, imagine if you don't fit the 1,465 beds. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, on examples of hospitals, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u32	Silence! Sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u33	Look, Your Honor, about examples of hospitals,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u34	Sorry, president. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u35	...if you want, we can talk about the Midnight Hospital. You opened the Mexier Hospital 17 days before the autonomic elections. At the Mexier Hospital they compromised radiotherapy and oncology, do you know when we did it? [[Murmurs.]] When we had that hospital in 1994.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u36	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u37	You were inaugurated in 1989. Your Honor, if you want to talk about structural defects in the hospital, go to the Mexoneiro Hospital and you'll see the poorly built facades, the poorly built covers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, we're not just going to make the biggest public hospital that Galicia has ever done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u39	...we'll reform and also improve the hospital you ran, the Mexoneiro Hospital. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u40	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u41	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome, Mr. Feijó. Finally we see his face, because, look, since the last time you showed up a single fire, more acres of fire than all the fires of 2014, 200,000 people have cried out in Vigo against the fiasco of their health policies or, better said, if we heed their curious reading of reality, 200,000 politicians have manifested themselves in Vigo to boycott public health and, since the last time they showed up, the camp has risen to defend our milk. [[Applause]] They had to spend two months of mobilization, the tractors had to collapse Lugo and Santiago so you could meet with the payrolls and now you have to finally report to this House. Mr. Feijóo, the milk problem is a country problem, it is a national Greek problem. Milk is a strategic sector for Galicia and is in danger of its survival and, with that, the survival of our rural environment. You say the European Union is starting to understand the problem, and do you understand it, Mr Feijó? Because the sector does not ask for aid, asks for fair prices; the sector does not demand declarations of intentions, demands concrete and verifiable commitments with guarantees of compliance. The situation in our dairy sector, Mr Feijóo, is not due only to an excess of supply; in the Spanish State there is no excess of supply, Mr Feijóo, it produces six and a half million tons and we consume 9 million. Besides, if there was an oversupply of supply, it would affect everyone equally and when you pass Pedrafita it's already priced. The problem is another: the practices of industry and distribution, which behave like real bosses extorting our owners, and the lack of action of their government. Look, as a country first we were victims of an unfair, discriminatory division of quotas, and after our winners had to be indebted to buy quota, we now suffer the consequences of a liberalization to the brave who seeks nothing but to expel us from the market or push us to compete in marginal sectors that only bring added value and therefore only generate employment. How can it be understood but Brussels sets an intervention price very much below the actual costs of production? So, Mr. Feijóo, are you going to go on doing nothing letting our dairy sector rub? Do you have any strategy to defend the sector? Do you have any other strategy than pressing the moneywinners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u43	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u44	...to accept what Madrid offers? Do you finally have any strategy to end the shame that this bottle of water, Mr. Feijóo, that this bottle of water costs a lot more than this bottle of milk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u45	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u46	Mr. Jorquera, cordially. On the fires I do not discuss with you the authority of the BNG to speak of the success of forest policy. And about the demonstrations, Your Honor, of course we respect all the citizens who manifest themselves, they are exercising a right, a constitutional right, but in the same way that I will never happen to say that I do not respect the more than one and a half million Catalans asking for independence, but of course I say that the politicians who are taking the people of Catalonia to ask for independence are irresponsible. [[Interruptions.]] I know, Your Honor, that you agree with Catalonia's independence. [[Murmurs.]] I don't, which doesn't mean for anything that we don't respect what people say, but if we can censor, of course, think what they say to Catalans, who, if they get independence, will receive Catalonia's money, I don't know how much Galician money and the rest of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, what I do think is that you don't know exactly what we are doing in the dairy sector, because we have made serious commitments and concrete actions and put ourselves next to the producers since the conflicts started, which, when I arrived in 2009, there was already one and now there is another. Your Honor, the Welsh dairy sector is viable and, secondly, I want to tell you that in my view the agreement we have right now is an opportunity that the German and Galician owners cannot take advantage of. Three questions I think well worth sublining. First, Your Honor, the greatest historical production of milk in Galicia is being produced in recent years. We have produced 15 % more milk since 2010, we have produced 2.6 million tons of milk. I mean, Galicia has never produced more milk than now. In relation to prices, we now live a moment's price drop, yes. Your Honor, when we arrived at the Government, the price, when you were in the bipartisan, had been down eighteen consecutive months, was at 0.25 cents in June 2009, a little lower than now. Yes, fuel was 40 percent more expensive, thought it was 50 percent more expensive, and fertilizers were 70 percent more expensive. So BNG said nothing, he said nothing, there was no problem with the dairy sector. Since 2009, we've been claiming a price of milk that covers operating costs, and we're not going to change, Your Honor, let's say now, 9th, 15th and the following years. Ladies and gentlemen, proof that the price problem is not from Galicia, but from Europe and the world, is that the tractors that invade Brussels, the tractors that invade Paris or the milk that is seen on the ground in the United States are a problem that believes the situation of world overproduction of milk. Your Honor, we have an agreement, yes, an agreement that I think is reasonable to sign, in our opinion. Why? Because it's the first time they're going to sign that deal to distribution and industry at the same time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u47	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u48	...to cooperatives and to gain money. Why? Because for the first time it is said in that agreement that milk cannot be used as a claim product and it is also said that the origin of the milk we buy must be realized. It is said, Your Honor, that a standard contract must be established and that the term of effect of that contract is ten days since its signature.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u49	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u50	Your Honor, I tell the yellow gandlers, that is, my neighbours, that this agreement has a lot more advantages than disadvantages. There you are, who are urging them not to take a great opportunity. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u51	Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u52	Thank you, Mr. President, your answer was clarification. For you to rule Galicia is to come to this control session to talk about Catalonia's independence or go to Catalonia to support a xenophobic candidate. Well, look, for us to rule, with which you are falling in this country, is to face when there are problems, to govern is to exercise your own competences and have a country project. [[Murmurs.]] And what project do you have, Mr. Feijóo? What did your Government do to prepare our dairy sector for the end-of-quota scenario? You know what he did? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Our farms have a basic territorial problem. What did your government do? Load the Land Bank and boost the eucalyptization of the country. In ten years we lost 10 % of useful agricultural area, not enough to 25 %, Mr Feijóo, one of the lowest percentages in Europe. More than a quarter of the milk we produced in our country of emigration doesn't become our country, and you know what your government did? Use your international travels to promote and offer milk powder. What a great idea to make Galicia the great low cost of milk production in Europe! She says that the agreement that Mrs Tejerina is offering is as legal as possible, a deal full of inaccuracies, that she does not offer the slightest assurances. Would you like an example? "Lache Río and Danone are paying more prices in full milk crisis." They signed supply contracts by 2016 to exchange millions of tons below production costs. Look, since it appeals to the maximum set by law, use the law, because the pricing by industry is illegal, because the use of milk as a product claim for distribution is dumping, it's an illegal practice. Use your powers as an inspector, Mr. Feijóo, and act, act urgently, because our gangsters can't wait any longer, they're in a limited position. It brings together the sector, negotiates with them a country proposal and defends and pressures in Brussels and Madrid. He exercises for once as president of this country, to end – I insist – with the shame that this bottle of water costs a lot more than this bottle of milk. Defend for once this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u53	Finish, please. Lots of gases. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u54	Your Honor, I thought I was going to bring a bottle of milk with "Gaga 100%" milk. Because you seem to buy low cost milk and I think you shouldn't waste it, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] You must buy "Galga 100 %" milk and in establishments that do not use milk as a claim product. [[Laughter]] That's what the government wants from consumers, and you, who are a consumer, should do it too. [[Applause]] But, finally, there you are, Your Honor. Look, Your Honor, we're going to continue gathering with the winners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u56	...because it's our work, our conviction and our commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought the greatest historical production of milk in Galicia and the highest prices of the 13th and 14th centuries in Galicia. This, Your Honor, is at your disposal, I suppose you know him, I suppose you know him. Your Honor, in the 15th the milk takes a bass, which we disagree with, but I remind you that when we arrived at the Government the price of milk was below what you are now and it has been down eighteen consecutive months, that is, ruling the BNG and thus defending the land. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, EUR 148 million is what we've already injected into livestock holdings, EUR 15,000 per farm. We made 40 million euros available to turn liquid milk into cheese, serums and yogurt. Two projects. [[Murmurs.]] Agolat, 2012, used 200,000 kilograms of milk and now it's in two million; we multiplied by ten. The last project, Lasurgal, Your Honor, used to multiply 31 million milk and now it's going to use 140 million pounds of milk, i.e. 35% more serum production to make cheeses. But not only that, Your Honor. When the problem arises in the summer, we ask the Government of Spain to provide a solution, and the solution right now to inject liquidity, while the prices are not recovered, it is 300 euros per cow on Greek farms that do not cover its costs. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, the commitment is that 40% of the money coming from Europe will be for Galicia. And we will continue to work, Your Honor, without any doubt, encouraging the consumption of Greek milk, telling the Greeks that they do not use milk as a claim, telling them, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more and nothing less than that pre-agreement, the pre-agreement that you do not like, at the moment, the first industrial surface of Spain, Mercadona, has already increased two cents the price of milk ; between the first and the second of Galicia, Vega, has already increased two cents the price of milk; Celta Milk has just compromised new contracts at the most price of milk. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, what are we accused of? What are we accused of, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] You've been saying all along that there was an agreement in France...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u57	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u58	... which increased a minimum price for milk and settled in the agreement. I make the agreement of France available to the Presidency of the House. Tell me the difference between the French agreement and the Spanish agreement? The Spanish agreement is more complete than the French agreement. [[Murmurs.]] What's going on, Your Honor, is that you regrettably don't believe that the greedy people have to worry about their exploits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u60	Your Honor, the gangsters have every right in the world to make politics. Now, the gangsters have every right in the world to know and know the reality of their exploits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u61	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u62	Your Honor, let's not allow any interest other than the gainout to be behind this conflict. And what I assure you, Your Honor, is that the agreement that pursues the Galician Union is a deal of legal maximums, and in that agreement of legal maximums the gainers and the Union are together. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u63	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u65	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5 of non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the activities to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the teaching staff and public educational centres of non-university education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u66	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u67	To formulate the motion not of law t n the word Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u68	Don't leave the media, please, let's talk about education, don't go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u69	Mr. Docasar, you may begin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We already have in our classes, Counsellor, all the Greek students of childhood, primary, secondary, bachelor's degree and university and vocational training. We therefore think in the Socialist Group that it is a good time to talk about education in the plenary of this Parliament, to do it without accuracy and to put on the critical table but also proposals. You know that this humble socialist deputy is persistent and insistent, although I am in a position to affirm loudly that this matters to you less and less, and to the facts I refer, Mr Farignas. Ladies and gentlemen, the second LOMCE course is under way and with the same shortcomings as we have already reported the previous course on these same dates: improvisation, improvisation, lack of human resources in many Greek centers. And there they are to prove what I say to the numerous complaints of ANPA, teachers, management teams and teaching unions. You spoke, as they always do, of a normal course start, Mr. Rodríguez, omitting the numerous complaints from many educational communities scattered throughout our country, and I will put only one example: in Santiago, in Orders, in Rianxo, in Pontevedra, in the Guard or on the island of Arousa, some examples of conflicts that are unresolved, and intentionally forgetting the stringed up of textbooks, the lack of support staff for children and children with special educational needs, the hasty implementation of secondary and grading decrees, which have much difficulty in developing schedules and enrolments in many educational centers. And it serves as an example of the conflict generated with religion in many schools in Galicia, and a clear example we have in the IES A Sangriña, the Guard, where 16 students, probably as a result of that decree he has on the margins of optional difficulties, because they were forced to take, and so they denounced it, Religion without wanting to catch it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of a new school course, we are also at the door of debate in this Parliament about the budgets of the year 16, and that is why we think of the Socialist Group as a good time to also put concrete proposals on the table that can improve our schools and schools and to address or correct the shortcomings that have been reported by different members of the educational community. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially the ladies of the People's Group, if we are really Southern Germany, as you said a few days ago on your visit to Berlin, President Rajoy, it would be good for the citizenship of Greece, and more specifically its educational community, to begin to perceive this exciting feeling of being Southern Germany. I finished the previous course by telling you in July, Mr. Román, that in the months that he had been in charge there had been no significant change in the educational, cultural or linguistic policy of this country, but that we had just watched a mere change of face to continue doing the same policies that Mr. Jesús Vázquez made; that is yes, and I don't feel bad again, in better ways. I had then told Román, when he took possession of his office six months ago, that he did not know if he would have room for manoeuvre to make decisions other than those taken by his predecessor. She also told him that the education community in Wales demanded them, and that their credibility as advisor would depend to a good extent on whether or not she could attend them, and not on filling pages of newspapers, easy interviews with easy questions throughout the summer in different Greek educational media. Your Honor, we are going to make good the recovery of what Rajoy, Feijóo, Santamaría or Montoro speak, we are going to give good the sentence of Rajoy in Berlin that we are really Southern Germany, that is, that we are something like Bavaria. You know perfectly well that the cuts produced in the Greek education system since that magical year 2009 have produced important consequences that you have always tried to avoid and even hide with that magical mantra that it was possible to "do more with less," and even to do more with nothing, as has happened with the basic FP in the previous course. They did not care at all that there were fewer resources for scholarships and education [...] – under that chapter the Central Government at 90 % – that we had fewer teachers and worse working and professional conditions, that they had organized a real chaos with the textbooks – as it is today, ladies and gentlemen – that thousands of well-prepared Thursdays had to emigrate and that they had set up that basic novice low cost cheaply and without putting a single euro throughout the previous course. I want to tell you again today, ladies and gentlemen – and I will not tire of doing so – that the humble achievements achieved in recent years in the Greek education system have been possible thanks to a professor who, in a situation of doctrinal austereness – wanted by Rajoy's German friend – was able to make humble progress. Ladies and gentlemen, I finished the past course and started the current course by asking them to be seriously concerned about putting themselves in danger of the fairness of the Greek education system and telling them that the issues that measured that justice and fairness were many and varied. I finished the previous course and started the current course by asking them not to allow a single child or child to go to class without textbooks and school materials. In this matter you were, unfortunately, from chapuza to chapuza, to the final chapuza, and I bear witness to what the Welsh educational community says. You've managed, with your improvised decisions, to upset the professor, the ANPA, the management teams and even the bookstores, Counsellor. All right, ladies and gentlemen, improvisations and handkerchiefs with the textbooks, stop dwindling the partridge and recover once and for all a system that worked and reached 100% of the population of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you, after this little impasse with your terrible policy of textbooks, that I finished the past course and started the current course by asking them to recover a fair policy of scholarships that does not leave behind thousands of families and that I ended the past course and start the current one by asking them to correct the digital divide between educational centers, as they are found in the urban environment or in the rural environment. These are some of the issues – not all of them – that we have to keep talking about in the current course that we have just started if we want to guarantee seriously, not with empty speeches, justice and fairness of a good education system. And that's why I reiterate to them once again at parliamentary headquarters – we stop a little and take water – that the struggle for that justice and fairness is a matter of principles and values for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I also know it's not a matter of what, let's say, it's appropriate to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really are, as Rajoy says, South Germany, the time has come for us to progressively – and I insist, progressively – draw us from the austerity to which we have undergone our education for the past six years, precisely thanks to the guidelines of that powerful North German leader, with enormous influence on his friend Mariano, from South Germany. We asked them, ladies and gentlemen, to make decisions that could change this noisy involution undertaken by the PP in recent years and to focus their efforts on ending austerity and fighting seriously, and not only empty and humiliating phrases, for stability, equity and excellence of the education system. I am deeply sorry that a few days ago you had refused a matter in the Senate that led the Socialist Party to inject EUR 850 million into the education system. It would be very good for everyone to implement that LOMCE you've done on your own. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we proposing, in particular today, now that we have a new school course and that we are about to discuss this Parliament's 2016 budgets? They are seven concrete proposals, loaded with common sense, now that the recovery has come and we are already South Germany. There are seven very simple proposals: first, let's begin the replacement of the working and professional conditions lost by the teaching group; let's restore the templates that have been cut off by convening a powerful public job offer in 2016; let's address the improvement of facilities that have become obsolete; let's address the replacement of teaching equipment, and mainly computer equipment; let's get hands on the work to eliminate the digital divide between urban and rural education centres; a sixth point, we ensure that no child goes to class without books and school materials; and a seventh point, they have with the necessary resources this basic FP that has implemented the past course without putting into the system a single euro to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u71	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u72	It's enough to sell the supposed kindness of this basic FP without doing it in condition. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group will have its support, and especially with the support of the People's Group. If they don't, ladies and gentlemen, this humble Member will continue to insist on and persevere until he is tired, and you will have enormous difficulties in convincing the Greek citizenship that the recovery has come, that this recovery is robust and that we are indeed southern Germany. Please stand by, and do not vote, as they always do, against all that the Socialist Parliamentary Group does in this House in good faith. Thank you very much in this first round, and I hope that this initiative that we bring here today will be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. Intervention of parliamentary groups. By the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u74	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, very good morning. Of course, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG shares the idea that the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has just explained; we share the idea that the role of the teacher is fundamental in the good running of any educational system, and they also share this idea, the ANPAs, who were on yesterday in San Caetano, in front of the Education Council, and the platform that today is calling for more teachers to meet and give good quality to our education system. We also share the need for investment in the improvement of many educational facilities, as well as in educational equipment. We shared the need for more resources for the educational centres that have implemented the basic FP and have not yet received a single euro. We also share the need to guarantee the freeness of compulsory education, and even reject the application of LOMCE to avoid the negative consequences that this law is introducing into our educational system; it's turning education into a business, privatizing education, making it more confessional, selecting the student and turning far from this student's right to quality education. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, ladies and gentlemen, shares the statement made by the spokesman of the Socialists. In fact, the German professor has lost – I would say that he has been cut, not lost, in recent years during the Feijóo Government – 30% of his purchasing power, between 20,000 and 42,000 euros of cut! His income level is 20 years ago. In line with the substance of the matter, as soon as the Parliamentary Group of the BNG is going to support this non-legislative proposal, but at the same time we are presenting an amendment which seeks a new drafting of the second and sixth points, in order to improve this non-legislative proposal. At the first point, the BNG changes this point, and instead of "starting replacement," we call it "restitution of the working and professional conditions lost by the non-university teaching group in recent years." We do so because we must remember that not long ago, since March, on the day of the working class in Greece, if you defended from this very stage by the teaching majority union in this country a proposal that went in the same direction and that you were ordered to restore the working conditions. For us, of course, we have to return the cut wages and the extra pay cut and complete to all the teachers, but for us it is not worth the model that the People's Party uses to return only the 2012 extra pay and the coup d'élections, in generals, in autonomics, etc., etc. That, of course, is not the model of the BNG, which refuses to take the wages of the workers to save, that is, the bank. We also changed, in our view, the sixth point, and we intend to establish guarantees of free textbooks and school materials for all students of child and compulsory education, the same as we did that same day before the ILP here defended on 10 March, which called for the same question. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish. In this House of Parliament everyone says to recognize the work of the professor, everyone says to defend the quality of public education to defend equality of opportunity, everyone says to support the promotion of our language, but reality is very different: continuing cuts, yesterday and today, many complaints that have already been commented on here: in Vite, in Perillo, in Cabana, in Malpica, in Pino, in Culleredo, in Luintra, in Ferrolterra, on the Costa da Morte... and we no longer talk about the countryside, which can hardly claim, there have practically eliminated the professor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u76	...–Finished, Madam President–. The BNG Parliamentary Group will support this non-law proposal. We hope that they will accept the amendment of the BNG for the improvement of the quality of education in Galicia and for the restitution of working, professional and remunerative rights of the professor. We hope that all parliamentary groups will comply with what they say and mostly support this non-law proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u77	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u78	Good morning, and thank you, President. We support this initiative because the attacks on public education since the arrival of the People's Party Government have not stopped happening and increasing. The policy of cuts in public services and, in particular, in teaching, is gaining alarming chronicity, leading to the reduction of teachers, the increase in rates, the reduction of scholarships – both in the dining room and in the books – to the increase in student education and the elimination of socio-educational services. And, with regard to this latter aspect, the smallest investment in academic reinforcement and support for diversity left without this service the student of 32 primary and secondary schools, when the PROA Plan was removed or not applied; a program of reinforcement, support and guidance that offered public education to students with difficulties. This implies the disappearance of possibilities for integration of students in a situation of inequality. In other words, Junta opts for the future of a child or a child to be lost rather than for investing in her education. Besides, this is more about class and inequality. This government is committed to imposing LOMCE, which is actually a counter-reform in every rule, because it designs an education system of elite and class, under the pretext of improving educational quality and reducing the high rates of failure and dropout. Suppose a swindle to the student for the families and the teacher and go to an obsolete school model and segregationist. It's a sexist law, by allowing concerts with centres that segregate by sex; it's a classicist, by eluding a dangerous concept like that of talent to differentiate the student; it's segregating, because it encourages early separation of the student in stagnant compartments of difficult return to the system; it's centralizing, because, under the right of choice, it opens the doors to the privatization of public education at all stages; it's a mercantilist, because it puts itself to the service of the company seeking the creation of cheap labor; it's authoritarian, because it intends to impose itself at all costs, without consensus, without a consensus that must swallow a law of this silence. On the contrary, aspects such as equity, equality of opportunity, attention to diversity, individualized student performance, and the download of teacher's ratios and hours of education are omitted. In public education, 48 units and 13 centres are closed while 26 concerted units are opened in private education. With the 20152016 course, there is a lack of squares, especially in vocational training; more than 300 centres without sufficient training; more than 200 units with more students than the recommended ones; teachers who follow with their wages and short wages; they increase the precariousness of work in doing the travels of teachers with a temporary destination; 35% of teachers will have to impart subjects from which he is not a specialist – some cases up to 5 different–. And over the last few years, 3,000 teaching posts have been removed, since, while more than 4,000 were retired, the board only calls for opposition to 993 places. And there is no comprehensive plan for the improvement of centres where deficiencies are found, and that today are many, Counselor; 40 percent of the Greek families will not have access to any help for textbooks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u79	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u80	...and they will have to continue to bear the cost of services as a dining and transport. We support this initiative, as I said at the outset, because we are trying to recover what was taken from public education in German since the PP had regained power. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u81	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Left Galician Alternative Group. You have the floor, Mr. Ramon Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u82	Well, after listening to our president, a couple of things are clear to me: the gangsters take their tractors for a tour and take the milk out of excess of benefit; the public hospital in Vigo opens their doors with total normality, without complaining; the start of the school course is being exemplary, as surely will ensure the spokesperson of the popular group soon. I imagine that the sun and a warm breeze will take place these last two days of summer, and I suppose, therefore, the Galician Parliament is a crickets box where parallel realities are spoken of. Because the Greek people know that reality, the reality that lives every day, is very different from the reality that the president of the Greeks strives to show. Yesterday, the school course began, as was said here, a secondary school course beginning for over 200,000 pupils and pupils in Galicia. Last Thursday he did it in primary education, also for over 200,000 students and students at this educational stage. And it's a school start with more students, contrary to what is usually said – in a country that is ill in a serious demographic crisis – but with fewer teachers, with fewer classes, less resources and fewer schools. The course begins in primary education with an increase of 1.1% more students in primary education, compulsory secondary education begins with 0.6% more enrolment, in baccalaureate increases by 4% more enrolment and in FP by 3.4%. There are more students, less teachers, less classes, less schools. This year the school course begins with 13 closed schools, mainly in rural areas, as always, always punished. Starts with 82 deleted classes, deleted. In the rural areas of Galicia, in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, almost half of the municipalities have students of different ages and courses in the same class. So, not only are they precaring the working conditions of the teacher, precarious their functions, decreasing the number of teachers – official figures: 1,250 teachers less in these last five years, but we know that they are many more, it's impossible to frame the figures with a replacement rate at which we have the thousands of retirements that occur each year. Fewer teachers, more precarious, with worse wages, but they are forced to perform functions that exceed their educational competences, administrative functions: it is teachers who manage books banks, teachers who do most of the paperwork, who are obliged to over-bureaucratization to which this government obliges them. Administrative tasks, precariousness of their functions, loss of purchasing power and, of course, decrease of templates. This affects the quality of teaching. What are these 400,000 students going to find in Galicia – as I said at the beginning –? They'll find fewer teachers, less teachers who won't be able to do the support tasks to meet diversity, to follow up their difficulties, to provide them with the educational support they need when they have any kind of learning difficulty. They're going to find a course, a pulsating course of cohabitation—cohabitation in the school dining room, collapsing in the textbooks—and also a course in which the solution is given to them is alms. The government announced and published, in the middle of summer, an aid for the acquisition of school materials...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u83	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u84	...after you have claimed, of course, the entire educational community: 50 euros for a family that does not exceed EUR 5,400 per capita income. So a couple with a child, in order to access this EUR 50 aid, can't exceed EUR 675, EUR 50. The average course start for each Galician family per child is 700 euros: school dining room, school materials, textbooks, supplementary material, a backpack, a bag, the first month of the school dining room, buy a handy... It's a lot of the expenses a family has to make in order to start the course. 700 euros! There are families who have to spend the whole month's salary in order to start their son's course! What's going to stay after the rest of the month to be able to eat? The food bank. The organizations that manage food banks have just denounced an increase in the demand for aid in this course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u85	Please, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u86	Why? Because families have more expenses and therefore less available resources. We are going to support this initiative because we consider it necessary, but I am very afraid – I feel pessimistic – that the Government will not do so because, if it does, it would have to change...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u88	...radically his policies and he doesn't seem willing to. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u89	Popular Group, Mr. Farinas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, Counselor, let's talk about education again. You see what we have, always the same speech, always the same arguments, and not a single initiative. I'm not going to say, Mr. Docasar, that there are vacancies here, I'm not going to say it, but what if there is a lack of alarming ideas that begins to be disturbing, because your only speech in every one of the initiatives that are presented in this Parliament is the same: everything is wrong, when we arrive we will override everything that the People's Party has done. Well, what they don't say is what they're gonna do when they derogate all that if they get to rule, they don't say anything at all. The same speech, in all initiatives, seems to be in committee – by the way, an initiative that you present today exactly the same as the one you presented the other day in committee. I insist, I'm not going to say that no one is vague, what I'm going to say is a total and absolute lack of initiative to present something that is viable for the improvement of the Greek education system. You give up, with that immobility in your initiatives, the pure essence of what the educational system itself is: in constant motion, in constant renewal, with a continuous innovation to try to offer better alternatives to our students. But look, for a lot of reading that everyone here is united in this Parliament, the reality is that we have a Greek education system every year better than the previous one, just the opposite of what happened when others were ruling, just the opposite of what happens where others are ruling in other communities. And let us give an example: here began the course, Mr. Vázquez, indeed, has started the course and, what are we talking about today, the start of the course?, because we are talking here about everything you want – the quality of the system, the excellence of the system, the number of classes, the number of teachers, the number of ALs of the PT number – of what you want – and the PROA will talk about, gentlemen, at the next initiative. But where do you rule, what are you talking about? Let's take, for example, Andalusia. In Andalusia we speak of shells, Mr. Counsellor, we speak of 174 schools that have 328 prefabricated, and increasing classes; but that's good, ladies, there's good; we speak of the digital divide in Andalusia, we talk of the historical debt that will have to pay to the providers of complementary services – there they do not privatize, they are complementary services – they do not pay the suppliers and they accumulate 33 million euros. That's what you're talking about in Andalusia. It's not the same speech here, where they don't govern, where they do rule: 1,030 million euros cut in the last three budgets of the Education Council in Andalusia, 300 million euros cut in infrastructure, just what they claim. Yes, I know, Galician. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here we're talking about a Greek education system that can boast and assume that it has the best results in its history, of taking a 28% school failure and going down to 17.9%, of reducing the school dropout rate to 50% – which is how we, ladies and gentlemen, got it from another government called a bipartite, even so –. I didn't want to make reference, but yes, ladies and gentlemen, you can assume and assume, the education system of the Greek, of mobilizing the largest school transport network in Spain – for free – to mobilize the most supportive school dining room in Spanish territory, and almost that of the European, where 80% of those who go to the dining room do not pay and 5% more pay just one euro. We are talking – which may be presumed and assumed – of getting prizes, both students and schools, of educational excellence at the national level; they can assume and assume that they have a staff frame enough to meet – the other lie that is said here – a ratio that is lower than the Spanish state, with 10.3 students, lowering the teacher ratio – lowering it, not raising it, ladies – and that's what we have to talk about here and not telling speeches they don't lead to at all. Regarding the books, Your Honor, we speak of the books: the Ombudsman advises that the solidarity bank of books be applied in all autonomous communities in the same way as it is applied in Galicia; that today this solidarity bank has 215,000 book equipments already made available, and applied with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u92	...–Finished, Madam President—nearly 100 % of primary books on aid delivery, of more than 70,000, almost 100 %, ladies and gentlemen. They can continue in immobilism, they can follow wherever you want, but they don't forget one thing: the education system improves and improves at every step, every year and every course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u94	...and it will continue to do so undeniably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u95	Parliamentary group – from the bench, Mr Docasar – author of the non-law motion, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u96	All right. Mr. Farinas, I don't know if you've acted in bad faith today or you're a little short of an ear. Because you, of all that I talked about on my own initiative, then you find it bad that I insist, because if I have to insist, there's nothing else left. Today I have made criticisms, I have made criticisms at the beginning of the course – indeed, I have made criticisms – but I have also made seven concrete proposals and you have not had the deference to comment on any of them. You came here with your little book, talked about what you wanted, but I think you should talk about the socialist initiative. If I present it for the second time for something, and I'll probably present it, with some changes, for the third time, because, if you're still deaf, I don't have to insist. I am also grateful for the support of the other groups, finally, with nuanced support. I also thank Mr. Pombo for the subject of improving two of our proposals, so I will accept it. And I deeply regret that the People's Party – I insist – remains deaf. If that recovery has really come, Mr Farinas, what is the reason for us not to adopt positions and take measures to repair the tropics committed in the education system in the past six years? If things get better in our economy, the Greek society will only understand that they're better when it comes to their daily lives. Now my partner Juan Carlos González Santín taught me the bills of the textbooks. You've been trying to change a system that worked, which was more economical, that was 100 percent of the population, and now there's a chaotic system, they like it or they don't like to hear it. And please ask them, and they tell me to the media, to go to the educational centres, to talk to the management teams, to ask them what's going on with the administrative management of books, to ask the families if they're satisfied with the theme of textbooks, to pay important amounts. My partner Patricia Vilan also brought me the bills of a 1st grade boy. I think you guys on that subject are very wrong. I insist: if the economy goes better, if we have better conditions, if things go better, what's the reason for today... Today I have made criticisms, criticisms, Mr. Fariñas, at the beginning of the course; indeed, criticisms and I have put in specific names and places. But I also put seven concrete proposals on the table. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I use it here in public, in parliamentary headquarters, to tell me which of the seven measures I have put here today to improve our education system, if the economy really goes better, which one of them doesn't like, and tell me, please, which one of them doesn't like. I know you're a little deaf or you're acting in bad faith, and I'm sorry that I have a very good personal relationship with you, but you don't listen to me; even if you dare call me vague, and that seems frankly wrong to me. I'm a labourer, I'm a humble deputy, but I'm vague for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolyto Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union in order to improve educational care for students with autistic spectrum disorder (AET)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u98	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Left Galician Alternative, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Group. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Pombo Rodríguez, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-legislative proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Board of Representatives to improve the educational care provided in the teaching of the student with autistic spectrum disorder (TEA) through the following measures:1o. Re-establishment of the agreement signed by the Education Council in 2007 which established the criteria for setting the personnel frameworks necessary for the care of the student with specific educational needs.2o. In any case, the Council will ensure the quality and equity of the education system in the treatment of students with autistic spectrum disorder (ASD): appointing the staff who require educational centres: both teachers and caregivers. guaranteeing inclusive education of all students, with ASD, in public centers, with the necessary support.Promoting legislative development, teacher training, universal accessibility and adequate economic resources, to ensure such inclusive education.3o. The development and dissemination of a protocol that helps educational communities to implement their care and reinforcements."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. At the initiative of Mr Xabier Ron Fernández, through his Deputy Spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, he presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal: Amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to: Provide material and human resources to the Specific Guidance Teams so that they can develop with guarantees their work on the assessment of children and children and be able to intervene educationally from the earliest ages with children and children with ASD.To develop specialized training programmes for teachers in ASD to develop the action protocols and different educational strategies appropriate to the specific educational needs of children and children with ASD.E.I. (Titorization Among Equals) with a view to its inclusion in the protocols for the prevention of situations of school harassment in public education centres in Galicia.To provide all budgetary measures that are necessary for the proper development of the various measures envisaged in this proposal and those that result from the work of the various agents involved in the task of implementing inclusive public education.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Ramón Vicente Docasar Docasar, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal.Additional amendment.The following text should be added, after the resolution of the non-law proposal:– Parliament of Galicia urges the Greek Government to develop Decree 229/2011 on the diversity of Galicia.– Parliament of Galicia urges the Greek Government to ensure that the Greek educational centres contain with the necessary professor of therapeutic pedagogy (PT), and hearing and language (AL), in order to meet diversity.– Parliament of Galicia urges the Greek Government to create a similar protocol for children and girls with dyslexia.)]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u99	You have the floor to formulate your non-legislative proposal to Hippolytus Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Docasar, the word "vacous" I think who used it was you in the commission last day, but, well, in any case, we're going to ours. We present this initiative today in the form of a non-law proposition, but before I wanted to refer, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and those who speak to them as educator, to the explicit recognition of all the associations that develop their work, their efforts, their studies and their dedication to people with some kind of generalized disorder in their development. We present this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, to "improve" – literally I read – "educational care (...) to students with autistic spectrum disorder, through the elaboration and dissemination of a protocol that helps educational communities in the application of the most appropriate care and reinforcements". Let me, without the courage of being prolific in my speech, not even with the intent of teaching, make a brief introduction to the question which today deals with us starting from two ideas traditionally heard, but not because of that correct, but quite the opposite, two misconceptions about this type of disorder: The first is that there are those who think that TEA – autistic spectrum disorder—all general developmental disorders are associated with a deficiency or a defect – let's say – understood as "disease." And it's not true, it's become clear over time, since Leo Kanner spoke for the first time there in 1943 about autism, that this first version or idea he has is a fallacy. And also from the foreign idea, like the other, that the disorders included in the TXD all present a similar symptomatology, when it's quite different. He said that Leo Kanner spoke for the first time in 1943 about autism itself in developing a series of studies with a number of children, and these eleven children took us away to do a more serious clinical study, because he saw that the eleven had gathered a series of characteristics, three in particular: the inability to establish personal relationships, an obsessive ritual to maintain their immediate surroundings without changes and for a change in the process of acquisition and use of language. Kanner was talking about a rich, imaginative world inside these people. Almost at the same time, Hans Asperger only a year later speaks of another disorder with very similar symptomatology; however, he did not have the publicity nor did he come to the community to study with the speed or speed with which Kanner arrived. Today, let's say that there is no total and absolute agreement that coincides with or consensus between the different scientific and pedagogical positions on the origins of this disorder, not even its definition. But if you allow me, with the permission of all your lords, to take the definition that López Rivas and Taboada, of the University of Santiago de Compostela, gives of the ASD: "neuropsychological disorder of continuous course associated, frequently, with mental delay, with a beginning prior to the three years of age, which manifests with qualitative alteration of social interaction and communication, as well as with patterns of restricted, repetitive behavior, stereotyped with different levels of gravity." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Madam President, there seems to be an opposition spokesman who wants to get into the debate, but if Mr Ron was careful, I am reading the definition that three professors at the University of Santiago give on the subject. [[Murmurs.]] If you're all right, I'm fine, and if you have any criticism to do, please do it to them. In this case I'm just transmitting it. And if you have a definition, we'll all be delighted to receive it from your hands. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u101	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u102	No, ladies and gentlemen, nor, according to the scientific community, a drug solution for this disorder, where there is consensus that the solution is part of the treatment in the pedagogical environment. This being so, and as a long process in which all professional, educational, medical and cultural resources must be applied to the treatment of this autism spectrum disorder, it seems that the school must do something, since it is the first area of socialization that the child can have in his or her life. The early diagnosis of this disorder is fundamental, so it seems that the school should provide from the point of view of psychopedagogical offices an evaluation that allows for the adoption of the most appropriate, appropriate measures to be able to work from the point of view of quality with this collective. Galicia has been relying on Decree 299/2011 for a few years, so it regulates attention to the diversity of students from teaching centres in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. This decree gave a definitive impetus to the treatment and conception of measures to care for diversity. But not only in defined and stereotyped risk groups, but individually, and all those who have some kind of language learning problem. On the other hand, the LOE itself, in the writing given later also by LOMCE, focuses on these aspects when it says that educational administrations will provide the means necessary for all students to achieve the maximum personal, intellectual, social and emotional development, as well as the objectives set out in the law as a whole. And it is up to educational administrations to ensure the necessary resources so that students and students who require different educational attention from ordinary people can achieve the maximum possible development. Consequently, decree 105/2014 was adopted here in Galicia, establishing the curriculum for primary education in the Autonomous Community, and 86/2015, establishing the curriculum for secondary and undergraduate education. Although Galicia is one of the most professional communities dedicated to quality educational care and the whole of the student, the Popular Parliamentary Group shares with the advisors who cannot fall into conformityism and who must continue to work from a qualitative approach in this area. We believe it is necessary to deepen more every day in all those aspects and processes that represent an improvement in the educational care of all and each of the students and students. An attitude that aims to achieve the goal that everyone and everyone achieves the highest personal, intellectual, social and emotional development; to improve the integration and strengthening of attention to those students with specific learning difficulties, as can be the case for students with autistic spectrum disorder. As a result of the current legislation, we consider it important to strengthen from education the work done from all fields, including associations dedicated to it. This parliamentary group wants to promote greater coordination and educational support for students with ASD. That is why, from a qualitative approach, we propose to deepen the mechanisms of collaboration among all the people involved in the educational process of this student. For this reason, we are presenting this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, hoping to achieve otherwise recognition, at least the support of the other parliamentary groups. And with regard to the amendments, Mr President, I will set the position in the replica. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u103	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u104	Thank you, President. I agree with the proposal for a non-law in which education must include corrective factors of inequality in order to ensure that everyone has access to a level comparable to that of others. And this is enshrined in the laws themselves, even in those elaborated by these current governments, also in international treaties and in specific conferences. But his speech is in absolute contradiction to his policies and also to the content of this LNP. The PROA plan, which is the amendment tabled by this honourable Member to put it into operation, are programmes of reinforcement, guidance and support, which have been conceived as a territorial cooperation project between the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Education to address the needs associated with the socio-cultural environment of the student, creating a series of programmes to support educational centres so that they, educational centres, can work on correcting situations of educational disadvantage, such as children and autistic children, taking care of the most vulnerable groups, such as this collective, to improve their training. In Galicia, in the course of 20142015, the plan is reduced only to the modality of school accompaniment, directed only to students from 3rd grade to 4th grade of the ESO. And even though he has some laudable objectives on paper: to improve the student's school prospects with difficulties through the organized support work for the acquisition of basic skills that facilitate full incorporation to the rhythm of ordinary work and the demands of different areas and subjects, it's a pity he stays there on paper, like this PNL and like all you present: oratory, chess... all these things. Because in Galicia, in reality, the Union is implementing a policy of facts that in practice turns out to be a disappearance of the possibilities of integration of students in situations of inequality. First, by placing the reinforcement programs in the area of voluntary actions of educational institutions, so that the right to education of a child can be limited simply by being enrolled in a school whose teacher decided not to present himself to those plans. Secondly, because the needs of the students are valued according to the economic availability of the board, and the situations that seek to correct the reinforcement programmes are not evaluable, but they constitute situations of immediate need and they must be treated at the moment they are detected, to ensure that the child or child is included in the normality of the education system. In the course of 20142015, the student of Rubiás is left with no extra support to hire a teacher and more than a hundred pupils in Tomino with learning disabilities lose the reinforcement service of what they enjoyed because of lack of budget allocation. The board gives the program but not the external faculty to carry it out. And so schools are left without support classes because of lack of teachers, so many centers have to give up the PROA program. Because in the face of the increase in requests from external staff who demand a contract, Junta opts for the criterion of keeping those who already had it or sharing it with other centres, and again appeals to the volunteering of the teachers that they offer there. It is the obligation of the Education Council that all children and children in Greece, regardless of whether their school asks or not, whether or not you think you need or not, have the opportunity to receive the teaching care you require. It is the responsibility of the Council, not charity or volunteering, to provide sufficient teaching to ensure the treatment of the required student with the needs and peculiarities that are now given, without meeting the budgetary availability or catalogues of jobs. A child with special needs for attention on socio-economic, cultural, physical, psychic or sensory issues, whether permanent or conjunctural, congenital or acquired, generalized or very particular, in any case has to be helped from the very first moment. The means, the people, the materials and the procedures that enable them to solve these needs must be made available to them, because they have the right to support them. The key is on that right. And that's exactly what you don't want to understand, whatever the cost and availability, it's just like other expenses have to be put aside. She's a child and a child and she's entitled to an education that allows her to face her life like everyone else. If in the explanatory statement you say that the goal is that "all and everyone achieves the greatest personal, intellectual, social and emotional development", then they have to approve this amendment, if not this LNP, it will be nothing, like Decree 229/2011, of December 7. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u105	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u106	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group which, according to the report, aims to "improved the integration and effort of attention to those students with specific learning difficulties", as is the case with students with autism, that disorder that causes mild or serious changes that affect conduct and communication and that sometimes hamper the relationship between people and the world around them. According to the Popular Group, Galicia actually has an education law and even a decree regulating attention to the diversity of students. Laws and decrees that represent, according to the People's Party, "an unequivocal impulse to educational care" to students with specific needs. Indeed, there is a law that speaks of a fundamental principle of attention to diversity. Indeed, within the fundamental purposes of the education system, the quality of education for all students, equity, educational inclusion and non-discrimination is one of the important axes. Even the law itself says that educational administrations will have the necessary means to ensure that all students achieve the maximum personal, intellectual development, etc. And it must, of course, quickly identify the specific educational needs of the student, which in this case proves to be very important for the development of the student throughout his life, and also that that student can achieve the maximum possible development of his abilities. To that end, educational centres must offer an inclusive and quality educational response that compensates for the individual differences of each student who needs that help. The Administration, of course, must ensure programs directed to the conversion of inequalities, must promote the training of all teachers in the care of this student with ordinary and extraordinary measures, within which curricular appropriations, flexible groupings, support with specialist professor, good of Therapeutic Pedagogy, Hearing and Language, mentors and even caregivers. In other words, it is true that there is legislation, but the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, apart from recognizing all those collectives who have been fighting for inclusive education for more than 20 years, who seek first of all to facilitate access of children with functional diversity to ordinary education and, secondly, to provide public education with resources necessary to meet the diversity of classes. And those resources are no less than personal specialists, PT, AL, caregivers, who, by the way, have been virtually reduced dramatically in recent years. Apart from this, the quality training of the professor himself, who, by the way, with Mr. Feijóo's government, was brutally cut. Educational centres must be accessible when it comes to architectural barriers but also barriers – say sensory and communicative. Something needs to be done in this respect and we must have resources to facilitate the teaching and learning process. In short, that all children can have access to the school with the same rights and opportunities, regardless of their abilities and characteristics. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the reality of the educational care for these children is not compatible with the more than 300 centres without the necessary faculty that are demanding the ANPAs from all of Galicia, it is not compatible with two hundred units with the ratio above what marks the law itself, it is not compatible with this quality education with 60 % of the appointed mentors who share center and who are travelling and travelling staff. Ladies and gentlemen, many families have been fighting for educational inclusion for many years, because they believe that the children and children we are talking about can and should share and live autonomously in the centres, despite the LOMCE, which tries to classify the children and separate those who – we say – present some functional diversity. We speak, ladies and gentlemen, of children and children, not numbers. Therefore, the BNG submits to this initiative an amendment aimed at re-establishing the agreement signed by the Council in 2007, which established the criteria for setting the personnel frameworks necessary for the attention of the student with specific educational needs, not the continued cuts of the People's Party. In any case, we want the Council to guarantee quality and fairness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u107	Finish up, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u108	...of the education system – it is finished, Mr President – in the treatment of this student, appointing the staff who require the educational centres, both specialized teachers and caregivers, ensuring inclusive education of all students in public centers and promoting the legislative development and the necessary resources that was needed. Of course, we have nothing against a protocol that helps the educational community to apply attention to these children, but we think that fundamentals are more teachers. I'm sure this amendment is supported...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u110	...many families will be grateful to this Parliament for the real help of inclusive education that they've been demanding for so many years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u111	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u112	Well, good morning to all and to all. This initiative has no credibility. He has no credibility because his own rhetoric is a rhetoric of emptiness, and it is only necessary to list his textuality: "more resources", "to continue working", "to sink", "to persevere", "to count on progress", again "to sink" and now in his oral intervention the "definite impulse". This has no credibility. It has no credibility because reality is much less idyllic, it is much more creative for children with functional diversity in general, and above all and specifically for children with autism spectrum disorder. The reality is much more elevated for these children and their families, and for the educational community as a whole, for teachers, for families, for management teams and for students. He has no credibility because, as the report of the People's Valuer warns, Galicia does not respect the right to inclusive education because there is – and I quote – "tension between this right and the limited supply of adequate resources"; he doesn't say AGE, he gave the People's Report. There was a time when there was an attempt to advance an education that was in a segregator stage towards an integrator stage, but with the continuing cuts, that suppress teachers, that only cause massification of classes, that prevent the necessary educational support, that demoralize the orientation departments subject to instability and precariousness, because it is impossible to advance a merely incipient stage of an integrative character towards an inclusive. And not only that, but we go backwards, we go back to stages of segregation. That's why we want to remember that there's nothing worse for a child with autism spectrum disorder than instability and permanent teacher changes. You just have to see in the catalogue right now in the recent square adjudication contest the interim professor, the substitute professor and the destiny expectation, because here there are no transfer contests that stabilize teachers and there are no opposition squares that stabilize teachers' templates. And, therefore, if there is no stability and we have professored subject to instability, the child and child with ASD is also subject to this instability and therefore has an impact on their process of training and education. So we need stability, we need training, we need specific support in the classrooms to be given with the right technical and visual resources and with a teacher who specializes in the care of people with functional diversity, and in particular with ASD. It's a lot of evidence that the families of these children and children communicated the Gaga de Left alternative in recent courses, but also the staff specialized in caring for these children, and the teachers. It's a lot of smoke. That's why, and as we wanted to offer a small range of concretion, we presented four amendments: On the one hand, to provide material and human resources with specific guidance equipment so that they can develop with guarantees their work of evaluating children in diagnostic evaluation, in order to develop early attention. That's what needs to be done. Why? Because it's forcing families to go to private ratings and have to cost them, and that can't be. Develop specialized TEA teacher training programmes to develop performance protocols and different educational care strategies, suitable for the specific educational needs of children and children with TEA. The third point of our amendment: to draft titration protocols among equal participants in a participatory manner, because the specialized staff alert that precisely this program can have a positive impact on eliminating situations of harassment at school or marginalization that sometimes occur with children with ASD. We therefore call for these protocols to be included in the protocols to prevent situations of school harassment in public centers. And finally, in order to be able to carry out simply these three measures, among many others that are needed, because all the budgetary measures that are needed to develop them properly. As well as those that emerge from the work of cooperation with the various agents involved in the education and training of children and children with TEA. But, of course, it doesn't work out with a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u114	...that doesn't say anything at all, and that says, let's keep it that way. No, sir. So we ask for concretion because everything else is empty rhetoric. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of Socialists. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u116	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Mr. Flours, I hear you very carefully when you speak, which you have not done with me in the previous initiative. And I want to tell you, at the outset, that the Socialist Group doesn't see with bad eyes this initiative that you are presenting today, although, yes, it will allow me to shed some light on certain issues that we understand are very relevant. The Socialist Group believes that it is positive that the group of children and children TEA has a specific protocol for their problem, just as we consider it to be a positive protocol for hyperactive children, and we say here today that we also consider a protocol for children with dyslexia to be a priority, which affects a significant percentage of the student in our centers. And I would like to remind you today, Mr Farínhas, that the first time this Member raised the problem of hyperactive children in Parliament, you went olympically from me, and it was months later when you put it into action with the bomb and the plate and with great media paraphernalia. I understood then, Mr. Farinas, a little better, in case I didn't understand it, that this was about bad politics. It is true that in today's world mental health problems do not play the role they deserve in the public agenda, and this is probably due in part to the current economic crisis, which has produced important cuts in resources allocated precisely to all social policies. The Socialist Group believes that the solution to children and children TEA must come from coordinated work between health and education. A child or autistic child has many chances of failing the education system if it is not properly diagnosed, treated and cared for. They are obviously children and children with difficulty in joining a conventional class, hence the need for this protocol of what we are talking about today in the Galician Parliament. I have to tell you that this Member feels sensitive about this matter, because I have known in my professional career some cases and had the opportunity to deal with their families and to know their distress. I also had the opportunity to see how the teacher does not know enough about this problem and does not know very well what to do in class when you see it in this situation. That's why the creation of this protocol would be positive. This protocol would have to be designed by multidisciplinary teams, and should include joint – I insist – actions on health and education. The basic goal would be to detect this disorder as early as possible, and to give it a proper response to the needs of students. The Socialist Group believes that we are faced with a problem with a certain school impact, which we need to give a response that involves the whole educational community. What would be the key, Mr. Farinas, to the Socialist Group's understanding? The key would be to know whether, in addition to the protocol, the board is prepared to put the human resources needed to address this diversity in educational centres. To have a protocol and not to have professionals who execute it would be useless, it would be pure smoke and propaganda, Mr. Fariñas. I remember even as in the past course we spoke in this Parliament about the experiences of a child named Gael, a child of Culleredo affected precisely by autistic spectrum disorder, whose mother had talked to me to ask for help for her son, since in the center where he was educated in Culleredo they did not count on the human resources needed to be able to care for Gael. The Socialist Group understands that it would soon be useful to create the TEA protocol if the Education Council later did not provide the necessary staff with the necessary facilities to care for these children. The education of the children of TEA is not guaranteed today in ordinary schools, because families are forced to choose between schooling the child, at risk for their health, or to care for health care, giving up education for that. There are a lot of the pathologies of children who need special care that the Government of Wales is not paying attention to the sensitivity that would be necessary, and it serves as a significant example what I have just said about children who have dyslexia. We also know that we have to make good use of the scarce resources that exist, but being focused on the people most in need seems unfair to us. Mr. Farinas, the central government has reduced the compensatory education games by 90% and you have not raised your voice. It is impossible to meet well diversity by suppressing PT or AL professional squares, and there are complaints from many educational communities at this beginning of 20152016. That's why we want to say here today, loud and clear: protocol TEA, Mr Farínas, yes, but whenever it comes with the necessary human resources. The Socialist Group, given the experience of the protocol on hyperactive children, has presented a very clear amendment of addition, and I hope you will look at it with affection. In that case, depending on that, we'd vote in favour or we'd see what we did. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u117	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Close shift to stand on the amendments, Mr. Farinas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Docasar, I've given you all the attention I'm capable of. You too like me, but you understand that even though I'm a man I'm able to do two things at the same time: I hear and write, because I want to answer with all consistency to the things that you tell me. So, I write to give you some answers. Is that clear? You don't take it wrong because it's not that you don't care; I do two things at the same time. And Mr. Ron was talking about fairness. You just touched the right key. The Greek education system can assume and assume to be the most equitable of all educational systems, at least so told OECD, which points only to Mexico as the only one above Galicia in equity; all the others behind it. And if we talk about real equity, and we refer to the leader in real equity, which is Finland, Galicia is only six tenths. It is the only Spanish community approved in equity, with the Basque Country, with the rest of the leading countries in real equity. Precisely inclusive education is what makes this Greek educational system that you know so much about, and therefore your professionals, and that doesn't like it because you try to get political profitability by continually talking about staff paintings here, which is the only thing they care about, to get political profitability, if not, they don't care. The evidence is well in this non-law proposal, which is a non-law proposition in a positive way, and you tried to argue, to find sufficient arguments to oppose it. It's the only thing they tried to do in their interventions. [[Murmurs.]] And then you introduce amendments. We're going to see, you've got the catalogue of jobs strictly approved in 2007 by the Government that wasn't from PP and yes from others. It's strictly up to you. And it's strictly necessary, in addition, because at that moment it was when the 10-percent replenishment rate was set. And at the sectoral tables and sectoral conferences, which are where these things are negotiated, of which you go when you rule the People's Party, it turns out that the Council advocated raising the rate to 50%. He did, yes, but with another government of the People's Party in Madrid. And it ran out with 466 squares convened for the year 2015, 100 percent of the replenishment rate was exhausted. The next year is already announced 100 percent, and it will wear out too, Mr. President. Galicia will have a quality, solidarity and quality education system that seeks quality and excellence, and among them will be the TEA, Mr. Pombo. I'm not gonna admit you asked to replace me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u119	Finish up, and pronounce yourself on the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u120	If you have another initiative – finished, Mr. President – present it, but it has nothing to do with ours, absolutely nothing to do with it. With regard to the other amendments, Mr Docasar, PT and AL, they are strictly charged. There's not one school that has no due attention, not one. Let it be shared... Don't see, Mrs. Pontón – which you seem to want to participate in the debate – about attention to diversity as a fixed picture. Don't even see it from the staff's point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u121	End, end, please. End it, Mr. Fariñas. Don't you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u122	We're not going to accept any amendments, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in collaboration with the Welsh naval sector to promote entry into the sector of the manufacture of components of the marine wind
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u124	This motion for a non-law was tabled with the following amendments: one from the Joint Parliamentary Group and one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u125	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado has to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I believe that all members of this House are already fully aware of the situation in which the naval sector of the Ferrol River was found in December 2011, when the change of government in Spain takes place. The legacy of the previous Central Government is a completely empty request wallet. The ineffectiveness of Navantia's leadership and Sepi's leadership, their ineffectiveness, led to the fact that in the second mandate of the Socialist Government, between 2008 and 2011, there had been no single new request at the railway yards of the Ferrol River; zero contracts between 2008 and 2011. That's the situation that we find ourselves in January 2012, when we take possession of a new government in Spain; a situation that must be remembered has its origins in the ship conversion of December 2004, executed by the Socialist Government and agreed with the unions Workers' and UGT Commissions. A conversion which led to the destruction of 1,400 jobs on the Ferrol River shipyards; 2,000 jobs destroyed in the auxiliary industry, and also to the maximum of 20% of the total turnover of the Navantia civil construction group. And lastly, and grave to the district of Ferrolterra, the extension of the productive veto on the ancient Astano until December 31, 2014. That was the inheritance received, a completely empty order wallet and yards that had lost their competitiveness in the international market, derived from this series of limitations imposed by the 2004 naval conversion; a conversion to which only the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party opposed. You know that we were especially critical with the leadership of Navantia, with the current leadership, when there were no contracts for the shipyards of the Ferrol River; how were critics also the mayors of the district of Ferrolterra and the whole of citizenship. Today, although the full occupation has not been achieved for the shipyards of the Ferrol River, the truth is that it is undeniable that we are in a radically different situation; a situation that began to change with the achievement of the Pemex fleet contract, which for a few was a lie, and therefore those same critical voices could not turn to the bottling act held last 28 August on the shipyards of the Ferrol River. The fleet contract of Pemex subsequently joined the BAM – ship of maritime action – commissioned by the Spanish Navy, the first military contract since the year 2008 entrusted to the shipyards of the Ferrol River. And then the engineering and equipment contract of an LHD for the Turkish Navy, or the construction of four oil tankers for the Ondimar Basque ship, which will be built between the shipyards of Andalusia and the shipyards of the Ferrol River. In December 2014, exactly nine months ago, Navantia signed a contract – Navantia and Windar Renewables – with Iberdrola for the construction of 29 sea windjackets on Ferrol River shipyards. It's about the Wikinger project, to build a marine park in the Baltic Sea. The contract represents a turnover of 90 million euros and requires 900,000 hours of workload for railway yards, which are giving occupation to half a thousand workers until July 2016, the date on which all structures must be delivered. Around 30 auxiliary companies collaborate with Navantia and with Windar Renewables in the development of this project. Thanks to the Wikinger project, thanks to the contract with Iberdrola, we saw how the port crane of Astano was moving again. It's been stopped for years, it's not working, and it's been working again. The Iberdrola contract, therefore, allowed the return to the activity of the Navantia shipyards in Fene, of the ancient Astano, once the productive veto that the Socialist Government of Rodríguez Zapatero had agreed on its day with the European Commission in the conversion of 2004, and which in practice put the closure of the Fenese shipyard until December 2014. In June 2015 – three months ago – there was a new contract, a second contract, also in marine wind wind, signed by Navantia and Windar Renewables in the wind current, to build on the Fene shipyards five floating macrostructures for Hywind Scotland, stateile subsidiary. This is an experimental program, to establish marine parks in deeper waters, which could subsequently have continuity with the manufacture of 45 more floating platforms; a contract in which Navantia would start in a preferred situation. This is an initial contract – that of the five floating platforms – that will report to the Fene shipyard 400,000 hours of workload and activity until February 2017. Beyond the immediate representation of these contracts, as a burden of work, we must also highlight what they represent in the qualitative aspect, the differential fact that these contracts involve, insofar as they allow the entry of public shipyards into the marine wind sector, into a pushing sector, into an emerging sector, which will be expanding for the next two decades. This is ultimately an opportunity to make the center of Fene a European referent in the manufacture of these equipments, an activity – I have to say in advance – perfectly compatible with the shipbuilding; and we want it, in addition, to be perfectly compatible with the shipbuilding. In short, we are attending a new stage – a contract drought log – that allows Navantia to walk in the flow of civil construction, the issue of military construction and the issue of diversification as well. Today we can say that, where there were zero contracts, in the last year, six new requests were reached, those six of the ones I just talked about, and that, therefore, today Navantia Fene Ferrol is more competitive than three years ago and has many more options for the future than those dates; a future that goes by consolidating the opportunities of these six new contracts and, in particular, of the offshore wind. Six contracts closed. Six contracts that are real, they like or don't like. We are, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, very aware that industrial diversification today is a reality in the naval sector of the Ferrolterra River, and that diversification is, of course, the way. And that that diversification and the marine wind is a foundation for the right and viable future. For all this, from the People's Group we present this initiative, in which we literally propose: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue its collaboration with the Welsh naval sector, and in particular with Navantia Fene Ferrol, to promote the entry into the sector of the manufacture of marine wind power components, with the firm support of the business initiatives that move in that direction, to promote the true industrial diversification of the district of Ferrolterra." In our opinion, defending the naval in the 21st century is to bet in a coordinated way on military construction, also to bet on civil construction – the construction that has banned us from the conversion of 2004, but these limitations no longer exist – and also to bet on the industrial diversification that embodies the marine wind, the sector in which, if we want, we can be a European reference. We urge the Galician Union to work with the hand of Navantia, to work with the SEPI, to move forward in that diversification, on the path that opens the marine wind for the next two decades. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u128	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. This year I couldn't miss. In all the election campaigns, the People's Party announces the definitive solution for the Italian public naval sector, and then violates all the commitments made during the campaign, as happened with the floating dam and how it happened with all the promises of Pemex. And I think it's a scandal that they're still bragging about what they've done with Pemex and the fleets. Two fleets that almost didn't create jobs in exchange for a gift from one of the best Greek shipyards. And then all the burden of work that Pemex was going to send, he stood on the road to unfulfilled promises, which is what the People's Party knows how to do. Now, this election year, of course, the People's Party again presents us as a solution for Navantia Fene the manufacture of jackets for the marine wind park Wikinger that promotes Iberdrola in Germany. At the end of the 1970s, the viacross of ship conversion began, a plan that carried out the INI. On June 5, 1981, the Government of the State, through a decree, granted incentives for redundancies and prejudices, Astano is the great victim of conversion. The second conversion between 1988 and 2003 was 4,000 and 12. 1,000 workers, respectively, the lost. Astano and Bazán went through the slimming of staff paintings, limitations and changes in activity. Since mid-eighties, when the Fene plant was the head of Turkish in the exchange of chromiums between the Government of the State and Brussels for entry into the European Union, 27,000 jobs were lost. Astano and Bazán worked one day more than 16,000 people. Now there are about 2,000 in Navantia, 300 in Fene and about 500 in auxiliary companies. The politics of the successive state governments, and the disinterest in defending the Welsh naval sector of the successive People's Party governments in the Union, have led to the current situation of the ferrolan naval. The naval situation is limited, due to its political design at the state level and consented by the Union, which has as its final end the dismantling of this activity in the Ferrol River. The city has seen not only the occupations of the naval, but the economic activity and the labor opportunities that were born in its future. It is therefore not political electoral strategy parameters that must prevail in this situation of extreme economic emergency, which drags thousands of neighbours and neighbours of Ferrolterra into the hands of misery and their children and children into emigration. It is not the debate of the political decisions that have been taken which can bring companies that open a horizon for the thousands of unemployed. It is time to encourage and support projects to move the end of poverty and unemployment to the largest number of homes. It is therefore time for us to combine strategies for defence of work that are still not destroyed with political decisions that open up doors for us to get new niches of employment. The economic future of the region goes through the bet decided by two strategic axes of action. Industrial diversification around energy, gas, agroforestry and seafood. The naval sector has to go beyond shipbuilding, reaching the manufacture of various equipment, engines, turbines or specialized machinery for the exploitation of crude oil and gas in the offshore industry. The construction of a new dam that serves to meet the demands of large shipping units by sea. The offshore industry must be one of the elements on which the recovery of economic activity in Fene's installations will turn. That's why his proposal doesn't come out of law today. You guys want to end the civil naval construction in Fene, so they want to dedicate the yard now to making shovels for windmills or whatever with such a, little by little, going to eliminate any possibility that Fene works on the ship. That's why my amendment goes so far as not to oppose work within Fene for the wind industry, but rather to maintain and create a real commitment for the shipbuilding to remain a fundamental activity of the shipyard in Fene. So we propose adding two points. One is to present, in the current session period, an industrial diversification plan for Ferrolterra, because it can't be the leap of the forest and in each election to present us a dome, as if it were the future. Present a serious industrial diversification plan for the district of Ferrolterra, and establish in the budgets for the year 2016 the necessary allocation for the construction of the floating deck. Only so can it be believed that your bet goes beyond turning the Fene yard into something else and maintaining the naval activity of this yard. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u130	Thank you, President. The truth is that the shock of the return to Parliament and to the virtual camera of that virtual reality defended by the People's Party, in which nothing coincides with reality. First of all, to clarify, I believe that other Members and I have not been on the fleet boot – by the way, made some pieces on the yards and within the time frame as the Socialist Party said, can even go to the Session Diary – because Navantia, the leadership of Navantia proposed by the People's Party, only invited the People's Party Member. This is what democracy and democracy have to do with the democratic plurality of this country by the People's Party. I don't know if I can talk or if you want Mr. Tellado... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u132	...to continue with this question. Not one or the other. Look, the reality of Mr Feijóo's Wind Plan is announced in this Parliament: 14,000 jobs and 6 billion euros of investment. This is what was announced by active and passive. The reality: zero euros. This is the reality of the Feijó Plan. Reality of conversion: technical breakdown, minutes of the meeting in Navantia, 2003, ruled Mr Aznar. One more year, one less year, it doesn't matter. We know, Mr. Tellado, we know your solvency. That same solvency that says the Iron Government poisons Ferrol's citizenship. That same solvency that characterizes you as meritorious, no doubt, in this fight for this new stage of the People's Party, but the fact is that the realities are what they are. Inherited, Mr. Tellado. Among other things, what is requested today by both the Navantia Business Committee and the Navantia leadership itself, by the Socialist Party and other forces, so that we can achieve the political will that Zapatero expressed on his day through Australian contracts, which would be a solution to lead the change and presentation of an industrial plan. These Australian contracts which gave rise to what had been hired in Ferrol – as you know, or should know – the most numerous contract in history, of greater weight for the shipyard industry, and which gave rise to Canberra and Adelaide, which is what you found, the Adelaide, doing on the railway yards – I suppose you would not see it – and that is the inheritance of Mr. Zapatero. Drought, Mr. Tellado. Drought is the one they manifest... If you had come not only to the events in which you had to take pictures, but to work, you could have come, as we did from the Ferrol Government 15 days ago, on a visit – one more, one of so many of our usual forms – of four hours, in which the company committee expresses itself, on the one hand, what the People's Party wants to convert the Fene yard, a plate and painting workshop of subcontracting, precarious jobs, and that we have become assistant to other companies, which we work for other companies, prepricing employment and also subcontracting external assistants from Ferrol County. That is the success of Mr Tellado, who aims to prevent jobs and not strengthen a single job. There's no need to say, Mr. Tellado, the losses of jobs that have occurred over the last five years. As an example, the initiatives and amendments presented by the Socialist Party, which assume what we have been asking for from the opposition during these wonderful five years of Mr. Feijóo, in which, of course, we are installed in the marmot. Look, what does the sector want? I'll talk to you about Navantia's address. The leadership of Navantia – proposed, Mr. Tellado, for you – says they have no occupation; says that the exit is Australian contracts; says that the exit is an industrial plan that you have promised for five years; says that it is the renewal of the template, a template that is aged and therefore it is necessary to incorporate the sector into training, personnel that can be trained again on these yards to be a competitive sector; says that the exit is the floating dam; says that the exit is to take advantage of the synergies that generates the expansion of the Panama channel; says that it is necessary the political will to want to take advantage of these synergies and that the Government of the State is wetting, and not the passivity that is being taken by the Government of Spain. That's what Navantia's address says, which also has its peculiarities to make us astonished, in view of what the French Government is doing, directly competing – as you know or should know – about the Spanish Government as well. Or as you know that I should do that same political action that is being done in other countries, because it ends up becoming competitive of the shipyards of Navantia the Brest yard, Mr Tellado. This is the reality, this is the reality that anyone who's on top of the job knows. But you're dedicated to poisoning yourself exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u134	...the information, it continues to be meritorious at the cost of immense irresponsibility. This is the People's Party of Virtuality, of the same virtuality that was charged to the neighbours and neighbours of Ferrol for a debugger that didn't work, in a huge scam. That's you, Mr. Tellado. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Sestayo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u136	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. For the Galego Nationalist Block only in a context where the projects in the field of shipbuilding were clearly defined, only in that context, would we support that complementaryly if they could devote the facilities to other types of realizations as can be the marine wind. Because look, Mr. Tellado, first it was Feijóo as a guarantee of the floating board. Remember that episode? Then they went to campaign the television shows of Galicia to explain what it was going to be... the mountains and piles that would be collected in the district of Ferrolterra with that deal with Pemex. And today it's the marine wind. And of course, this is already sounding a little bit like chapters of the same book, which is to close ship construction in Ferrol. So what do you really propose here? Tell us, how many real jobs are going to mean the marine wind? What it's like to change some facilities prepared for the construction of ships, and I remind you that you said exactly that the marine windshield right now was a pulling sector. Isn't it the construction of ships? Is it not a sector that is also driving right now, that you have let it fade and that we have been here, debate after debate, without reaching any kind of realization for the yards? You know it perfectly well, because the same thing that we have talks with the company committee, you'll probably have them too. So clearly, you can't change what shipbuilding is for a metal carpentry, because that's what you're proposing. We can see it as a complementary object, but we cannot bless the fact that the final closure of Astano is really taking place in Parliament. We just don't understand! Why do you look – no, no, how many are...? What jobs are we talking about? Mr. Tellado, do you remember all the promises made about Pemex? Do you remember how many ships were promised in parliamentary headquarters, in the press, and how many headlines Pemex gave? Do you know what the real situation is? Well, about to sell Barreras in Vigo, after all his technology had already been transferred to Pemex and sold in an absolutely ridiculous way for 5 million euros, Mr. Tellado. And that's to make two floats. How many jobs did those two floats give? Tell me really how many real jobs have been created. What's going on? May you – and allow me to tell you, they're playing with alms, they're playing with alms, and in Ferrol's district it's absolutely obvious. When you want to talk about the naval sector, when the advisor says whether you really think the solution for the naval sector is the marine wind, if you really think that this is the solution, we're serious. But for that we have to see what the industrial plan is going to be for the public yards of Ferrol, because at this moment everything we can see, everything we've been looking at, is really dramatic, and so have the workers themselves and workers. And you should know better than anyone like the labor situation of the county of Ferrolterra, as it is at this time. That's why, understanding that marine windpower can be a complement to the construction of ships, we're not going to vote in favour of an initiative that aims to smoke and smoke more about the naval sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u138	Good morning again. Mr. Tellado, I think you know me a little, and especially the People's Party, who knows how many places I am invited to, I attend; even to the most unsuspecting places, with little satisfaction on the part of the Galician Union. And I am afraid to tell you, and I hope you will correct, that, of course, the opposition Members, Mrs Sestayo and I, were not formally invited to that boot. He knows it perfectly, and he must apologize. Second question. Don't lie in the House, because you know that acts in Navantia are not open. It's more, you know perfectly – stop lying – that they have a scrupulous security. Even on multiple occasions public charges are left at the door because they can't come in, as you know. So I hope you correct. Secondly, Mr. Tellado, as you seem to be so concerned by the naval sector in the district of Ferrolterra, I think it would be good for you to pass on to the People's Party, to the Galician Union, that there had been in this plenary a monograph, a serious debate, about what happens in the naval sector of our country, that sector that has destroyed the People's Party since its rule, here in Galicia and also in Madrid. That same People's Party that continues to hold SEPI and Navantia's leadership positions, in front of those you would protest in Madrid with a banner. They're exactly the same. So I'll ask you here. I ask Mr. Conde and Mr. Feijóo to have a serious debate on the naval sector in this House. Third question. We are not going to vote in favour of this initiative, not just because it's cheating, simply because it's not going to be rigorous or rigorous. It'd be better if you took her off, it'd be a lot better. But above all, we are not going to vote for two questions. The first is the data you provide in your initiative, which are false. Look, Mr. Tellado, do you know how many people are busy in the jackets that are running in NavantiaFene? Do you know how many songs? Twenty from the main template, twenty. And you know how many songs in Nervion, Mr. Tellado? I do know. They don't reach 70. This is the reality. And look, Mr. Tellado, do you know how many posts are going to generate these substations that were advertised in a macro report, in a training day at the CIS I attend? You don't remember, but I don't think so; I daren't say, but I was invited and didn't attend; a long, very interesting day. Really, do you know how many they're going to create? Well, look, it's also exactly 70 workers, too. But do you know what the quality of these jobs is? The absolute precariousness. They're soldiers, Mr. Tellado. I don't know if you know what Navantia's potential is – I suppose you know, which are your technical departments, is the R & D+i, but it looks like you want to convert it exactly into a sheet and painting workshop. That's why we're going to vote against it. The exhibition part isn't real, it's lying about the data. Second question, Mr Tellado. Look, you're lying too, there's no Almunia anymore, there's nothing to hang them. And the truth is, it's been nine months, nine months in which there's no more veto on civil construction, and what we do is sheet and painting in NavantiaFene, we don't make ships. And we are not going to condition – as you intend on this initiative – the future of NavantiaFene to make a workshop of paper and painting. By the way, Mr. Tellado, we want NavantiaFene to do what she knows how to do. We also want you to explain to us – I'm going to have a chance for the four oil tankers that are running, the 4, to go to the Royal Port. Tell us why one of them, at least one of them, didn't stay in Ferrolterra with that shirt you put on to defend the naval sector, and the president of the absent board. Tell us why, because we want to know. I'm also given a warrant by the company committees of Navantia Fene and Ferrol. They've been waiting for the president of Galicia and Mr. Count to receive them for two years. Also, please, if you can, tell them they want to receive them. Another warrant, Mr. Tellado. We want the Industrial Plan for the Naval Sector, and then we'll see what we're dealing with. You here made a rude statement, I dare not do it, especially because the engineers tell me otherwise, and something must know of it. He said it is compatible to run the jackpots with developing the naval sector. I'm told you don't. However, if so, put technical reports on the table. The engineers and schools we have in Ferrolterra know something about this, I don't –licensed in fairly humble law. So your assertions – I insist they're pretty thick. We don't want an industrial desert like what you did in our neighborhood. We want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u139	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u140	...that the 4,500 workers who were fired return to work. And we want, indeed, what I told you, nothing more and nothing less than the Industrial Plan on the table and that stop smoking. It's not industrial diversification what they're doing, what they're giving that magnificent yard to the front door, where they already have a drawer, which is Project Gestan. That's the reality, Mr. Tellado. For those reasons and many others, and hoping for you to rectify it, we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Tellado. Give Mr. Tellado a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is it's surprising. Mrs. Díaz is always in possession of the truth, everyone lies to her, and the truth is, of course, we lied so much... Look, The Voice of Galicia, August 26, headline: The fleet boot on Friday will be an act open to the public. Mrs. Díaz, if you didn't go to the fleet boot, it was because you didn't want to. If it wasn't, it was because I didn't want to admit that that fleet you've been engaged for months and years in saying that it was a lie, it's a reality that means a billing of 175 million euros for rail yards and 1,150,000 hours of work load for our yards. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You bet on the industrial desert of Ferrolterra. They want to close the thermal power station of the bridges, they want to close the gas plant, they want to stop the sanitation of the Ferrol stream, they want to stop the train from the outside port, and now they're also against the marine windmill. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's your responsibility, now also with the Socialist Party's welcome. You're being treated yourself, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Martínez, your thesis is that the fleet became alone. And that's what I have to tell you, it's an insult to the workers who get up at 6:00 in the morning to work every day on the yards of the Ferrol River. You said, they want to end the civil construction in Fene. It's a lie, with us the civil construction has returned to the shipyards of the Ferrol River. Whoever vetoed civil construction in the Ferrol River was the Socialist Party on a December 2004 conversion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what all the hemerothecs say, as long as Mrs. Díaz and Mrs. Sestayo are now coming to deny reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] December 2004...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u143	Quiet, Mrs. Díaz, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u144	... with the welcome of Labour Commissions, Mrs. Díaz...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u145	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u146	...and UXT. So you're responsible for closing Astano and we're responsible for reopening Astano. They're asking for an industrial plan. I'm talking about amendments, they're asking for an industrial plan. Look, whenever the Socialist Party talked about an industrial plan, you know what they did? A conversion and send people home. So, do you know what the industrial plan needs the yards of the Ferrol River? Workload,workload,workload. And that's what we've been doing in recent years, and today there are six requests where the Socialist Government has left zero. I regret the privacy of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Left Galician Alternative with the Socialist Party. I'm sorry, but I understand, too, because they're forced to rule with them whenever it takes. Mrs. Sestayo, you speak in your amendment to intensify commercial action. To talk about intensifying commercial action from the Socialist Party is simply insulting the memory of the ferrolans. You've left zero contracts, there are six contracts today. You will therefore understand that we do not share your position with you. He must be very busy with Ferrol's parties, those of which he hasn't delivered his bills yet, those of such transparency that no one knows what's going on, but you don't know what happened in Ferrol's last year in the naval sector, which today there's a load of work, which if you haven't gone to the boot was because he didn't want and it was because he wants to keep denying the reality of the naval sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u148	Finally, we present a clear initiative, a concrete initiative, we ask the Union to engage in the bet on the marine wind, which is perfectly compatible with civil construction and military construction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u149	On the amendments, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u150	That's our bet. You're against everything because you're just against Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u151	Mr. Tellado, about the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u152	On the amendments, we reject those of the Joint Group and those of the Socialist Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, tell me, what happened? No, don't you want the word, Mrs. Sestayo? We're in the debate. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, he said he didn't accept it. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you don't have a word. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the word, Mrs. Sestayo, I call it by order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Proposal by G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Union of Galicia to the Government of Spain to request the Council of Europe that the agreement reached in relation to the rates of telecommunications companies should include the systematic cancellation of the collection of roaming fees to people bottled up in the borderish populations in the estimated area of network invasion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u154	This proposal was not submitted to any of them. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Blanco. Oh, sorry! There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u155	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Since this initiative deals with a cross-border issue, the first thing I want to do is to convey my solidarity and that of the Socialist Group to the situation that these days, not just these days, but for a long time, has been living on the borders of the European Union. People who, like us, are escaping from war, are fleeing from repression and who, of course, are not generating as many say a refugee crisis, but are being harmed by a crisis of the European Union's humanist values. And, as I told you, this non-legislative proposal that the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this House is about a topic which has been discussed in the European Union for years: roaming or roaming, which means raising bills that are paid for the use of mobile phones in another European country, and which take us and remind us that the European Union is far from being a single market in telecommunications. And given the high mobility within the European Union, it remains one of the issues affecting many citizens, not only tourists, but also entrepreneurs, students moving to other countries, displaced workers and citizens living in the internal populations, at the internal borders of the European Union, as is the case with this initiative. Since 2007, when the first Eurotariff was determined, and going through the initiatives of the socialist governments of Spain and Portugal from 2010 to 2013, with the proposal for a connected continent, there have been multiple initiatives aimed at eliminating roaming in European space. In fact, the European Parliament itself approved, in April 2014, on a proposal from the European Commission, its elimination, which should be planned at the end of this year if it were not for the position of some governments that, in the interests of telephony operators, had stopped this proposal, thereby unduly delaying the abolition of roaming. We are governed by, for example, those of the People's Party, who have been playing with themselves for the past few years, but not by the abolition of roaming when voting even in the European Parliament, when a camera is put in front of it, but not in order to put technical obstacles in those pre-European Commission meetings. Meetings that are held precisely to try to take that process forward and where the People's Party is dedicated to selling the speech that the telephone companies buy and transfer it to Brussels. Companies that, due to the high flow of tourists that receives our country, are more benefited than other countries of the European Union. The case is that finally, because of the pressures mainly received by consumer organisations, also by cross-border organisations, this June 30th, an agreement was adopted to abolish charges for mobile telephone use in roaming in different countries of the European Union within two years. We socialists make a positive assessment of this agreement, but we consider it to be insufficient, because it does not provide a short-term solution to the residents of cross-border populations. This has a special affection for our community since we share neighbouring with Portugal. So, for example, a neighbor or neighbour of Tui or Oimbra sees how at any time without moving from the territory a Portuguese operator enters their network, which will entail an increase in the cost of their monthly bill. This situation of affection for rights as a consumer of an unsolicited service would be affecting even now about 116,000 people living in the twenty-two municipalities bordering the provinces of Ourense and Pontevedra that are limited to Portugal. The Socialists today bring this non-law proposition to the House in the face of the lack of interest of this Government and of Madrid, which has been lost over the last few years many opportunities to make a clear and determined bet to find a solution to this problem. The last unappreciated opportunities were in the past Iberian Cumio held in Baiona last June, in which a deal could well be concluded that had led to the end of roaming as, for example, the governments of Belgium and Luxembourg did in April of this year. One more, without a doubt, shows the disillusionment and lack of interest of two governments, two conservative governments, one of the Rabbits Passes and Rajoys, which has no intention of strengthening the bonds that unite us with these two countries. A peak where many agreements could have been reached and of what is left the picture of only two depreciated presidents about to be replaced by their citizens in their respective elections that will take place in Portugal for the next month and in Spain predictably for the month of December. A meeting in which the star promise is again the same as in the previous summits, the same of every year: the electrification of the train of VigoO Porto. A promise that we know will be incomplete, since after the presentation of state budgets it will be delayed once again. There was also Mr. Feijóo there, though those days were more anxious to pick up a ticket to Madrid than to take him to the Government of Spain than to strengthen cooperation with Portugal. Something that's been common in recent years, where there's a total disillusionment in this matter. Thus, in 2015, with regard to the year 2008 – they are data reflecting this situation, this lack of government interest – the cross-border zone is the one that suffers the highest rate of increase in unemployment in Galicia, which is currently between 60% and 100% that increase throughout The Raia, and the same way that occurs in the northern region of Portugal, the second with the highest unemployment rate in the country of Luxembourg. There is no cooperation on employment, unemployment, and there is no collaboration on decent employment and quality employment, which makes thousands of Portuguese come to our country working in deplorable and precarious working conditions. The same condition that is having the policy of cross arms of this government in environmental matters, in the largest protected natural space of Europe, the reservation of the GerêsXurés cross-border biosphere which unites Galicia with Portugal and which accumulates the most serious effects in its management. Where, for example, there are no specific plans for restoring the areas affected by the fires of the past years. The same disillusionment as there is with the promotion of learning Portuguese, despite the unanimous approval and support of all groups of this House the Popular Legislative Initiative Paz Andrade. An important issue, not only from a linguistic point of view, not only from a cultural point of view, since it is essential to improve economic relations between the two countries. Between two countries with export levels that vary greatly depending on the border; the border with Galicia surrounds the export level of 14 %, while on the extreme they are reaching 43 %. A situation of lack of cooperation in which there are so many spectacular situations in an area as important as health care, such as that last year an oransan who had an accident 400 metres from the border with Portugal lived a 500-kilometre hatred of transfers in ambulances medicalized by five health centres in both countries and which took ten days to reach the Hospital Complex of Ourense. The Socialists consider that relations with Portugal are in an immobilist state, in a state that is not what historically was, since there has always been a good relationship with Portugal and where all countries and where all the presidents before Mr Feijóo had a high level of dialogue with the neighbouring country, because they considered brotherhood with Portugal not only important for the values of history and culture that we share, but also as an important strategic element. Today we have the opportunity to take a first step to change this situation. To get us to that stone balsa which so well described a great defender of the relations between Spain and Portugal as it was Saramago, to overcome the division and begin to break down that wall that is now separating us. That is why I call for support for this proposal, because we must also defend the rights of consumers, of the Greeks and of the Greeks living in the cross-border area, of flagged citizens who instead of being benefited by sharing neighbourliness with Portugal are being harmed by this situation, because they are seeing their rights watered down because of the irregular charges that Portuguese operators are making to them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we hear about this initiative, which would be precisely meant to put a solution to the neighbours of the cross-border areas in relation to roaming, almost entirely, and I am not going to enter into these considerations, I am going to stick to what is the initiative itself. If I tell you, man, I don't think we're any further. I think it's a contradiction to your speech since you were talking about that agreement, so we're closer to the disappearance of roaming. And he also left a headline a few months ago: "Spain, France and the United Kingdom ask to close the end of the roaming." Therefore, that the Government of Spain does not support or that it has had doubts because I think it is not quite true. As you said, you also told the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, in his presence at the Congress of Deputies last July, and the Council of the European Union and the Galician Parliament, at a meeting held on June 30, reached an important agreement, which assumes that citizens of the European Union who travel outside their country will not have to pay any charge for using the mobile from June 15, 2017, which leads us to state that after years of hard negotiations we are faced with the disappearance within the European Union of the recognised roaming. We also have to say that until that date a transitional regime is introduced, so operators will have to reduce charging and current mobile charges by 75% in April 2016. Although this measure has to be ratified by 28 member countries, we are faced with an important agreement, which is preceded by a joint work of the vast majority of states and political parties, and also a citizen demand, which was reflected in a European campaign with thousands of signatures gathered in the campaign known as "Cero roaming" driven by the Atlantic axis, the Iberian Network of Cross-border Institutions, the Spanish Consumer and User Organization, the Portuguese Consumer Protection Association and nine other countries. Therefore, an important agreement that – as you also said – forgets to put forward a solution for cross-border areas where it is common for many users of mobile telephone networks to have charges on bills for using roaming without knowing it, without need and without asking for it. Of course, there's also the possibility of disconnecting and putting it in manual mode, but it's no less certain that I assumed that in these areas the terminal would be out of coverage. So we are faced with an unfair and unjustified situation. Why do we present this amendment? Well, I think following the same line of work, even though you've wanted to do all this work in common over the last few years, between the Euroregion GaliciaNorth of Portugal and the collaboration between the two states, both Spain and Portugal. We believe that, in addition to the fact that it affects the two provinces of Greece – both Ourense and Pontevedra – it also affects an important and permeable strip of territory, because it is several districts and municipalities that are located on the border of Luxembourg. And that's why we understand that it would be important for the two governments of the states to work together to solve this problem, and why not? They agree to move ahead with the elimination of roaming in Spain and Portugal, as did Belgium and Luxembourg. The amendment is of substitution precisely because it also seems that, when referring only to the infected citizens, it would be limiting the field of action to the real solution of the problem, because there would be many people, such as workers, students, tourists or even relatives or friends of the bottled neighbors or residents, who would see their rights limited to accommodate that suppression of roaming. I'd also find some disadvantages with the competition rules and even some technical limitations. Therefore, recognizing the good intention and constructive spirit of the initiative, at least in the text and in the proposal, we present this amendment with a more ambitious text, which seeks that between the two states find a solution aimed at solving people's problems, but in which one takes account of the territory concerned, since anyone who is found in that area of influence, in that area – we can call – of conflict of the two networks and can receive a roaming charge, would be in the face of injustice and would also be prejudiced, be resident or not or be bottled up or not in those municipalities. We therefore tabled the amendment which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to address the Government of Spain to initiate joint action with the Government of Portugal for the abolition of the collection of roaming in cross-border areas through the Council of Europe, or also through bilateral action" – which may be between the two countries. You said, within your many criticisms, that we were further away. As I told you, I think we're not, that we're closer, and I think we can do this is, in the same line of work that has been done so far in terms of roaming, to continue working together; of course, I think we can do the best way, with a great deal of agreement between Spain and Portugal, and that can be pushed from here, from Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u158	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u159	Roaming, as we all know, affects a large part of the population of Galicia that lives in cross-border populations with Portugal and has a very negative impact on these neighbours and neighbours and on the local economy and the workers and workers of the border. The European Commission, as the Socialist Party has already stated, proposed the elimination and the European Parliament ratified it, confirming its disappearance by 15 December 2015. The position of the Member States, especially the Spanish State, has hindered Parliament's proposal, putting the interests of operators ahead of the interests of citizens, and intends to unduly delay the elimination of roaming by 2018. Consumer associations, as the spokesperson of the People's Party, both from Spain and Portugal, and the European Consumer Organization launched the "Cero roaming" campaign to demand precisely the elimination of roaming in December 2015. For organisations calling for the disappearance of roaming is a further example of how large companies impose their particular interests to the detriment of citizens' rights and against the decisions of the institutions they represent. Citizens are once again faced with pressure from business groups, who only look at the results of their business and the surrender to business interests by governments. The roaming in Galicia affects the whispers of Lower Mine, The County, Paradanta, The Lower Limia, Celanova, Monterrey and Viana, and very much affects the workers and workers who cross the border every day in one or another sense; Portuguese and Greek workers and workers who, as they have repeatedly denounced trade union organizations and Portuguese workers, suffer from wage discrimination and absolute precarious work in our country. But the People's Party has always denied these accusations, particularly those concerning the precarious recruitment of workers from Portugal on the train lines that call AVE. However, Vigo's PP denounced the presence of Portuguese workers in the work of humanization of Vigo's streets for the simple fact of being Portuguese. He doesn't say anything about his employment. I mean, the People's Party is going to be radical segregation: you can't hire Portuguese here because they're not Spanish, and they can hire Valladolid, but not Portugal, please, because PP is basically Spanish. In addition, discrimination depends on people's origin. They're not worried at all that the problem is that these outsiders are engaged in conditions of absolute precariousness, and that roaming therefore affects them in a very special way. Therefore, it is not possible to have a healthy and constructive debate with the People's Party, since its opinion varies according to its electoral and partisan interests and the interests of large companies, attempting to convince citizens with large campaigns of institutional advertising. Otherwise, for years now, the Union should have taken the initiative to claim an agreement with Portugal for the elimination of roaming in the border line. In 2010 – in November – the headline said: "Spain and Portugal will put an end to telephone roaming" – November 2010–. The People's Party wins the elections and completely abandons this dialogue and the intention to eliminate roaming, because the People's Party really wants to keep the benefits of telecommunications companies. You took the initiative to end roaming in 2015. You, supporting the telecommunications industries, extended that deadline to 2017, with the intention of not starting until 2018. Five years in which nothing was achieved, five years after the enrichment of the big companies in the sector at the cost of citizenship and five years of severe crisis where the Government of the Union and the Government of the State allowed this robbery to be followed. I suppose they won't support the initiative. You go on with your business. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u161	Thank you, President. Good day again. This initiative we are debating today clearly has two plans: a first general and global for reflection: what is Europe?, what are we doing?, what is this European construction?, which was marked by the spokesman who defended the initiative, who raises knives at the borders, and which, on the other hand, is able to allow what is happening with roaming. It is really a reflection of silence and importance that none of us have to be distant, because we are actually living this thing that was sometimes said as a slogan, but that as soon as we stop thinking about it is that Europe of merchants, that Europe of multinationals, and this case is a very clear example. It has already been explained here, which meant that the agreement on roaming, its replacement for 2015 and that we have moved on to 2017 was wet. And what's the interest behind it? Why is this situation under way when it is possible – and we are already debating it here – to deal with different European regulations which do allow the hiring of companies or staff with lower wages or contracts than those in the country in which they are going to work? On the other hand, for this there is slowness, we have to wait and even have that convolence on the part of states for this situation to be happening – let's look for a smooth word – scandalous. Why do telecommunications companies maintain this situation in the cross-border field? That's the fundamental question. We understand that it is simply to cash, because the Spanish State maintains this situation and does not exert pressure on the companies themselves – which has already been marked – as has happened in the area of Belgium and Luxembourg. Why don't you get that situation? That's why the background of this initiative, which is the most concrete one, which is considered in its operative part, we, from the Galician Nationalist Block, are going to support it, because we understand that it is clear and fair. But what's at the bottom, what Europe is building up and what interest is roaming, is just another focus, a Europe for the business of large multinationals, not of consumers and consumers, and ultimately of people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Galega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u163	Good morning to all and to all again. We are faced with an initiative that is actually about something with an expiry date, but it must be like that yogurt that has an expiry date but at which we have changed the cover and comes again another expiry date, which has been delayed over and over again for years only to keep the operators' interests intact above the interests and social rights of people; operators who, like Vodafone, for example, announce ERAs, who assume the dismissal of 1,300 people in the state and 200 in Galicia. That's why it doesn't shake the kneeling heel of the Government of the State, which seeks to attend the reports charged ad hoc by the operators themselves, where there are single and exclusively economic arguments to prevent the suppression of roaming. And it is lawful for a capitalist and competitive company to ask for that, but it must be responsibility and obligation for governments to meet and guarantee the rights of citizenship, of people. In April, it was announced that it would be in December 2015, and now, after this demonstration of kneeling shearing, operators managed to linger until the second half of 2017. But, of course, this is not for any satisfaction, it doesn't produce any joy, because it's deeply unfair. Since the capital has full freedom – with the approval of the states – in order to be able to move freely, we request from the Alternative Galician Left that this right be the one of the people and that, therefore, they cannot be set up economically-type traps, such as roaming, or administratively-type traps, such as what is being done right now at the borders of Europe – in the perimeter – where we are becoming genuine blood vessels, prisoners, preventing people from reaching Europe to meet a dignified life and have the right of asylum achieved. For us the right of people is inalienable, so we support the abolition of roaming as the right to be able to move freely throughout this European Union, which is no longer a social Europe, unfortunately, because, we cannot be mistaken, the European Commission does its calculations and, as it did in its own report, to try to deny the reports of the operators themselves, they have called on operators to make much more money by this initiative. The sad thing is for us is that this is the argument, the merely economicist, and we appeal to the argument about people's rights, about the rights of people when we travel, about which we are not trapped in that free movement, which right now the only thing that has it is the capital. So we've been supporting the suppression of roaming ever since.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the author group of the non-law proposition has the word donna Noela Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u165	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the support given to this initiative by AGE, the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block Galego. It didn't make it very clear to me, Mr Paradelo, if the People's Group is going to do what we're used to in this House, which is to support absolutely nothing that comes out of it. Anyway, I don't know if you say "ambitious amendment" to start conversations on a subject that, as I said earlier, has been going on in the European Union for six years, and when they've been ruling. No, of course we don't accept your amendment. You're still playing "yes but no", yes to the suppression of roaming, but not because there's technical problems, not because we're not going with Portugal. You're talking about the euro region, about the drive to the euro region. I don't know if it also refers to the descent by 90 %, 90 %, Mr Paradelo, 90 % of the budget this year 2015 compared to 2009. You had a great opportunity today to stand on the side of the citizens, and they did what they always do: to sit on the side of the big ones, to sit on this side of the big telephone companies, and the mixed group member said before: this was dealt with by the socialist governments, by that evil President Zapatero, who you are constantly mentioning, at an iberian summit which has served for something, not this year, of the year 2010, Mr Paradelo. And you go on like this. You are dealing with cross-border cooperation, you are seeing relations with the Luso country with a retrograde, high and simplistic vision, a relationship that is understood only under the prism of those who see that the only opportunity that comes to live next to a cross-border zone, next to Portugal, is to go buy towels to Portugal and eat cod. Because to me there is no other way, no other way to explain their disunity, their cowardice and their inability to manage this subject and to manage the relations between our country and Portugal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the management to be carried out by the Galician Union aimed at modifying the state and autonomous legislation to achieve the prevention and comprehensive protection against gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u167	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u168	You have the floor, Mrs. Adam, to formulate your proposal not of law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u169	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today I have this hand here the list of women who were murdered in the Spanish State this year, as you well know, several in Galicia. I am not going to read the names of all of them, because they would not actually come the ten minutes I have to show about this text, which simply means that we stop for a moment, think and value if we have to change the legislation, if we have to expand the legislation. And I want to start thinking that recognizing the fact should not be impossible to take steps forward, to start new paths, to recognize that it was not easy to reach the Vigilant Legislation, because violence against women has been silenced for years, decades and centuries. There were no words, words, categories, legal, social, philosophical and anthropological terms for descriptive power. And I would like to pay tribute in this House to all those women who worked, from the streets to the parliaments, to get these categories to exist, and who were recognized, for the first time in 1980, at the Second Conference on Women, in the UN, violence against women as a crime; so that it was subsequently collected in different treaties, reaching 1995, where the perspective of gender is gathered at the Beijing Conference itself; and reaching the Spanish State itself and that the comprehensive 2004 Law itself collects that perspective of gender, legislative, even though with its limitations – of which we will speak today – in the sphere is true, of the couple, or of the former couple, but taking a huge step in the legislation on violence against women. You just recognize it as being obliged to value it, as a commitment by all and try to improve it. Also, three years later, the Greek law set out new ways, alibisized new proposals, such as including psychological violence, economic violence, violence in the field of sexual harassment, trafficking in women and children. An extension of the concept of gender-based violence that legislates the Greek law, as well as a social perspective, including a new accreditation of the situation of violence against women that does not exist in the organic law, and which I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be very important for us to move the need for that expansion of the accreditation of the victim's situation. Let's just think about two data, because we have very limited time. From 2007 to 2015, through organic law itself, in the Spanish state, we're talking, according to last week's appearance at Congress, of more than a million women who filed a complaint. Are they conscious, true, of the dimension we're talking about? Only those who have filed a complaint, not those who are still afraid, who don't know, who are thinking, who are not even able to get close to the phone, to mark 016 or to approach a women's information center. But of those, about 55% -- they recently denounced women's associations -- 50 -- we just put the percentage, because in any case it's very high -- we're talking about those judgments being filed. Let's analyze and we'll have to see what's going on. In the German law, the secretary of equality was also present a week ago. We were told that over 2,600 women have reached the salary of freedom, also since 2006, more or less in the same period as I said before, until 2015. If we also stopped to analyze the data given to us by the secretary, in the last year 109 women had been sentenced to access the salary and not 200 women; their accreditation was in other fields, in the social field. So we really need to review the laws, because we're still children of domestic violence. We have a lot of references to the Istanbul Convention. The Istanbul Convention itself talks about prevention and combating violence against women and domestic violence, and we must eradicate that concept of domestic violence. Today we propose a debate, a debate, we propose a debate on a central theme by introducing a new category, the category of feminicide, because what is not named is true that does not exist, and many were the words – as I said – that we were introduced to modify an androcentric legislation, made from an optical that left out the perspective of women. Feminicide is a controversial category, yes, I won't deny it. There are women's movements, feminism, introducing the category, while many prestigious jurist women, researchers, are seeing their problem. We know that already in fourteen Latin American legislations has been included. We also know that reality is different and that we can't compare it, and therefore we can't compare the legislation itself in a completely mythical way. But this category force, clearly, as it did at the moment the category of gender, to say it's not a problem of whether we are born men or we are born women as something biological, but of a social construction to which we all come and all after a long process of learning, in families, in schools, in the streets, everywhere. And, therefore, the genre has become a category that has even transformed the scope of law, arriving, as we see, to be collected in our own regulation. That's why we propose today that it be included within existing legislation, including the category. And, in fact, he brought two concepts, both in favour and against. Patricia Laurenzo herself, who is a professor of criminal law, speaks of the analytical capacity of feminicide and the difficulty of including it in the legal order itself, but does not close that door, while we have other companions, such as Elena Laporta, who has a magnificent article in the book "Feminicide", where she explains how the category within this own legal order would allow us, for example, that the friend who accompanies another friend to collect the things of her home and sadly is murdered appears collected as a victim of gender violence, which does not happen today. That's why we also present not only the incorporation of feminicide, but the elaboration of a status of the victims of feminicide. Why? Because the victim's own status – and I'm not going to do any kind of political criticism or anything – develops a subjective scope for the general concept of victim that leaves out completely the definition of what is a victim of abuse, a victim of gender violence, who are the only victims – and I'm going to read, because it was published by experts in the field of psychology – that if they are ashamed to be victims, they don't want to say it and they don't want to recognize it because they consider it to be a vital failure. So I think it would be very important to develop that status as a victim of feminicide, and to change the accreditation, therefore, within that status. If it is not considered necessary to draw up this statute, it incorporates it into an amendment of the organic law itself: accreditation of a victim of gender-based violence, which I will now call a victim of feminicide, making that term myself. Because we need a new language, political and legal category, because, indeed, the laws have put in place mechanisms, and we have an amendment by the Socialist Party that demands, as we all ask, that the laws be complied with, that they be improved, that they be given budgetaryly, that the judges exist, that they professionalize with good training the workers and workers of the judges, that there really exist an education in values. But we want to go a little further and open a new debate, because feminicide means the death of women, the murder of women, by being women. And it may seem to us something that surprises us, but that's reality, and we need to be able to call it so we can transform it. Ladies and gentlemen - I have finished - I would like to appeal to all of you, to the commitment we have to the women who have fought consistently, who have fought from all areas so that we can enter the public domain, we can vote, we can be Members, we can participate in politics. That is why we have a political responsibility – and I would say even moral – that exceeds the political organizations we represent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u171	A commitment, a responsibility for the collective legacy that we can leave the women who will come to be a legacy of a somewhat more egalitarian society. Let's think, we debate whether feminicide as a category to transform rights and benefits to women who suffer from gender-based violence can help us right now. Women on the street are already using it. Let's stop the feminicide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u172	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u173	...for a life without gender violence, for all. And what I'm proposing today is that we all step together and think together and try to link a society without gender violence. I look forward to your arguments, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u174	Thank you very much. Intervention of the groups. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As Mrs Adán, the author of this initiative, said, what she is trying to put here today is to open a debate beyond the debate. And, of course, women and socialist men are not afraid of either words or debates, and therefore, Mrs. Adam, of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are ready to open this debate and talk about feminicide taking into account, as you yourself said, that there are opinions against, favour or nuances on the term and the consequences of the term. We are not afraid of debates or words and much less of changing the laws that we ourselves have made with the agreement, with collaboration and with the impulse not only of the whole political arc in some cases, not in others, but also of all feminist organizations. So we are totally willing and willing to open that debate and make changes to the two laws we have against gender violence. Because the truth is, we're watching a rally in the Machist murders and we can't stay here and the impassable governments before what happened this summer, which was an absolutely tragic summer for women. It was also tragic for society as a whole, because – we don't cheat – every time a woman dies at the hands of a man the whole society loses and the whole society becomes more unequal. And do we have to do more by modifying the laws to improve them? Of course. But what we can't do is that every time there's a maleistic murder, we constantly question what's written in the laws and whether these are valid. And I know you don't. Because the laws, so that they are valid, so that they can be useful and result, in addition to what they say, we must pursue their full compliance, we must equip them and we must improve them, as you intend on this initiative. That's why one of our amendments, amendments that are constructively motivated to support this initiative, has to do with precisely requiring the current governments to recover the budgets that were removed in the Budgets Act for the year 2006 to fight for equality between men and women, and to prevent, care and reintegration of women victims, their children and all the people in charge. To complete the specific trials of gender-based violence, as envisaged in the law, and to ensure immediate psychological care and for as long as professionals and professionals consider it necessary for all persons who are victims of gender-based violence, equally throughout the territory of Greece. Because we know, we know what is going on in many cases in rural areas and the differences that exist in terms of access to the means and resources of women living around rural areas or of women living in cities. And as we say that we are not afraid of words or debates or of changing laws, we also understand that in order to do this debate we must have all the organizations, all the feminist associations and all the organizations and agents involved in the fight against gender violence. Because what has been done, in fact, is to be analysed, both the autonomous law and the state law, the need to change the organic law must be transferred to the Government of the State and, once everything that is happening around these laws, it must be sought to improve them. What I already have some doubt, Mrs. Adam, is whether this is the appropriate political time to make the modification of these two laws. I say it by whom we rule in the Government of Spain and in the Government of the Union of Galicia. Because I doubt it a lot, and I hope I'm wrong, that the People's Party wants to get into the feminicide debate, I doubt it a lot. If so, if you were willing to enter this debate and have this debate without fear of words and without fear of the outcome of the words, then we would all be glad, all and all, but above all. But in any case, we are open to this debate and we hope that the contributions we make to your non-law proposal will be taken into account by yourself in any case. And be sure that since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will not be running away from the debate. What I have most doubt – I insist – is whether the People's Party is the valid interlocutor in this case and for the cutting actions it has made in all the budget in the field of gender violence, and not just that, but in all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u177	...at the disposal of victims of gender-based violence, victims of violence, whether it will be the valid interlocutor to make these reforms, or not, if any, wait until the times change in the Government of Madrid to make the change of the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u179	...at the state level. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u180	Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u181	Thank you, President. It's not a partisan theme, it's a social issue, it's a theme for all of us. And as a feminist today I feel very happy and very satisfied with a woman's intervention in this Parliament presenting this non-law proposal so that the term "feminicide" is taken into account. Because the murder of women needs a linguistic and political legal category in the state, because it's a global problem. The progress in equal rights between women and men who were conquered in the last decades of the 20th century seemed to be predicting a near future in which violence against women had diminished. But we find ourselves impassioned at a time in history when, far from fulfilling this Vatican, the women's body is treated as a territory of conquest and destruction. The ultimate expression of gender violence is murder when a woman is murdered for being a woman. I mean, for gender reasons, we're in a feminicide. It's a new term, but it's the most specific term and it's best to see a barbarism as old as the patriarchate, according to – as I quote the spokeswoman of the BNG – Graciela Atencio explains in her essay "Feminicide", and that it has already been incorporated into the Royal Spanish Academy dictionary in its 2014 edition and in the legislation of 13 states of South America, and that in the Kingdom of Spain it could have settled within a general law of gender violence, because it would allow to extend the scope of State action as to sanctions, protection and reparation for victims. Feminicide, ladies, happens without geographical distinction, as a result of a patriarchal and macho social order. Men in patriarchate do not kill alone, from the condition of lovers, boyfriends or husbands, moved by passion or jealousy; also parents, children, relatives, friends, companions, neighbors, clients, bosses. Not only are feminicides committed within a couple, but it is part of the patriarchal structure. And being male violence a structural problem of society and the main cause of death of women between 15 and 44 years of age worldwide, the main cause of death, between 15 and 44 years of age worldwide, should therefore be a priority issue in State policies. But to end the patriarchal social network and machist, the source and root of Machism, it is necessary to change the neoliberal system that governs the new era and that facilitates and multiplies it, supported by conservative governments and religious institutions. We support this GNP, but we also doubt – then I agree with the PSdeG spokesman – that it is done by the PP, the bulwark of neoliberal policies and the defender of the most Catholicism rancio. I don't think you – and I wish you were wrong, I'm telling you the truth – take advantage of this opportunity that is given to you in this Chamber today and act accordingly with your speech when you talk about women's defense and against male violence. Ladies and gentlemen, support this initiative, they have a moral duty to do so. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u182	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u183	Thank you, President. Mrs. Gallego, the truth is that I too have doubts about support because - I said the other day in Commission 5 - women and our rights are fighting, fighting – sorry – and fighting too. We are in mourning because, without making any noise, last week the People's Party withdrew, abolished, eliminated the right of girls between 16 and 18 with serious family problems to decide whether they want to be mothers or not. A measure which, in addition to what it is supposed to mean, represents an example of how the People's Party not only applies transversal measures for equality, but continues to implement measures that perpetuate and accentuate that inequality and discrimination. He also said that the other day, as it is very easy to publicly lament feminicides and, at the same time, to cut billions of euros in social services budgets – more than EUR 1 billion in Galicia since the entry of Feijóo and 75 million each year in the case of Mariano Rajoy's Government, and who had also – I repeat – assumed that the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women had warned, had been drawn from the ears of the People's Government both by measures of austerity, austerity, and precisely by that withdrawal from the right to abortion of minors, telling the United Nations that it represented a measure incompatible with international human rights standards. And despite that, they approved last week at the Spanish Senate. Thousands of women die precisely from unsafe abortions every year in the world, and that's why even it could be considered feminicide, and that's why even the term "feminicide" is indeed necessary, because it can be much broader. Feminicides should of course be included, classified as such in the Criminal Code, and that is why we are of course going to support this initiative. It is necessary to include as victims also of the violence of all these victims besides murdered women, children and other women and other persons who are familiar with these women or friends of these women and who are also murdered by the machoists. We hope, then, that in this minimal approach to considering feminicide, the whole of the groups, the People's Party should support this initiative if it manifests some kind of responsibility. They always ask for consensus, but the truth is, until now we have no evidence to prove it. Today they have a chance to do so, and yet we warn that despite the fact that we are faced with a good initiative, Mrs Adán, and we are going to support it, because we find it appropriate, unfortunately we do not know that the current laws of gender violence are not being complied with, and that according to the memory of the Prosecutor's office there are no other rules adopted after this year, such as the risk assessment protocols – in less than 72 hours they gave the report during this year – and despite the fact that there have been 792 murders officers in the past 12 years, a genuine genocide. They don't do this among other things because, besides, there are fewer and fewer means, for example in justice, because the files continue to abate in the courts, because there are still judges who have to be forced to reconcile criminal causes with the causes of gender violence. In 2014 there were 5,209 complaints in Galicia, 14 daily complaints, and despite that, we continue in this situation. It's data from the General Council of the Judiciary. Problems in justice and social services that, in addition, are accompanied, as has already been said, by a cut in equality programmes, but which are not only for these 2016 budgets; it is that since 2010 we have lost 46% of the equality programmes by Mr. Rajoy's Government. It's the official government data itself. And, therefore, of course – I would miss it more – we will support this initiative, but we demand a real commitment from the autonomous and central governments, not only sorrows and black and white laces. We want to live, and this is unfortunately incompatible with the promotion of inequality and violence that fosters the measures taken by the Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Group. Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Gallego and Mrs. Solla, the People's Party has always been next to the victims of gender violence, that is what has to be clear, and from there, Mrs. Adán, as you know, on October 31, 2014, the Parliament of Galicia came to pass on a proposal from this parliamentary group that I represent the establishment of a non-permanent Commission for the study of equality and the crimes of women, whose object of study – approved by all, ladies and gentlemen – was to make an assessment of the application of the various areas of competence, both of organic law and of the law of Galicia. This commission is working today. Its regular summons are being held for the appearances of so many government departments that they have already appeared, when it comes to a law of transversal application. And at this point, there are different groups, associations, social agents, who have been approved in the Commission's work plan. What is the object of this commission? You know this well: once the turn of appearances is over, the Commission will have to draw up the report of itself and the subsequent statement, which determines those areas in which we should focus or improve and which will allow better response to the victims who demand it. So I've just explained it is why we believe that until the work of this commission is finished, let us let it be closed, that the conclusions of this commission be analysed before assessing the possible modification of the Greek law and the state law. Therefore, from the parliamentary group I represent we ask about the work being done by this committee until the final dictation is drawn up. Mrs. Adam, in the explanatory statement of your initiative you also talk about the need to draw up the Status of the Feminicide Victim. Look, to point out that in April of this year, Law 4/2015, relating to the Victim's Statute, which you referred to, will enter into force in less than one month, will be introduced as a general catalogue of rights for all victims of crimes, with direct and specific provision to victims of gender violence, who will see their rights and their assistance and protection extended. In these enlargements we can talk about notification of resolution without the victim requesting it, vis-à-vis the minors who are around gender-based violence, individual evaluation of the victims to adopt the protections, to establish special protection needs. So there is a unanimous commitment, as is the commitment of all of us, of all society, to reject gender-based violence, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not waste much time either in terms of terms or in concepts that nothing will add to the improvement of protection. You speak at your "feminicide" exhibition. It's a legally controversial concept and it's essentially used in countries that have an inappropriate, incomplete legislation about gender-based violence, which is not the case with Spain. Let's leave the concept for the commission work, look for contributions from jurists who come to us to clarify the term. Sometimes we don't agree because we talk about controversial concepts that are legally unclear. Apart from that, I think that society today on the street, day by day, to the victim of gender-based violence doesn't care much about what we call that problem so fat that they're suffering; it doesn't matter what the administrations or politicians give you to call the problem they're suffering. We're talking about concepts like "feminicide", "macho violence," "generic violence," what else? We have to solve this problem and there is no death anymore. I believe that the parliamentary group I represent must fight for further progress, not stop in concepts. We must continue to make progress in preventing, raising awareness, training, improving institutional responses, caring for children, improving the situation of these women. The concept of "feminicide" was not only about physical violence or comes about, but also about paying attention to its health, against its morals. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to these terms that come to include, they do not contribute anything other than what is not collected as a term of "generous violence" both in state law and in autonomic law. It's not about names, it's about more effective measures. At the sectoral conference that took place in April concerning what autonomous communities were asked to evaluate, the organic law, after ten years of its vigilance, is curious that no autonomous community at that time has requested an amendment, because today these two laws, especially the state, are still a reference, especially at the international level. So let's wait until the end of the Commission's work. Let's wait for its dictates. Meanwhile, you also ask that the victim's accreditation be extended to state law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u186	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u187	...Today this is literally, as you expose in your exhibition, covered by our law. Galicia has wider requirements than the state and other autonomous communities. Therefore, we ask for caution. So the time has come, and with the results of the Commission's dictatorship, it will proceed or not open a period of reflection of changes or improvements to organic law, in which we will all have something to say. The People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support this for these reasons that I have just outlined this initiative. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u188	The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u189	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Díaz, it doesn't matter whether words have meaning and the limits of our world are the limits of our language, and while violence was domestic there was no legal capacity to intervene in this area, just like when we jumped to what it was gender violence. Words are not the same. I should have explained quite badly, because every concept has a load, not only semantics, but also the pragmatics that will then be taken in that respect. We all agree that we need to improve your data, more training and more budgets. I believe that we have been debating in the Committee on Study and Equality very much; perhaps not enough in the plenary. It may not be enough just to be in that committee, because Parliament's plenary must also talk about violence against women, it must also talk about feminicide in Parliament's plenary. Indeed, because it is not only that we are working and studying in that commission and detecting all the problems as Mrs. Gallego actually said or said the spokeswoman of the Alternative Left Galicia of her put into operation of the laws, that we do not comply, but that we want to go one step further, because it is also obliged of this camera, this full legislator, it will also be ours. Let us consider, ladies and gentlemen, the plenary sessions of Parliament, how many times do we deal with problems like the naval, like the death of the Berberect in the Arousa River, like fires? How many times do we treat the fires in this plenary where we've been legislating? How many times does gender violence occur? Much less. And then it wasn't, is it not often a state problem, of general interest, why do we debate it less often? We'll bring this camera every time we need the subject of feminicide because the debate is about to take place, it's going to be on the street. We can decide that the street is moving our resistance or we can accompany the street, think and legislate from the vanguard to try to transform this situation, because the words do matter, because really working on prevention would be working on education. And education in equality is not the same if it is considered that violence against women is a problem of jealousy, a problem in the domestic sphere, which we understand women are educated in submission and gender roles that perpetuate a situation of asymmetry in the distribution of power; in the distribution of power not understood as access to power, but in the full realization of their lives as men and women. That's why the words matter and to us the word "feminicide" matters. Understanding the spirit of asking for budgets, really interferes with what is intended to be opened in this proposal not of law. We'd rather keep it as it's written. We apologize for the material error in transcription when using the term "femicide", which is another of the variables,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u190	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u191	...that the studies decided that it was feminicide, not feminicide – I will not enter that linguistic debate. But I would ask you to vote as it is divided into two parts: the one referring to the request of the State and the one referring to the request of the Council of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u192	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the extension of the grant of EnceElnosa in the Pontevedra River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u193	Amendments to this proposal have been tabled by the Socialist Group and the People's Group. [[(G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her representative Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal.Additional amendment.A new paragraph must be added to the resolution of the proposal: "The Welsh Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to undertake, in the exercise of its environmental competences, the studies and work necessary to find viable alternatives to enable the relocation of the activity of the Ence company in the territory of the province of Pontevedra, out of the river and, if possible, within the district of Pontevedra."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. Galician people, through their spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submit to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to request that, in the context of the request for an extension of the concessions submitted by the General Administration of the State in compliance with the law and the rules of the coasts, if the most required environmental and legal criteria are used in the issue of its determining environmental report; report that it will be strictly rejected by objective technical criteria."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u194	To make it speak to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u195	Good morning. It's been over 50 years since the installation of Cence in the Pontevedra River. Last Saturday on 12th, exactly fifty-two years of the inauguration of Cence by the dictator, by Franco. And to talk about Cellulosas, about Ence is to talk about the Frankish dictatorship and talk about the role that the Spanish oligarchy at that time decided to give to the Greek mountains: to make them a huge eucalyptal. Decision at that time that everything indicates that the People's Party intends to continue to play a role in Galicia as a colony, where the enclave industries are the industrialization solution that they consider to be achievable to our country. Decisions against the interests of the peasants and the peasants were therefore severely repressed, including deaths; the invasion of eucalyptus against the interests of the peasants and peasants by means of repression in order to achieve it. Despite this opposition and resistance from neighbors and neighbors, implementation has been consumed and this has resulted in the deprivation of fishing resources, marine resources and territory. We have had over five decades of continuous action on behalf of the Spanish Government and the Greek Government towards the pastry; more than five decades of pollution, air pollution and river pollution; more than five decades of conditioning of the Galician forest sector; more than five decades of conditioning of the territory, and more than five decades of excessive and free consumption of water. It consumes more than 13 million cubic meters a year, more than all the municipalities in the river. Five decades of environmental damage, economic damage and social damage. There is therefore no justification for the stay of EnceElnosa in the river Pontevedra, except for the business, the enrichment of the company. And the People's Party has made every effort, has put all the administrative and legislative machinery of its governments at the service of the stay of EnceElnosa in the Pontevedra River. It's been many years, according to the company's interests, trying to consolidate the industrial complex of Ence in Lourizán, it's been trying everything. And in this objective, in 2013, it made the amendment of the Back Law to allow the extension of the concession beyond 2018, the amendment of the Back Law so that it would not be affected by the temporary limit of thirty years that the 1988 Back Law established for the company. And the last episodes were the publication in October 2014 of the Coast Law Development Regulation, in July 2015 of the Coast Resolution on the situation of the current concession and, finally, the scandalous ratification by the Coastal Provincial Service in August 2015 of the validity of the concession. A clearly political decision that further upsets the football field installed in Lourizán and not the company. A scandal that can only have the political decision rating, because seeing who is able to understand that a football field is not ratified by its grant and whether it is ratified by the Contaminant Complex of Ence. All these legislative changes made by the People's Party allow the Ence to request the extension of the concession to try to ensure its permanence in the Pontevedra River. An extension that would be granted would mean a covert privatization of the public domain of all Welsh and Welsh for many years, all for the benefit of a polluting private entity that is preventing the economic and social and urban growth of Pontevedra district. If this extension were granted, it would mean that Ence would remain in Pontevedra for another 15 years, which, of course, the Nationalist Block Galego considered a real fraud. And that is why we are presenting here today this non-legislative proposal, so that the Greek Parliament will urge the Government of the Union, first, to exercise its exclusive powers in spatial management, which has the exclusive competences that Galicia has, and to initiate the development of the land management instruments leading to the recovery and regeneration of the space occupied by EnceElnosa. That once and for all proceed to the annulment of Elnosa's integrated environmental authorisation, to the annulment that the former Industry Adviser and the President of the Galician Union have undertaken to do. The former Industry Counsellor said that the closure of Elnosa was non-negotiable and irretrorodable and the President of the Union said that it was a demonstration of the fulfilment of the German Government and of it with Pontevedra itself. And also in this non-law proposal, what we ask is that the Spanish Government should insist that it refrain from acting at a time of discount, that it refrain from doing what it is doing with the Constitutional Court, that it should act at a time of discount, that there should be absolutely no action aimed at granting the extension to EnceElnosa in the Pontevedra River. And we make this request – the first – to demand that the Union exercise its exclusive powers in land management because Galicia has exclusive powers in land management. We ask the Government of Galicia not to allow it to be the Spanish Government and the interests of the company that decide, we ask that the exclusive powers be exercised in the management of the territory recognized in Articles 148 and 149 of the Constitution, that, which I knew and that the Nationalist Block are not deluded, they are vigilant, and therefore these articles entrust it and allow it to be Galicia who has those powers – the competences set out in Article 27 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia – and which I and the Nationalist Block of Galicia know are not derogate, are in full force, and they entrust these exclusive powers to Galicia, the exclusive powers ratified by judgments of the Constitutional Court, such as Judgment 6197 of that Constitutional Court. We are therefore faced with political decisions. There are legal instruments to not grant the extension to Cence and for that time limit of 2018 to become a reality, what is lacking is that the People's Party wants to exercise the Government of Galicia and does not preach to the interests of the pastry. Because you see, the Galician Board has finally developed and approved, in February 2011, the Land Management Guidelines and the integrated territorial plan called the Galician Coastal Management Plan. And in those laws – and I'm going to read literally – in the Territorial Management Guidelines, it says, "A management of uses is required, moving to other facilities and activities that do not need to be located near the sea and which currently mean a high cost of opportunity. This is the case of many industrial activities, the most important of which is the large cellous plant, which limits Pontevedra's connection to the southern margin of its creek." I mean, the vigorous legislation we have in Galicia clearly refers to the need to remove Ence Elnosa from the location where you are...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u196	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u197	...legislation adopted and voted by the People's Party and, as I know, just as the exclusive powers of land management are in force, are perfectly in force, with which, there is absolutely no excuse – we believe in the Galego Nationalist Block – so that we cannot vote in favour of this initiative that we present here today, which, I insist, is to urge the Greek Government to exercise its exclusive powers in land management, to proceed once and for all to cancel Elnosa's integrated environmental authorization and to ask the Government of the State to abstain from – I insist – to act at a time of discount, to refrain from granting it the extension of Ence in the river. Waiting for support for this initiative, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u198	Thank you very much. Intervention of the groups. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u199	Thank you, President. Good morning, it's almost late. I am sure that, given that Ence is in the seams of Lourizán since 1959, it must be one of the most addressed issues in this Parliament, and I am also convinced that at all this time one of the best results of all the initiatives presented in this House was what was achieved in the past legislation: a unanimous transaction that agreed all parliamentary groups in this Parliament urging the Ence and the Union to resume mutual discussions to find a new location for the company, environmentally friendly and out of Pontevedra before 2018, to encourage new business projects and thus to close the productive cycle of paper in Galicia, to prevent any type of complementary installation that would consolidate the Ence where it is now and to modify the area in the Coastal Management Plan. The extension of the award to Cence now ends in 2018. When that transaction was agreed on in the past legislation it was already known that it ended in 2018, in Galicia it was already ruling the People's Party – you governed it – President Feijóo was already President of Galicia, there was already a crisis, we all knew, illustrated in this Parliament by Mr. Tellado – who is now not – that the crisis was an invention of Mr. Zapatero and that it was the responsibility of the Socialist Government at that time, and we all knew that there were jobs and workers who existed also at that time when the transaction was reached. But still, all the parliamentary groups in this House decided at that time unanimously to adopt that transaction of the transfer from Ence to another place, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group believed at that time – and that is why the transaction was reached – that President Feijóo would seek a better location for the company, because he was the President of the Union and because when a government has an obligation to respect parliamentary agreements – if he actually believes in democracy – and to solve the problems, as it was and is the transfer of Ence. But it wasn't, the People's Party decided to change its skin and forgot the transaction in those municipal elections prior to the latter that we just had this year. The People's Party in Madrid, with Rajoy – who is Pontevedres – took out the Law of May 29, 2013, and thus can allow the previous determinant, non-binding and non-preceptive report of the environmental organ of the board of Galicia to stay in Ence at most – with this law of the year 201 – in 2093. In addition, according to the employees of Ence, there are no official studies that have been carried out in the Galician Union – i.e. the People's Party; i.e. the Government of President Feijóo – about the transfer of Ence; the only studies about the transfer were made by the company; junta did not move a single technician to make a report on the transfer. Furthermore, in July of this year, the State Government of President Rajoy – Pontevedrés – has adopted a resolution, with the Provincial Service of Costas, saying that, in its view, the environmental conditions of the concession are met and that it will therefore be the Autonomous Community which must ensure whether or not these conditions are met. We are in 2015, the concession ends in 2018, and a Rajoy law allows to continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u200	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u201	...–Thank you, President– until 2093. The councillor is missing – here disappeared and disappeared on the topic of Ence – and Feijóo and his government expect we don't know very well what; they don't rule and play very pettyly with the bread of the workers of Ence. We tabled this amendment. We will vote in favour of the non-law proposal, but we hope that our amendment will be accepted, which goes along the lines of the transaction of its moment, so that we urge the Board to carry out those studies necessary to find viable alternatives to the Ence that allow the relocation of the company's activity outside the river Pontevedra, from the territory of the province of Pontevedra, and, if possible, within the territory of Pontevedra. Finally, we ask for something that is not unusual, we ask President Feijóo, after almost six years as President of the Union, to respect the agreements adopted in this Parliament, to have a word and to govern it once and for all our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Moreira Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u203	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We look forward to speaking with the branch of the BNG initiative, which is, frankly, a recompilation of barbarities. It says that the People's Party has been in agreement for many years with the interests of Ence and Elnosa or that the People's Party must clarify what it is negotiating with the pastry company to give it a gift that can be valued in more than one billion euros... Barbaries, pearls in blocks, gentlemen, which do not surprise me at all because I've been listening to them for years, many years, but at the same time I've been saying it for many years – it is also necessary to say – without understanding why the Pontevedra Council of the Galician Nationalist Block, is granting you a tax treatment that is quite favourable to this company, since it pays you 50% of what, with the law in hand, you could charge you for economic activities. We see here who's doing negotiations with the company. Of course, the government of Pontevedra is not very belligerent on this tax issue with the company Ence. In any case, the BNG proposal proposes to urge the Government – point 1 – to issue an unfavorable report on the extension of EnceElnosa; that is, they want to impose in advance to an administration the character and content of an environmental report which is supposed to be objective, made by technicians and that it should be limited, according to the law and the rules of the Coast Law, to determine the effects and to lay down the conditions which are compatible with the content of the integrated environmental authorisation. This, Your Honor, is as much as telling the Administration that he doesn't give a license because he doesn't like it. This can't be done, you have to be respectful of the laws. They even ask that they issue an unfavorable report to a request that has not even been made, because it does not show us that Elnosa has requested the extension of the granting of the Back Law. Secondly, they ask – I suppose by decree – to cancel an authorization; so suddenly, they cancel an authorization, without justifying why. Thirdly, they ask the Government of the State to paralyze an administrative procedure to which any citizen is entitled, to paralyze a procedure because it does. In other words, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG comes here to the Galician Parliament to make a proposal – which requires us to support – to urge the Greek Government to prejudge, to urge the Greek Government, in turn, to urge the Government of the State to which it also prevails. Your Honor, this is quite new in a parliamentary chamber. I don't know what kind of government, what kind of state you want for Galicia, but political positioning isn't enough to give or remove a public concession. There are rules, there are regulations, and licenses are regulated, authorizations are regulated, and they don't give or take off because yes; that may be in the BNG imaginary, but of course not in the People's Party, Your Honor. And this refers to two companies that, curiously, have two integrated environmental authorisations. [[Applause]] And I wonder, but who gave these authorizations to these companies so polluting and so harmful to all of Galicia? And we're going to look and it turns out that he gave them the Galician board in 2008; that is, ruled by the PSOE and the BNG, in which, by the way, I think I remember that you had a political position – no matter what the government of the Galician board –. These two parties, BNG and PSOE, were the ones that ruled in 2008 that Ence Elnosa could continue to operate in Lourizán because he complied with environmental legislation. And now, seven years later, you come to say here that these companies pollute a lot. When were they lying to us, Your Honor, then or now? We don't understand, honestly. BNG therefore requests that the Board issue unfavorable environmental reports, which means that the BNG comes to ask the Board to disallow the BNG when it was ruling the board of Galicia. I want to understand that this is what they mean. Kafkiano, Your Honor, Kafkiano! We need them to clear it up, because no one understands them. What are we talking about? We're talking about a situation in which there are plenty of jobs at stake. We don't like where the company is, but you'll understand that in Pontevedra, with 26% unemployment, leading the unemployment ranking according to the Galician Population Survey, it's not the time to make that decision. Citizens are waiting for politicians to be responsible, and I think being responsible now implies, at least in the conception that I have about the responsibility of a politician, that at a time when a city leads unemployment with 26% we must not make a decision that further aggravates this situation, especially in a municipality where its mayor has not generated an industrial project in sixteen years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u204	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u205	...alternative that could give accompaniment to all these workers. That, too, must be said, if you want to follow, you will have to create jobs and quality jobs. You'll have to apply the maximum environmental improvements, and in that sense goes our amendment, which is also time for Ence to start returning to Pontevedra as much as Pontevedra has given him over all these years. [[Murmurs.]] So, Your Honor, was there a time for your transfer? There was. Was there a game that tried to transfer it? There was the People's Party. Was there any government that closed an agreement with Elnosa for relocation? Yes, the People's Party. Is it possible to make a transfer today? No, honestly not. We're talking about whether it's going to continue where it is, or it's going to close. That of the transfer of activity is an impossible fallacy, and you're aware that it's not the time; either it goes on, or it closes. And there are mayors, like a mayor of the Socialist Party of Navia, who would be delighted – and so he said – to receive this company; and he says that the controversy in his county is like getting more people to work in Ence, and not fire workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u207	Thank you, President. We've just heard, of course, a harness that the management of Ence would not defend the stay of Ence in the river. To me it's either black or white, and it doesn't have any kind of intermediate color. Either close it or it stays because I say it, because reasons didn't give any, eh! Because I say it, either close or stay. That's the whole argumentary of the People's Party. Of course, it doesn't matter to the People's Party that the water pollution of our rivers, it's obvious. We see in all our rivers pollution problems that alarmed and scandalized the European Commission, that came to check its state, and the People's Party denies the greatest. Now it turns out that Pontevedra's laugh has no contamination. The sailor emigrates, it's not that he's born for pollution and he can't fish, he must emigrate! You don't value all the economic activity you have to stop doing in the stream of Pontevedra because of Ence. They don't value all the deterioration of the public use that refers to Ence. And so – as has already been said here – you won't fulfill your commitment to the people of Greece and the city and the province of Pontevedra. It is true, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said, that the amendment to Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure was to favour the stay of EnceElnosa in the Pontevedra River, for now he will only have to make the report of the Union, and he will have to report on the effects and set the conditions, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said. But everything the People's Party says is a big lie. Greenpeace claims that in Galicia EnceElnosa are the two main pollution points for its mercury emissions, organochlorates and other pollutants to the Pontevedra stream, which are very dangerous substances for human health. Of course, the People's Party doesn't care about human health either, as we were able to check yesterday at the Vigo Hospital debate. The end of Ence's stay is being claimed since its installation in the Pontevedra River in 1957. In the 2009 elections, the People's Party assured that it would restore to the enjoyment of the citizens the Pontevedra River; it included in its programme environmental regeneration and guarantee the transfer of Ence within Pontevedra County, always consulting with citizens and with full transparency. In 2010, he ensured that he valued the company's willingness to look for an alternative out of the river. In 2012, the Environment Adviser – Agustín Hernández – assured this Parliament that Ence should abandon its placement in 2018. In the 2012 election program, the People's Party stated that it holds the bet for Ence to abandon its current placement, considering it to be irrevocable as a result of its activity in the vicinity of Pontevedra County. From 2009 to 2012, the People's Party claimed that Ence polluted the river, that Ence had to get out of the river and that this issue was not questionable. Now it seems that everything changed, and in 2015, Mr. Jacobo Moreira – who just intervened now and was mayor to Pontevedra, and, of course, with these ideas he obtained the result he obtained – defended the stay of Ence in the current location, justifying that the stage changed and that they only fit – what he just said now – two options: either close, or continue in the respite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u208	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u209	I'm gonna finish it, yeah. The stage has changed because the PP has prepared a new Back Law that opens the doors to the extension of the concession. The high rate of unemployment in Pontevedra is the result of the labour, tax, industrial and social policies of the People's Party. In addition, the People's Party does not value lost or impossible jobs for the current state of pollution of the Pontevedra River. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, those who lie are you. They lied in 2009, in 2010, in 2011 and 2012, promising that Ence had to get out of the river, and now, in 2015, they say that's not going to go ahead. You're lying to the people, it's the only thing they can do. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u211	Well, I'm going to follow Mr. Feijóo's line of appearance in the morning, of homage to truth and not manipulation, and I'm going to say that in the People's Party cases of corruption are isolated cases, it's not structural, and that the People's Party is neither heir nor successor to the politics of frankism. That's my tribute to the truths Mr. President Feijóo said today. And I'm just going to tell you something that I think is key to this case, but it's just a very small part, the tip of the iceberg. There's a director of Ence who's married to a former Deputy Director General of Environmental Quality, current Deputy Director of Environmental Coordination – quite by chance! – and this lady's sister is Chief or Industrial Manager of Elnosa. This lady, who was the environmental quality deputy director and now the environmental coordinator, entered into the Galician board by the hand of an environmental adviser from the Galician board who, when he had just been an environmental adviser from the Galician board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board of directors of the board, and who, in turn, assembled a company, with privileged information, known as Natutecnia, which, by chance obtains succulent contracts with the People's Party on the basis of doing business with the fire. A very small detail. We could also talk about Juan Ignacio Barrera, who was former president of the Senate and was eventually rewarded for his work with a post in Ence, etc. So when we talk about breaking the chubby knot, we're gonna break it. I could list – and I wouldn't give myself time – the number of legislative operations and regulations of the People's Party in recent years to ensure the existence of the Ence. I wouldn't give myself time. I went to the back-law debate in Galicia, where the People's Party defended the possibility of perpetuating companies like Cence on the coast and de facto privatizing the coast of the Spanish State; where he gave him the last word of the decision to leave Ence or the bottle of Pontevedra's stream to the Government of Madrid. And now they themselves, who have supported this law, say that we, of course, do not have the last word. They take responsibility and say it's Madrid. That's an incredible cynicism! But it is more, after passing that law, that a regulation is being passed, because the regulation introduces a key aspect, which is to say that the environmental report – which is mandatory but non-binding, means that it will decide Madrid – has to be perfectly compatible with the environmental authorisation that is already approved. I mean, they actually approve of it. So, what are you telling me? The People's Party will help Ence's stay in the creek, by the civilian or by the criminal. Mr. Moreira, you say you can't move Ence because Pontevedra is the leader of unemployment in the country. And being Once all these years, how is it possible that Pontevedra is a leader of unemployment? How is that possible? From the data I have, even the Ence itself has reduced the number of jobs. Won't you have anything to do with Pontevedra leading the country's unemployment with the situation of Ence in the river, Mr. Moreira? Ah, it has nothing to do with it, no! There's no relationship, right? At least, the stay of Ence in the creek did not guarantee that there are better employment ratios in Pontevedra than in the rest of the country. So the job justification for Ence to stay in the creek doesn't stand. On the contrary, Ence destroys more jobs, in the Pontevedra River and across the country, than it creates, because it is an industry – as the enclave's voicer has said well, and enclave industries are looking for cheap raw materials, so we are a great eucalyptal to do the work of Ence in cheap raw material, cheap labour, and above all environmental permissiveness and the ability of administrations to business. Those are the characteristics of the enclave industry, and here they are all. So, to break the churidian knot, the only thing you can do, to throw the Ring out of the river and start developing another productive economic model that generates jobs, and quality employment, is to throw them to you in December of the Congress of Deputies and of power. Nothing else! It'll be effective!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u212	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u213	The truth is that it is very sad – not surprising but sad – to see how the People's Party continues to maintain the decision of frankism to help Galicia play a role in which it has nothing to say, in which Madrid decides. Frankism has decided that Galicia has become a great eucalyptal at the service of a company, and it turns out that the People's Party has been acting for years to continue to do so. Then it's very sad! Look at one thing, Mr. Moreira, the company was sold – because it was public – and then bought in 2001 at a balance price, because it had an expiry date. And the expiry date was 2018. And it turns out that what was sold at the balance price because the company had an expiry date, you now, in an exercise like that of multiplying pancakes and fish, want to allow it to become a multi-millionaire business. That's why we say there that you missed a great opportunity, when you left the gallery, to explain that you're winning the People's Party with this. Because from a company with an expiration date, giving it at least 75 years of extension, this is the multiplication of pans and fish!, a multimillionaire benefit. Then you'll have to explain to yourself what the People's Party brings out. Because I want to think that only by a few in the board of directors will you not sell the country and the district of Pontevedra. I want to think they don't sell themselves so cheap, they don't sell the country so they'll explain, when they're anyone, what's the matter. And look at one thing, it's also very sad that you're modifying a Back Law by selling it to our population that was going to be to solve the problem of the nuclei of the coast, and it turns out that the nuclei of the coast, the houses of our people, they have no solution, they're still affected and with the sword of Damocles above, and it turns out that the topic of Ence if they solve it. That's why we insist that you acted, actively and passively, to allow Ence to continue in the stream of Pontevedra. And look, I'm sorry that, having Galicia full powers in spatial planning – and now that the president of the Union is here – we meet once again with a government that refuses to act like such a government. Having legal instruments which grant them the Constitution, the Statute and judgments of the Constitutional Court, allow Madrid and the company to decide. For once, what we're asking for on this initiative is that they exercise in the Government of Galicia and don't sell our country for simple strawberries and for the interests of a pastry. It would be good, it would be good if they once acted in this country's service and acted in the Government of Galicia. Obviously, we are not going to accept the amendment of the People's Party. We thank the support of the other groups and accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, of addition, because, indeed, this Parliament made some decisions, the People's Party was softened because it believed that at that time it was worth it, including the President of the Union, here present, and voted in favour of this initiative. And now, where I said, say the devil, and the country for sale again. That's very sad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u214	Excuse me, Mrs. Prado, don't you accept any of the two amendments? I just didn't listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u215	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u216	The socialist amendment if you accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u217	Yes, indeed. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u218	Thank you. So we started with the vote on non-law proposals. Proposal by the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Galeg on the initiative of Mr Fajardo Recouso, who accepts the amendment of the Joint Group but as an addition, not as a replacement. We therefore vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the realization by the German Government of an integral plan for the recovery of the marine resources of the Arousa River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u219	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia with the amendment of the incorporated Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists on the actions to be carried out by the government in relation to the teaching staff and public educational centres of non-university education. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u220	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Farínas, who does not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolyto Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union in order to improve educational care for students with autistic spectrum disorder (AET). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u221	We are voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia at the initiative of Mr Tellado, who does not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in collaboration with the Welsh naval sector to promote entry into the sector of the manufacture of components of the marine wind. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u222	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco, who does not accept the amendment tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Galician Government in relation to the rates of telecommunications companies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. This initiative was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u223	We then voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Mrs Adán Villamarín, who calls on both sides to vote on two points separately. We would then vote first of all on point 1 of the initiative. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ma do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the management to be carried out by the Galician Union aimed at modifying the state and autonomous legislation to achieve the prevention and comprehensive protection against gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u224	And we voted for point 2 of the non-law proposal. We vote. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ma do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the management to be carried out by the Galician Union aimed at modifying the state and autonomous legislation to achieve the prevention and comprehensive protection against gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point of initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u225	Finally, we voted on the proposal by the G-upo Parliamentary of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores, who accepts the socialist amendment and does not accept the popular amendment. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ma Montserrat Prado Cores and Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the extension of the concession of ENCELINOSA in the Pontevedra River The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u226	At the end of the vote, we continue to develop the agenda with point 6 of interpellation. Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. on the action to be taken by the Galician Council on the data included in the report on the economic and social situation of Galicia of 2014, adopted by the Galician Economic and Social Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u227	You have the floor, to lodge your petition, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez, of the AGE Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u228	Good afternoon, Counselor. Welcome back. Counsellor, we present this inquiry to the Government after the report issued by the ESC was published on July 6, and the truth with a memory of the economic and social situation in this country that nothing has to do with the account that you are building; which indicates to all the light that either the People's Party's Report on Economic and Social Recovery is false, or you are actually living directly on another planet, because – I am insisting, that it is extensive, of course we say that it makes an amendment to the whole Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. It is not necessary to oppose, but simply that each of the points in each of the subjects explaining the report is demolition in the face of the action or, in their case, the inaction of the Galician Union, and particularly the cabinet you attend. Indeed, the account is false because there is no economic and social recovery, as you say, not even Galicia as it was the shirt Mr. Feijóo put on, not a good manager, is false. What the ESC points out is that we rightly have in almost all economic and social variables a negative differential with the rest of the state. And I would like you, today that you have the opportunity, to explain why Galicia is doing much worse in comparison in terms of unemployment rates, in terms of social protection, in terms of economic growth of GDP, in terms of inequality, in terms of poverty and so on, than the rest of the state. Indeed, Counselor, of course, there is no economic recovery, there is no economic recovery. The only economic recovery that really exists for the People's Party is the recovery of the IBEX 35, which are looting and earning benefits to the livelihood, but, really, as reflected in the ESC report, of course in this country, in Galicia, we are only facing a deep social rift that bears the name of inequality. Indeed, the ESC points out that its orthodox, radical policies, in which we are going to be neoliberal to the ultra-liberal – we have several examples in this hemicycle on the benches of the People's Party, are leading to the extermination of the Greek people, the Greek nation, ultimately of the workers and workers in this country. And certainly the ESC is demolition. They suggest that this economic recovery is absolutely weak in relation to the state averages; only – as I suppose you know – 0.4% in this country. Even the ESC says that there is no economic recovery, nor does that impact come – and I quote literally the material conditions of the lives of ordinary people. And even the ESC says – and it's not me – that the comparison with the state average is a very negative "deb" for the Galician Union, for you and for Alberto Núñez Feijóo. It also gives demolitter data that has to do with the negative differential, such as gross capital formation: we at 1,3% and the state average at 3,4%. He speaks of the unequal distribution of the burden of the crisis, and the ESC says: the crisis is paying the workers and the workers of Wales, they are not paying it the ones who have the most, the ones who must bring and the ones who are responsible for the crisis. Even it places us – as you well know – as a clearly cheap workforce, so cheap that we are on the queue at the price of the hours worked; it goes, indeed, in fourth position, losing the ranking, and every time – I insist cheaper for the employers of this country, for whom you work so well. By the way, call attention to you and to the advisor who had to be resigned, to the lady of the massive privatization of health, and make a call to Galician Union. Please – said the ESC, they invest more public resources in education, health, promotion, social protection. That's what they took, social protection, and those active public policies that you've completely dynamite. That is what the ESC says, it is not said by the Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, that we are very vehement and very belligerent against the Government of Galicia. He's even telling us that there is inaction in the regressive part of the crisis by his office and the Council of Galicia; the ESC says so. They're telling us that we're going back, and their policies not only help, they're sinking into the crisis situation that we have; that is, they're not valid, as all the economists and women in this country say. Tell him something you never want to talk about: the active population, Counselor. Even the Economic and Social Council is alarming, sends a SOS, for those people who have the name of youth, 15,000 people who have lost Galicia told the ESC in the past year, and even those people who are saying it, the ESC laughs at the Counsellor, but I can't invent anything. By reading the report you can... I'm literally quoting what the ESC says, it's not a version of the Gaga de Left Alternative, and it says exactly this, that we lost 15,000 new people, essentially between the barrier of 15 and 39 years, Counsellor. I don't think it's funny to me; that's what the ESC report says. Secondly, alert to the social disprotection of people who are in unemployment at the barrier above 45 years of age and the long-term unemployed and unemployed, even though they know that you, the People's Party, had to change their own concept of long-term unemployment. Indeed, the great scam of Galician savings boxes, the great scam of the sale – evil sale – by Alberto Núñez Feijóo and, indeed, that the credit does not flow. We keep telling the Economic and Social Council that to the self-employed, to small businesses, to pemens and to businesses in general in Galicia, there is not enough funding for what you suspect; not particularly you, Mr Feijó in a very particular way. And above all, it alerts us to what is happening in the energy sector in this country. I'm not going to quote you what Alcoa, Megasa, adds up and follows, what the workers and workers are living, and even the risk of these companies disappearing. Or even those public reports that we have to be told that a very powerful negative differential factor just for companies in this country is the price of energy. I'll also tell you what the report itself says, Counselor. I'd like to be Portuguese, though we're sure we are. We would like this country to have its public investment levels in R & D+i! The Economic and Social Council points out that the turning factor has been tremendous since the People's Party arrived, nothing more and nothing less, with that investment cut, which, as you know, today is 0.86 percent. I insist, we would like to have the investment to develop this country that has Portugal, which is close to us. Alert on quality of life and social welfare. And it gives serious attention to the problem of child poverty, to the existing unemployment coverage deficit, to the risk of social exclusion of unemployed people, who will not be able to develop as human beings, Counsellor. I suppose you have something to tell me about what you're going to do, because I don't know, but why we have it, honestly; we don't know very well why. And it also bothers you to conduct yourself with respect to the opacity and the long-lasting process that people who have nothing to take to their mouth, as are people who process the risk. So, Counselor, we on this initiative have raised 23 questions that I'm going to read, to see if you, from the 23, some concrete answer me. The first one. What's going on, and you have a section of the report, about quality backwardness also for workers and public workers. Counsellor Will Law 1/2012, dated February 29, be repealed, which as you know is a massive attack on workers and public workers? I guess it doesn't make sense, because, if there's economic recovery, they won't have to continue to suffer the consequences of the crisis, public officials and civil servants, and public workers, who have nothing to do with this. Secondly, will the budgetary levels – at least those they had before – be recovered in education and health, as the ESC points out?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u229	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u230	I'm almost... yes, all right, sorry, it's 23, so the lady's counselor has it. Will they develop active policies in family reconciliation? There's a very interesting point, Counselor, about what he says about employment and family reconciliation, about what he touches you, very interesting. Everything they've been poaching every day with regard to the intended family reconciliation. And I insist, Economic and Social Council, which is not of the Alternative Left-Galga. What measures are they going to implement so that we stop reducing the active population? What measures will they take to overcome the situation of youth in the labour market? What measures will they take to increase the unemployment coverage rate? What measures will the Union agree to protect the collective of long-term unemployed and even over 45 years of age? How are you getting them back to work, Counselor? What are the improvements going to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u232	...from Galician board to work risks? As you know, it has increased – finished, Madam President, I cannot continue – by 23% the sinlessness in cases of death casualties, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u234	I suppose something has to matter to you. So of the 23 questions, if possible, please hold some of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u235	The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u236	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all, gentlemen. Mrs. Díaz, the truth is that I will not have to tell you the opposition as if you have to do the task of controlling the Government, of course, but in my experience as a Member, trying to ask an interpellate of 23 questions from which you have not even been able to make your presentation, so that in ten minutes a member of the Government will answer each one, of course, this means that I do not know whether you lack experience as a Member, which I think is not, of course, or whether you need to prepare this preliminary debate of the state of autonomy, because really everything you ask is to take you to the debate of the state of autonomy. To talk about health, to talk about education, to try to talk about economics, to talk about research and development, to talk about social services, to talk about each and every one of their exhibitions, would lead to this government – when we had the opportunity to know this interpellation – about thirty seconds each of these questions. So we had two options. One out of two, or we've spent 30 seconds on each question, and so you think you're answering the question, or we're focusing on the questions that in this case are the competence of this board. We understand that, of course, out of respect, and especially because we do not try to be demagogic, we will try to give you a unique and exclusive answer to the questions of this council. I'm convinced – I'm telling you in advance – that I'm going to leave you totally frustrated, because you don't care what you say here, and even the counselor who comes here to answer, because if I answer everything, it's because I'm giving you a little time, and if I take it aside, it's because I'm going to challenge you separately and you probably won't like my answer. Anyway, and with regard to what you represent, which are the Greeks and the Greeks who trusted you, I'm going to explain the part that corresponds to this council. One of the questions – I don't know what number it is – is about the performances that the Galician Union is going to develop to overcome the situation of youth in the labour market. For the situation of youth in the labour market is the following – without reaching the figures, that figures, of course, are usually teimated because they are written and we can all take the number we want –: we can say that we now have, in August, approximately 10,000 unemployed under 25 years of age, according to the unemployment recorded; or if you want, you get 30,000, which are the ones that give the survey of the last active population; we would take any of them. What I do know is that there are 10,000 registered unemployed, 30,000 of the active population survey, which are absolutely unacceptable figures for this government. And this government, since minute one, is not only working for employment, but specifically for youth employment, and everything we've put into effect is developing since year 2009, and especially since year 2014, with two plans. A youth employment plan that brought together 100 million euros, and a plan called Youth Guarantee, which until recently was up to 25 years old and now is up to 30 years old, which has invested another 48 million euros; that is, about 150 million euros, destined – between 2014 and 2015 – to promote youth employment. These figures, which are investment in our active policies, have made our autonomous community out of where youth unemployment has been lowered during the year 2014 in children under the age of 25. But by saying more figures – and I repeat that they are teimudas, take what you want, those of registered unemployment, and you can even pick up the numbers of the survey of active population – today in our community there are fewer unemployed 25-year-olds, even under 30, than there were in 2009. I repeat again, there are fewer unemployed young people under 25 years of age, or less than 30 years of age, than there were exactly in August 2009. We will continue to work, because this is not a triumphalist version of the vision of the Government of Galician Union on the unemployment situation, and of course we will continue to wager and demand that the youth guarantee program continue to run, if it continues to run, and if it continues to run actively, and that the central government gives all the guidelines for this youth guarantee program to arrive, as quickly as possible, to all minors. Another question you ask in this 23-question interpellation is linked to long-term unemployed people who have family burdens, in particular over 45 years of age. This community was the first to put in place a complementary plan to support that plan, which they call an active plan, which from the central government led to the inclusion of long-term unemployed, and also envisaged the possibility of receiving assistance of more than 400 euros. We in January – this plan was approved in December of last year – and agreed with social agents, we put in place a specific plan, for these long-term unemployed, of 10 million euros, for their orientation, training, requalification, recognition of work experience, ultimately to make available, in this case, for example, 75 new technicians in the public service of employment so that they can meet these people and help them reach all the tools, such as the promotion of self-employment, such as the acquisition of key competences that are framed within that plan of 10 million euros, according to social agents, which has been developing since this same year. You also talk about how to increase the unemployment coverage rate. You will know – and I say that you will know very well – that the coverage rate is not an autonomous competition. The coverage rate is exactly a passive policy, and therefore we, autonomous communities, Galicia in particular, have no competence in passive policies, if we have them in active policies. Active employment policies that are and serve to improve the employability of the Greeks and the Greeks, in which we are investing 164 million euros, 12 million euros more this year. In this case, there is an increase in this year 2015, with respect to 2014, about 14% more active employment policy funds, not because there is a linear breakdown, but because there has been a good execution not only on targets, but also running this government's budget game. That is what has done, now that the State values by fulfilling objectives, Galicia will receive more funding for active employment policies. Obviously, we have to keep working to avoid the rates we're having of work accidents. Above all, we want to do this, as we have done so far, in the definition of this strategy of safety and health at work for the coming years 20152020, trying to agree with social agents those measures that will try to overcome that gap that we also have in our community, which are the occupational accidents. You also speak of something that is important to this government, which has taken the rent from the beginning, which is the situation in which our population is found, not only the active population, but the population. In fact, Galicia is experiencing a crisis, still experiencing a serious crisis from which it is not coming out, which is the demographic crisis; a crisis that this Government has understood – the president – from the first debate of the state of Autonomy and has put in place various measures not only to help the conciliation, but to make our community a more friendly community with birth. That's why it's increased by more than 20% this year for families with children from 0 to 3 years of age, and so in our schools we have our second child with the free public price for families with two children in childhood schools. Of course, we want to continue to work on conciliation measures that also support demographic dynamisation. We do it not only as an autonomous community, but also in the Forum of Regions that we have formed in Spain, and even before the European Union, and so what we are now growing up in squares. Growing up in squares that we know mean reconciliation; growing up in 3,800 squares in children's schools since 2009. Growing means 70% more infantry school squares; by the way, 99% are being developed by Galician workers, specifically the consortium. I mean, new infant schools put into operation, public schools and public squares; beyond that, in fact, we've also developed two other tools, such as nest houses, which we're going to develop this year, and even the home support service for children. This must also add the increase in the child's check. And it's also the first time we've made it possible for private children's schools to arrange 500 more squares. Finally, more conciliation measures. You're also talking about aging for our citizenship. Obviously, it is important for us to improve the conditions of the aging population that we have in our autonomous community, so we increase the first of all public squares by 50%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u237	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u238	...and, of course, we have modified the portfolio model to meet the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u239	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u240	If it were a debate about the state of autonomy, I'd even have time to answer the rest of the competition questions of this council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u241	Mrs. Díaz, reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u242	Counselor, I appreciate your reply. He said a lot of things, even if you don't believe him. What happens is that this argument of time must be new, I insist, because you've taken quite a lot of your time just trying to give this replica. Look, Counsellor, today a newspaper in this country is published: the occupation of young Germans has decreased by 25% since labour reform. Is this true or is it not? It's news today. You here assumed the Youth Guarantee Plan, what I've already told you, and I can say, in addition, a failed state plan in terms of achieving Galicia's results, and you're here again talking about the same plan with the same results. Even today – I suppose you have read the press as I do – the headline is powerful: occupation of young and young gales, 25 percent less. I don't know, at least I deny this reality. Secondly, I already know about my profession, Counselor, what active and passive policies are, and I know exactly what your competences are, the problem is that you know that acting in active policies involves passive policies, you know it perfectly well. The question is, Counsellor, in which I would like you to make a rereading of the dismantling that you have made of the active policies in this country, Counsellor. Do you remember that suppression of labor guidance? Remember? Me and them too, and them. Do you know they're paying ETT for those pleasures? That for every worker or every unemployed worker you're busy with, you pay, like, 3,000 euros? Well, of course, these are the realities, Counselor, and that's what I'd like to talk about because they're quite serious and quite relevant things. You came here without pre-loading the active policies, but promising those nonsense that they were going to fix the unemployment problem in 45 days. These frivolities in politics are paid. We didn't tell them, you told them. And I think it's about reporting now. What I would like to know about you, Counselor, in view of this so negative data, which I thank you for acknowledging, is what you will do, Counselor. Because we don't argue anymore if I stop registered or EPA. In any case, EPA, the last – and I don't lie – 252,000 people, workers and workers, unemployed. I don't lie, 23% increase in worklessness as a result of death, Counselor. What I'm asking for is measures. You spoke quickly, but tell me, will you rectify your policies? This is the question, because, I insist, I think, thanking you for recognizing the data, this is quite serious. Regarding the question of demography and economic exile, as we call it, Counselor, with 15,000 people in the age line up to 39 years, of course, that telling me about a forum is very good, Counselor, but I think we have to do something beyond giving them luggage, as Mr. Feijóo in the City of Culture and even paying them, as Mrs. Fatima Báñez does, the journey to these people. And then, Counsellor, of course, you talk here about the squares that are held in private –500 –. And, Counselor, you know how I am that the private squares are rather expensive than the public squares. And you, despite the bad data you have, still have an impact on the business itself that is being done on the private networks of all kinds of issues. We could talk about Index and others, and I'm not talking about the foundation, I'm talking about other things. And then, I think that in the issues that we propose here, that is, in terms of both the family reconciliation measures, the active population, the youth situation, the unemployment coverage, the unemployed -- what to do with them after the age of 45, or what measures to implement to re-integrate them into the labour market and other --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u243	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u244	...and at work risks, rather than telling me the report itself, which I know, tell me what you're going to do. That's the point. And I suppose the rest of the measures that affect child poverty and reach dependency and risk can also tell us what it's going to change; especially Risga, it's an easy matter. I mean, say how we're going to stop nine months late in processing a Risga, or how we're going to do what the previous People's Valedor said – Mr. Julius, already done – said. That is to say, it is to be provisionally assisted, because the data are still demolitional. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u245	Thank you very much. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u246	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the truth is, of course, we will never reach a point of confluence in our visions of the situation in which the autonomous community is. You have an absolutely apocalyptic vision, but that's why I can't ignore what you've made here a series of assertions you don't agree with, but they're definitely false. Because you in your first intervention said that Galicia had the worst unemployment rate, that we were worse than in Spain, that we had worse poverty indicators than in Spain, and that Galicia obviously had a problem because it was not evolving in the same way that the rest of Spain was doing, which is ultimately false. And you know very well that the unemployment rate of our community – not to mention it – is much lower than the average rate of Spain. And you know very well – and if you don't, you should know – that the risk rate of poverty, taking the one you pick up – just like INE's, taking AROPE, any of them, puts us in the autonomous community as one that's at the end of the list at the rate of poverty. In particular, we are, according to the INE, fifth position below the poverty rate rates. And, therefore, this apocalyptic vision that you want to move to the Greeks and to the Greeks is not only not to share it, but sometimes, in certain indicators, they are ultimately false. That doesn't mean that from this government we're happy with the situation we're living in, and that we're not putting all measures, in our competences, to change this situation and that this situation is getting better. And today Galicia can say, by many indicators, that it's better than four years ago. Today Galicia is growing, in black numbers, when four years ago it was in recession and it was in red numbers. Today Galicia has more members of Social Security; specifically, in the last year, 21,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago. Today Galicia has fewer unemployed people targeted at unemployment than three or four years ago. Today Galicia, and also said by reports that you like to take but that of course you don't like to read, is the community that since 2009 has lowered its rate of risk of poverty. And of course, Your Honor, he likes it or doesn't like it, it's not because it's yes, it's not because the wind comes or because it touches Galicia. That's because if you've taken a number of measures in our community, chaired, of course, by the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, which have influenced our economy, which have also influenced the industry; where, of course, in the month of July – of which you don't speak – made us the fourth most developed community in the industrial production index. This means that we are also growing up in industry, and obviously it means that we have to keep working to get this situation changed and we can respond to all the needs that the Greeks have, not only the first of all as important, as employment, but also all that means their social care. And to respond to the needs of the Greeks, this government, from minute one, shielded the social budget, linked to education, health and social services. Three out of four euros are directly and precisely linked to that protection. And not only shielded us, but in the area of competition from this council, they increased the public squares for children's schools, they increased the public squares for day centers, they increased the public squares of alzheimer, they increased the public squares of residences. In fact, it also increased the assumption of social integration income, giving each year a response to all the demands of requests that we had from the people who were going through it worse. And so we're going on, in fact, this year we also had to increase our budget until we reach from the 47 million euros to the 53 that we're going to end this year, in order to meet precisely the income of social integration. And there are two important issues that we are piloting since the Government of Galicia: the fight against inequality with a new plan that put in place President Alberto Núñez Feijóo before summer, a plan to reach people not only who have no resources, but who have little resources, a plan that is already running and running; and, of course, the battle we have to fight among all, that is not the competence of the Galician Union, which is a problem of the whole of Galician society, which is the demographic situation of our community, to which we, of course, will face. It seems to you that the worse it goes to Galicia, the better it is for you. But what I can assure you is that with this approach you will be very ill, Mrs. Díaz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u247	Thank you. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u248	Let's restart the session. Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the management carried out by the Board of Galicia so that the Greek vessels of siege have the increase of the quota of boar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u249	To formulate the question, Mr. José Ramón Val Alonso, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u250	Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counsellor, we have started a new session in this legislation. I have to tell you that I have a deep feeling of dja vu, that I have already lived this debate on other occasions. I don't know if the same thing will happen to you, but, well, I guess not, because you unfortunately have for some time given up defending our professionals from the sea, defending our fishing industry. And, therefore, you have given up knowing what your problems are as well. I don't know if you'll know if you still have the same ones as a few months ago or have completely different ones. Unfortunately, you have to admit that this is so, that you haven't known for a long time what's happening to our sea sector in Galicia. Look, I can almost understand that you do this, because you know perfectly the position that today you occupy in Mr. Feijó's Government. You know you're politically amortized and all you have to do is make the president's parapet. This is the function that you do, legitimate, I'm not going to argue with you, but tremendously unfortunate for those who are affected by its consequences, which in this case is nothing other than our fishing sector. The interpellation we are debating today... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to participate in the debate too, Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u251	Don't talk, please. Mr. Tellado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u252	He also knows about fishing, I don't know, I wonder... Look, the question we are debating today and what you are responding to is to talk about one of these problems affecting the search sector; if you don't remember, a sector consisting of 154 vessels – but 159 – which gives direct employment to more than 1,500 people. And that's what you guys in the last three years have been in charge of continually mistreating the policies that they've put in place since the governments that they preside over here, both in the Council of Galicia and in the Government of the State. Look, what we're going to talk about today isn't something new, it's something that's old. The Socialist Parliamentary Group registered an initiative under this theme on 20 March 2013. So we warned you and the People's Group about what could happen with the distribution of fishing opportunities made in 9A. So we said the same thing today, Counsellor: that it is neither understandable nor comprehensible by a serious government, by a government that says it defends the interests of the Galician fleet, to accept this proposal for distribution that gives our community 1.14% of fishing opportunities for mouthfish. That's right. Justified in those manners and defended by your historical criteria. You know that this division was an imposition, you know that it was an imposition of Mr. Carlos Domínguez's former Secretary General of Fisheries, and that it was also backed by you here in Galicia. You also know that they put another goal in the sector with this distribution, because they told you they didn't worry, they were quiet, that, if it appeared on the German coasts, they would make tons available to the sector so that they could fish quietly. Well, I ask today: what was all this? what was this commitment made by the former Secretary General of Fisheries?, where are those tons that were engaged and that would be made available to the sector? Look, I really don't know how you think the sector will trust your person when you lie to him shamelessly, when you can't even claim compliance with your commitments. This is reality. I'm not inventing anything to you, Counselor. You know perfectly well that was so, there are the hemerothecs where you can check the statements of the former Secretary General of Fisheries. Look, you haven't done anything to claim compliance with those agreements, and you haven't done anything because Zone 9A is in practice closed for the fishing of the mouthpiece since February. It is true that there have been exchanges with Portugal and that it has been made available for fishing in that zone 9A, but we must also know and tell the Members of the People's Party, if they do not know, that Galicia has come to 12 tons, 12 tons for Galicia in front of the 1,100 tons that have been made available to the Andalusian fleet! I don't know if this seems normal to you, I don't know if this seems logical to you, this question. It doesn't seem to us, but unfortunately the boats and the seamen are already used to the fact that with you fishers are other, they are the ships of other communities, while ours have to paralyze their activity and stop fishing. I don't know what makes you funny, Counselor. Yesterday he was also pleased with the debate with the gloves, and today he is grateful for the debate on the fleet of the siege. I don't know, I really don't know, what's funny to you, Counselor, I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u253	Quiet, please. Mr. Val...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u254	And this is happening, this is happening in zone 9A, it's not a random thing. It happened in every and every one of the pelagic species, in every division of pelagic species, in the yard, in the jury, in the mouth, and in every one of the fishing areas, in 8C, in the 9A. I don't know how you still do today is able to say that this distribution model favors us, the Greeks. I don't know what interest you're defending, Counselor. When 90% of the Galician siege fleet is telling you that this division is not good, that it cannot maintain its activity, you remain committed to defending that division. Honestly, one day you'll have to explain why you're still defending this position. Because what we're asking for is something very easy, very easy, a political position in defense of the interests of the Greek fleet. That's what you say repeatedly in your speeches, that's to encourage employment at sea, that's to favor the economy, to set up population in coastal villages. Do you think this division is favouring you? Honestly, that's what I'm asking you. You'll have to explain to us one day how you can defend this division, when we don't tell you, but the sector itself is saying it's taking them to complete ruin. Besides, it's something anyone with two fingers in front of him can guess. Because I give you an example of what I always do to you, Counselor: if you were the shipowner of a siege ship carrying 10 or 12 crew members on board, who are paying you 15,000 or 20,000 kilograms of yard, 15,000 or 20,000 kilograms of interest, with the mercenary fishing plan, with your mouth closed in 9A since February, with your mouth closed in about 8C for about a month ago, do you think that this company is profitable? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, at best, and being generous, you can keep up your activity for two months with those fishing possibilities. What about the rest of the year? Look, if you're really keeping up with time, it's because there's a private organization that's responsibly managing the fishing opportunities together. It is regrettable, Counselor, that it must be this private entity that is assuming the role of the Government itself. What you should be doing is you're doing a private entity. And the saddest thing is that you can't stand up for your associates and defend your demands. All he does every day is criticize them, and even at some point, as he's done some years ago, insult them. That's what you're doing, Counselor, even if you give it to your head and say no, it's there in the hemerothecs. Four exalted barbarians called them, remember it, remember it, remember it, Counselor. That's how it was, Counselor. Look, I repeat to you that something is not doing well, something is not doing well when in June or July the sector itself is asking to set in motion the flexibility mechanism, which you know perfectly well that it is to make available the current year rather than attracting it from the following year. Does it seem normal to you that when there are still six or seven months to end the year, we have to use this mechanism? Do you think it is normal? I don't think so, and I think you should give those answers, and that's why you have the questions that we're asking you in writing today. Because, honestly, Counselor, come here laughing when there's a lot of people going through it... there's a lot of people who've been standing around continuously speaking against their actions, that every Friday they meet in Portsin because they know they've got the juice on top of their heads, and you're there without doing anything at all. Look, it hurts me to tell you what I'm going to say, but if you really want to do something positive for the sector, the best thing you can do is get your bags and go home. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u255	Mrs. Rosa Quintana has the floor of the councillor from the middle of the countryside and the sea. [[Murmurs.]] Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, you were talking about discriminatory treatment in the division that was made for zone 9, and I think it's necessary to tone what is discriminatory. I understand that something that is done according to legislation and that has defined criteria can never be discriminatory to anyone, especially when the issues are based on the data itself drawn by the sector. The current distribution of this species to our fleet must be subject to a basis of historical catch criteria, and the catch of this fleet is scarce in this fishery, since the average of unloaded width does not reach the 100 tons per year in the last fifteen years. In addition to being considered in this division as a socio-economic weighting, we must remember that we continue to share fishing opportunities with another fleet of broad dependence and social involvement, and we understand that no one can discard this when analyzing this issue. In any case, that sharing does not mean that we are in keeping with it in practical terms, because we understand that, as a species of migration and a short life cycle, it could yield greater performance, if it always respects biological criteria and limits to avoid collapses like data a few years ago. Having said this, and answering the questions that you were asking in your writing, what managements has the Government made so that the Greek siege ships will have an increase in the quota of mouth compromised by the Magram in area 100 9A? We have to say in advance that we are in the same position as we have always been, that we have to fulfil the commitment that the central government has to the sector, and that it would allow fishing opportunities when this species appears. In this sense, and in order to solve a possible failure of quota of the Welsh fleet to fish for shellfish, the possibility of having a fishing quota was committed to those years in which the resource is found in our waters. To define this possibility of articulating this commitment, since the Council took up the proposal made by the Sectoral Commission for the Research of the Galician Fisheries Council, which at its meeting on July 13 showed its disagreement with the current allocation of the anchor quota in zone 9A, as it is collected in Order 1307/2013 of July 1. It understands our sector that this division was accepted by representatives of the Welsh fleet on the basis of a commitment from the Secretary General of Fisheries that should be fulfilled. On the basis of the circumstances exposed and in order to comply with the commitment, he had agreed on a proposal for a work which would resolve the situation in the years in which recourse appears in the waters of the 9A part of Galicia, and which he resides in an appropriate manner in the order in which I referred to earlier. The possibility that in the distribution of the quota corresponding to Spain in the width TAC in zone 9A is set an annual reserve of 10 % of the Spanish quota in this area for its fishing by base-port search vessels in Galicia in the case of an anchor in the waters north of zone 9A and that it would be subject to its maintenance until 31 October each year. After that date, and if the need for allocation and use of that quantity is not met, its reallocation would be made according to the needs of the Spanish fleet of siege operating in the waters of that area. In this way this proposal was raised to the Ministry for its analysis, and it was reiterated in those analysis forums that took place in this state framework and in those which the Union participated in. In addition, and to expand this stretch quota, the possibility of an anchor exchange of sardine per anchor with Portugal has been promoted, which, as you should well know, does not count on the approval of the whole sector, so we should consider its application. As far as we believe that the treatment that the Galician fleet is receiving in the distribution of fishing opportunities by the Ministry is appropriate, I think that we need to analyze this allocation together, since analysis on the basis of one species can be even captivating. So the first question I have to underline is that it seems to us a division according to legislation, and with defined criteria where the socio-economic weighting of our fleet is advanced and where we have to see the advantage of knowing how, how, how and where we can fish. This distribution, in terms of our Greek round fleet, has a good result in the jury, less good in the yard, since it remains paved and conditioned by the payment of a fine for the overfishing of this species in 2009 and 2010, and the jury supports the criteria that have marked the fisheries for all other Greek fleets. But it is not less than 24,8 % of the quota of the garden and 43,2 % of the whole of the three fishing areas, even obtaining figures to be noted, such as 97,9 % of the quota of this species in zone 9A, which is the one that has Fisterra to the south. In this sense, we believe that, likewise, this division goes on the line that we always demand and that even the fleet itself demanded. We want to be able to fish and order the fishery, thinking that it's not always the worst option, because that's what other rulers were doing, and that's where two sanctions for overfishing are imposed. In addition, we have to bear in mind that this division we analyzed in the case of the width is limited by being a highly migratory species whose presence in our waters was not common in recent years and which resulted in a small discharge of it by our fleet in Galicia. In this sense, the average annual discharge in the Greek ports of zone 9A does not reach 45 tonnes in the last fifteen years prior to the agreement, and we must remember that the possibilities allocated for this year or for the previous one were more than 50 tonnes. Since then, except for the last two years, we would not have fished the quota to be allocated to us, but the abundance in this biennium makes it necessary to change that allocation to consolidate the commitment and fishing opportunities for our fleet. With regard to what measures the Government will launch, I would like to point out that we are working on an improvement in the data flow and monitoring of these measures to prevent us from applying another overfishing penalty as we already have and that, as you well know, they make bread for fifteen days and hunger for many months. We believe that this line of work, coupled with the demand that we point between the Galician Fisheries Council and the Union, can bring positive results to our fleet, as the small quotas must be appropriate. In that effort, we've been working, and it's hard for you, since 2009, and we think we're on the right track. The quotas of the target species of the siege, the yard, the jury and the anchor, since 2009 have risen by 52 %. In addition, it should be remembered that the northern stock of this fishery has been recovered with an important quota in which there is no division and that these years have allowed our searchers to fish in an important way to the north of Fisterra. With regard to your last question about whether we're going to demand a new allocation, we think it would be answered by rereading the quota allocation proposal. But I would also like to make an added consideration on the matter. This focuses on the importance of trying not to be fooled by how many are in the sector. Because when we go to find her, it may turn out that we're back in the lurch. We must bear in mind that the main species of our fleet is the Jury, of which we have in zone 9A practically 98% of fishing opportunities. If we reopen the distribution, the Andalusian fleet may also claim an opening of the distribution of the jury, and we may see each other again in the situation that the anchor does not enter Galicia every year. By not losing a species that is casual in Galicia we can lose the target species of the siege. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u257	Mr. Val Alonso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u258	Counselor, it's really hard to see here and come as you come, just covering the file. All that he told me we already know, and you know the sector, but it's not worth anything at all, for nothing, Counselor. Do you want to tell me that today's best siege ships four years ago? You want to tell me that? Well, the truth is, if we're at that point, there's nothing else to discuss. I mean, there's nothing else to argue about. Are we better than when the boats could fish 6,000 kilograms of interest a day, 7,000 kilograms of sardines, 10,000 boar and now, since June 16, they can fish 1,000 kilograms a week of interest, the yard is missing and the jure closed in zone 8C since yesterday? Is that better? The truth is, if we're at that point, there's not much more to discuss, Counselor. Look, you're telling me it's a legal criterion. I'd miss more! But what we've been telling you for a long time is that what the Fisheries Act says is that distribution must be done on the basis of historical facts, indeed. But nowhere does it say they have to weigh 70%. That was something that you decided. You decided that those records had a relative weight of 70 % in the distribution. That's what you decided, and what we're asking is that it change and take into account other criteria, such as employment at sea. That's the reality, Counselor, and you come here talking to me about overfishing sanctions. But you weren't a counselor by then? Didn't you have any responsibility to control too? Were you not a counselor in 2009 and 2010? Didn't you have any responsibility, Counselor? And besides, I can tell you one thing: about the penalty for overfishing I don't believe it. When there are other countries that are self-assigning millions and millions of tons, we have to pay a penalty for overfishing. And it's very good about socializing the problem, because you know the capture data perfectly well. So the fishermen are the ones who are now awarded in the distribution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Isn't there anyone who noticed that at the Council? I mean, there's the entire Welsh fleet paying for overfishing sanctions and they have no quota, and the ones who fished are the ones who are now having that allocation of fishing opportunities. That's right, Counselor, and you say absolutely nothing, you say absolutely nothing, Counselor. I think it's amazing that there are situations like the one that took place last week in the port of Coruña: that there is a cantabrian ship coming and landing 40,000 kilos of interest in one day, 40,000 kilos of interest! when our ships can download 1,000 kilos a week. And that seems normal to you. Look, 120 yellow ships that run together had in 8C – because they already have the fishing boat closed – 1,430 tons of interest all year round. They've run out. And 41 cantabrian boats, speaking of the cantabrians – because we always have the idea that we speak of the Basques – have 3,119 tons of interest. I mean, 54% more. Does this sound normal to you? If you say yes, the truth is there's not much more to talk about. No, that's the reality. And that means they're better today, they're better today than they've been three and four years. Look, Counsellor, I really – I told you at the beginning of my speech – have a feeling of being on the same day, always getting up on the same day, coming to Parliament with these issues, with a claim of 90% of the fence sector in Galicia, and you are a frontal, a wall, instead of standing next to you. Why do you defend this division, if you can check perfectly how bad it is for the sector, isn't it good, Counselor, and you know it perfectly? You're forcing us to play in the razor's thread. Because you're counting: from June, 1,000 kilos of interest per week; 1,000 kilos of interest is 100 small boxes, 8 euros per box is 800 euros per week. How can a ship with 10 men on board take the ship's expenses, gasoil, crew social security and distribute a salary for those 10 people? How are you going to do that, Counselor? How are you gonna do that? That's what you have to answer. It's not good for you to come to Parliament and say: No, no, it's very good that this division is because we were able to increase in zone 9A by 50% or 90% the interest. What about the other areas? And why don't you cross 9A to 8C? Why don't you ask for it? They don't do anything at all, Mrs. Quintana. Look, I unfortunately have to finish as I told you before. I think you're completely politically amortized, the best thing you can do to the sector and yourself is go home. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u259	The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, I'll have to go home, but it's also very sad that you, who's been fishing delegate, have certain concepts that you haven't just understood. Now let me explain how the fishing was when we got to the Government in 2009, now I'll explain. To confuse some commercial tops with fishing tops, you have to have... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So, just do a few simple calculations. You said 6,000 kilos a day of jurelo, 7,000 kilos a day of sardine and 10,000 kilos a day of garden, for 159 boats, for 365 days of the year, how many tops did we have to catch then? Well, but please, sir... you're telling me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u261	Mr. Val!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u262	It's a lie, that's a commercial tip, you can't download any more of it. Now, that doesn't mean they're every day of the year that they had those fishing opportunities, because they never had those fishing opportunities in Spain. You can't confuse the commercial tops with the distribution we have, and you, who was a delegate, should know that. And I also tell you one thing, I also tell you one thing so you don't get nervous. The first thing we did to fix the problem of the siege ships was to land an agreement that made the socialist government of Madrid give more fishing opportunities to the trawlers than to the siege ships. That was the first, and now you're still asking me for explanations. Do you want to tell me – with the data, eh! – you want to tell me that, if we had 64,964 tons of fishing opportunities for jure, yard and width and now we have 98,772 tons, that's not an increase of 52%? Do your calculations. Can you tell me how the ships used to live well and now it's impossible? Mr. Val, don't get carried away by passion, I know you don't want to see me in front of the Council, but be consistent with your explanations, be reactionary to your explanations, go from time to time as far as the distance, which has it very close to Burela. I've been there fifteen days ago, there were the charming siege boats with the cups that have this year's mouth. It's true that in zone 9 we have few fishing opportunities, because at the time we decided to bet on the preferred species for our fleet, which is the jury. And that's how most of our sector understands it. We have to think about everyone, you can't fool the sector. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u263	Mr. Val, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u264	It's just that you come here with a series of inaccuracies that are not logical. I can understand that somebody, to sell news to a newspaper, say that we used to have 6,000 kilos of interest, 7,000 sardines, 10,000 yards. Yes, as a commercial rule, but not as a top fishing. Because that calculation anyone who lives in the sector knows it is, that they couldn't fish all that every day of the year, because Spain never had those fishing opportunities. And don't come to me to report that I was already in the Council in 2009 and I was in the Council in 2010. Galicia, since 2009, has changed its vision in Europe and so has it acknowledged both Commissioner Damanaki and Director General Lori Evans. Other communities, not; and the government that was not there at that time either. He even said that what was fished in inland waters didn't count. Then came the fine for overfishing and, my friend, now that the others come and fix it. Here, as I always say, I will defend my sector, I still demand that Madrid let us fish possibilities in zone 9A for width, but looking for a solution so that we can not be touched by the key of distribution and take off the jury, which is a fundamental species for the fleet of the siege. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u265	Thank you very much. Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the application of the transitional provision third, point 3, of Law 2/2013, of 29 May, of the protection and sustainable use of the coast and of the amendment of Law 22/1988, of 28 June, of the back
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u266	You have the word, Mr. Bugallo, to formulate your plea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u267	Thank you very much and very good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Also Mrs. Environmental, Territory and Infrastructure Advisor. On May 30, 2013 the text of the recent Law 2/2013, of the protection and sustainable use of the coast and of the amendment of Law 22/1998, was published in the Official Gazette of the State. The above-mentioned law opened a period of two years from 31 May 2013, i.e. from the day of its entry into force, so that the nuclei or areas which at its entry into force were not classified as urban soil if they could apply the third transitional provision of the above-mentioned Back Law. The content of this law was the subject of an interpeleration in this same plenary session, just on the same day as the Senate approved the text of the law. That question was discussed at the meeting on 24 April 2013. I'll read you some of the things that Mr. Counsellor, your predecessor in charge, Mr. Augustine Hernández and I were telling ourselves here. He told them at that time that the object of the law and so explained in his memory is to solve certain problems and, specifically, the problem of property owners on the coast within the line of protection, especially certain assets mortgaged by themselves, to a large extent ownership of English, French or German citizens, with mortgage ballots that are in banks also mostly English or German. And it was also said, and it is also expressly collected in the law itself, that it is to solve the situation of those industrial administrative concessions that are due in 2018 and that through this law they may be extended until 2093. So we said that and we put as an example a well-known installation of which we've just spoken not too long ago in this same Plenary, which is Ence, in the stream of Pontevedra. He called out to Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Agustín Hernández, page 36 of the same bulletin, and said, "Give the impression, Mr. Bugallo, that the law is thought to you for big businesses and for foreign citizens. But, no doubt, Mr. Bugallo, I suppose you too will know perfectly well that thousands of Greeks on our coast will benefit from the application of the law." He kept saying, "There will, as you know, be no automatic extension for industrial occupations, in which autonomous communities will have the last word." I repeat, because it is a great lie – I say – "(...) the autonomous communities will have the last word." And, excitedly, he kept saying, "The modification of the law of the back comes to cover a historical claim as a recognition of the traditional cores of our coastline." And he even went on -- page 37 -- saying, "It's estimated that changing the law will benefit 8,000 homes at first." I understand he was referring to Galicia. On the same date, Senator Enrique López Veiga, also excited, aside from talking about the 8,000 dwellings, said: "Many things have been changed because the law of 88 had problems to apply, and yes, there are some things of justice, such as giving solution in Galicia to the marine nuclei of Ribeira, Marín, The Island and Vilaboa" – he mentioned. He went on to say: "It is a national law, and if what he presents is to solve a case he can open doors, especially in the tourist areas, that the Ministry of the Environment does not want to open. I can understand that, tried with the Island specifically but it was not possible." The one on the island was not possible, but in Formentera, in Ampuriabrava, on Cristina Island, there it was possible because there the tourist pressure is much lower. Even excited, at the same time – I have another newspaper here – speaking precisely of his advice, I will read to him, says: "In this situation" – one speaks of nuclei that are not recognised – "255 settlements are found, 126 correspond to 23 municipalities in Pontevedra, 119 to 29 municipalities in A Coruña, 19 to 6 municipalities in Lugo, according to the data provided by the Environmental Council." And it goes on to say, "The process of regularizing these houses will be quite simple according to account" – I say myself – "the Secretary of Planning of the Territory and Urbanism, Incarnation Rivas. It will be enough for the municipality to issue a notification to the Ministry of the Environment, which has competence over the coast." Well, then he's talking about the most beneficiaries, and he's setting an example for Cangas, with 18 nuclei, and Oia, with 14, which you'll already tell us about how these nuclei are. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, on May 31, 2015, the two-year term was fulfilled for the municipalities to request the regularization of traditional nuclei. So, once that deadline is over, knowing that there is some case that is partially resolved, knowing that there are a lot of cases in which all the requested nuclei have been denied and knowing that there are certainly other cases in the process – because the Ministry has eighteen months to resolve – on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have to ask you, Counsellor, what is the balance of these two years. How many of the 255 nuclei have been regularized over these two years? How many of the 12,500 homes have been regularized, or at least 8,000 would benefit immediately according to the data you provided? Your Honor, recently your board has just made public that it offers its collaboration, and the central administration, to help the municipalities and advise them to solve this problem. It's not bad, but it's probably 27 months late for this offer. To this House and, of course, to our parliamentary group, we would like to know what your councillor has done in this matter over these two years and what were the results of this procedure which, according to Ms. Encarnation Rivas, according to Senator Enrique López Veiga and according to the previous advisor, would be so fast, so simple and apparently so effective. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u268	Thank you, Mr. Bugallo. Mrs. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u269	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, we are clearly aware that Galicia has its own uniqueities in urban management. In Galicia we have historical peculiarities that distinguish us from the rest of Spain, it is known to all. We're the peninsula region with more miles of coastline, more than 1,400. We are the autonomous community where half of Spain's population nuclei are concentrated, and these are endemic characteristics of the territory of Galicia that have led us to create a unique type of soil throughout Spain, which is the soil of rural core, an eminently urban one but which cannot be exempted from the same services because we are talking about small populations, small nuclei. Rural cores that constitute a key piece for Galicia's progress, because we can't conceive a thriving Galicia without a living rural, and that's why we need and we want, of course, to be able to give security and quiet to the people who live in these nuclei. And that's why in Junta, of course, we've been working hard, I have to say, to make state legislation recognize the equivalence between the rural soil core and the urban soil. And so the Ministry of Development is doing so with the new Road Law, and so with that same criterion we have proposed and managed that it be accepted in the reform of the Law on Backs and, of course, we also want it with the allegations that we present to the real decree that the Ministry is dealing with regulating the uses of flood zones, which you do not refer to, but of course it is very important; claims that I hope, of course, that will be taken into account the sensitivity of the Government of Spain, as demonstrated by the reform of this Law on Backs. Because I think you've opened a new door, because it collects mechanisms to regulate our traditional coastal cores, which have been there since before the year 88. As you well said, the Law of the Back applies a regime of limitations in the protective servo zone established for 20 meters of urban soil and for 100 meters for those outside it, and causes many buildings in soil of rural core on the coast because they are found out of management. But I have to say that since June we have always defended these peculiarities and then we share and we want to make the traditional core compatible with the protection of our coastline. And thanks to this joint work done between Junta and Central Government, the Law of the Back picks up for the first time a way to solve this regularization and solve this demand to be able to regularize these traditional nuclei, a path that passes through the area from 100 meters to 20 meters in those municipalities that demonstrate and believe the existence of these consolidated urban nuclei prior to the year 88. Therefore, in order for traditional coastal nuclei to be able to count on this legal protection, the municipalities should believe correctly and strictly because the existence of these nuclei. It is a path, of course, in which the Union has always offered and has given the utmost collaboration to all and each of the municipalities that have requested it, to all the municipalities that have requested it. At the juntta we are convinced that the best formula to achieve this goal is to regularize these nuclei through general plans. We insist, I have to insist again, on the need to speed up these municipal management plans in those municipalities where they have these problems. The best example we have in Marin, you know. He managed to give legal security and tranquillity to those citizens who live in those nuclei, and he got it through his general plan. Marin began the work where he had to do it, approving the general plan, and this was what facilitated the delimitation of these coastal nuclei, an approval, of course, which is all an example, an example, because all politicians worked together. And once these populations were defined and delimited, these settlements, it was much easier, of course, to get Aguate, Houses, Loire, Theoira and Mogor to achieve equal conditions than urban soil. This is one more sample – I have to say – of well done work. And with coordinated and joint action and the constant work of administrations, we can certainly achieve satisfactory results, because we are faced with achievements, such as the case of Marín, which benefit and provide legal security to the Greeks who live on our coast and in our rural areas. And Marín knows it's not the only Galician municipality that started and successfully completed this topic. There are other municipalities that have also succeeded; for example, I'm going to talk about Baiona Town Hall, center of Rocamar; in the Town Hall of Walls, five nuclei: BornaleThe Crusher, Surribos, The Vineyard, The Robaleira and Valdexería. And the key to success, the key to this success in these municipalities that I just named, is that they knew how to define a good general plan, with transparency and loyalty. Counting on urban planning, I know it's not the only method, but it's certainly the method you've been accredited and it's proven to be the most effective. And here are examples of Marín County, Baiona Town Hall and Wall Town Hall. It's the formula that, since June, we've always supported, from the beginning, and of course, we're still betting. Your Honor, we want to give solutions, of course, yes, and we are still in time, we are still in time to achieve new regularizations and to make the most of this opportunity that this new regulation has given us. Because, Your Honor, although the Union has no direct competence in the solution of this problem, I can assure you that it is a matter on which the Government has been involved from the beginning, and we are, of course, still involved. We have held numerous meetings with the Directorate-General of Costas, moved on repeated occasions to Madrid to consensualize and propose solutions and initiate dialogue processes. And I can say that the Government of Spain has soon understood and recognized the true unique situation of our Greek coast. Despite all the efforts, as you say, there are councils that have been denied the recognition of their singularities. But the councils that continue to strive will continue to strive for these singularities to be taken into account. And also from the German Government we remain committed and we will work in the field of our competences and responsibilities to achieve a result, the result that is beneficial so that we can regulate the largest number of Greek nuclei and provide maximum legal security the maximum number of dwellings. And so at the end of last month, I sent a letter to the Secretary of State asking for and holding a meeting, a meeting I could have held on September 1st. I had the opportunity to transfer them to the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment and to the Director General of Coasts the concern of the Greek Government. I have to say that it was a fruitful meeting, because we requested, and so we were allowed, that the autonomous administration had taken part in these open processes for the regularization of these coastal cores under the new Law of Back. Our purpose is to be able to provide the best technical advice to the municipalities concerned, to the municipalities affected so request, in order to provide maximum legal security and also to the greatest possible number of traditional settlements. This is a priority objective, a priority for our coastal councils, of course also a priority for the Council of Galicia, and I am aware that it is an old citizen claim but also a claim that we make. It is a task in which the councils that ask for it will count on our support, our determination and, of course, sensitivity. In the Greek Government we are the first to give legal security and tranquillity to those neighbors who live on our coast and on our Greek coast in these rural nuclei. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u270	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo's reply to the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u271	Thank you very much again. And good afternoon, gentlemen. You're right about something Mrs. Counselor said. I haven't talked about the Law of Inundable Areas, but the subject we bring today is the Law of Back, and of the Inundable Areas we'll see what's going on. What we are now seeing is what happened to the Law of Back, and I have to remember the commitment announced by the People's Party in this House, by the Senator of the Enrique López Veiga People's Party, by the General Secretariat of Urbanism, which remains the same general secretary of urbanism, about the 8,000 housing units that would regulate their situation immediately, over the 255 nuclei. Look, Counselor, in Galicia, and you know it as well as I do, there are 87 municipalities on the coast. You just told us there were 8 that apparently were able to regulate their situation. There's only 79 left. We note that at least 58 have requested the regularization of their nuclei. You spoke to some who resolved it favourably. I can speak to you about others, like Nigrán, who asked for 18 nuclei and who were recognized 2 and denied 16; others like Vilanova, the island of Arousa, The Grove or Fene, in which they were all denied, and about forty others and so many today we don't know what the situation is. We have asked for information in the Spanish Parliament, so far that information has not been answered. We're probably not going to be answered, because this legislation is going to end apparently on October 23, and it's very likely that we won't be answered before. But the question is: with this which would be regulated immediately and so easily, how is it possible that there are now so many difficulties? I'm going to tell you about some of the problems that are going on, one of the problems where there was a big mistake, and that you sold it to the entire citizenry – and here they said, even I didn't have much discussion with a senator of the People's Party who was convinced that this had been approved. You tabled an amendment, which was also approved by this Parliament, which said that these nuclei had to meet one of two requirements: either a level of building consolidation or having all the services available. What happened was that in Madrid the "o" was changed by a "y", and you have to have both conditions, both of building consolidation and of having all the services available. But it doesn't end there. In addition, they are demanding that both requirements be satisfied with the date of the year 1988. Not with current date, but with all services already in 1988, and that's one of the causes of the problem. Approximately 50% of the nuclei of those who have applied for regularization in Spain are in Galicia. We don't know how it's going to evolve because they still have eighteen months to solve since the end of the deadline, and that means today there's still 14 or 15 months left to finish. Of course, it wasn't fast. Of course, we have no choice but to understand that the Counsellor, his predecessor, lied when he said here that the Galician Union and that the Autonomic Administration had the last word - and that's evidence - in relation to industrial deployments. Of course, he didn't tell the truth when he spoke about the immediate regularization of those 8,000 homes. I'm afraid Mr. López Veiga lied, or at least he didn't tell the truth, when he said he couldn't contemplate the island's exceptionality because the Ministry of the Environment doesn't want to open doors in the tourist areas. When, in fact, Formentera, Ampuriabrava, Santa Pola, Illa Cristina, those are tourist areas much more than the island of Arousa, where they live permanently in 7 square kilometers. I have to think that either I was lying or I was immeasurably bewildered to Mrs. General Secretary of Urbanism when she said that with an immediate character and absolutely simple way, with a simple communication, it would fix the traditional cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u272	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u273	And now, three months from the general election, when you come to promise us that everything will be fixed now, the question is, why should we believe it, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo. Mrs. Ethel Vázquez has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u275	Thank you, I got a tooth. Mr. Bugallo, the Board, as you know, intervened to achieve an amendment to a regulation, an amendment to the Back Law, which, of course, was a new way to regulate this historical demand for more than twenty-five years ago, so that the municipalities could regulate. But these are procedures, from there on, that are the Ministry and the Town Councils. It was the responsibility of the municipalities to send directly to the Ministry the technical reports that believed the persistence of these cores, without the participation of the Board in those files. The participation we had directly in the Marin Town Hall because he asked for it. Of course, we can't help those municipalities that don't ask for it, so I use it to make a call that we are at the disposal of all the municipalities to offer them the best technical advice and, of course, technical support to solve these situations. And of course, it's a complex issue, it's a complex issue, and that's why I say we're available to the municipalities. It is undeniable that the amendment of the Back Law provided a unique opportunity to solve this problem. Because, as I've just said, it's not a new problem, and you know it, Your Honor, it's a problem we've been dragging for over twenty-five years. And he had to arrive this government of Spain to offer solutions and offer alternatives. And that's thanks to this legislative reform driven by this government. The Government of the State knew how to understand, understand and care for these peculiarities of the Greek people, and twenty-five years later we have a new way, with this new Law of Back, to regulate this urban situation of the homes of many families and the way of living of many Greeks. That way I have to say that it has satisfactory results, we have the example of the Marin Town Hall. I believe that there is no need to underestimate in any case, Marín, Baiona, Muros, municipalities that have applied for the reduction of the protection servitude, and that recognize these rural nuclei on equal terms as urban soil. And they found that their general plans – I insist – are a fundamental basis for achieving this. These aren't the only municipalities. There are also other nuclei that have succeeded. In the municipality of Gondomar, Nigrán and Rosal, they also obtained positive results. Of course, at Galician Junta we are convinced that the best way is what Marín, Walls and Baiona did. It's the best way and the best example, through general plans. But, of course, I don't get it wrong. Of course there is work to be done, there is work to be done, and the municipalities concerned must continue to take steps to achieve maximum profitability and make the most of this opportunity given to us by this new Back Law, a work in which, of course, they will continue to count on the maximum willingness and collaboration of the Galician Union. Because even though the autonomous communities – you know – do not have directly competences in those files, in the Union we are involved and we want to continue to collaborate, accompany and support the local administrations that are asking for it, of course. The involvement of the Union is manifest with various meetings that we are holding with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, and with the Directorate-General of Coastal Affairs, meetings that we will continue to have, seeking to achieve the maximum number of regularized cores. As I said, on September 1st, I had a meeting with the Secretary of State and the Director General of Coast, looking for solutions so that we can be part of the open processes and provide the best technical advice. The intention of Junta is to go on a case-by-case basis. I say again that we make ourselves available to the municipalities that we are asking for, because that's the most reliable way. And in advance, Your Honor, these aspects will focus on the next meeting, which will be this Friday, September 18th in Madrid. A technical team from Cunta de Galicia with another technical team from the Ministry will discuss these issues in Madrid to address the issue and move towards regularizing more cores of our coastline. Our goal is to continue to deepen in this matter, to seek the maximum coordination between administrations – which is essential –, to provide advice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u276	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u277	...and offer solutions, which are achieved with work, with involvement, with constancy and with determination of all. I tell you, Mr. Bugallo, that we're on time, we're still on time, and the Union I think it's where it has to be, offering maximum collaboration to each of our Greek municipalities who want to work to achieve this goal of regularizing the cores of the Greek coast. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u278	Thank you. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 8 of questions to the Government. Question by Mr Gonzalo Trenor López and eight other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the measures being taken by the Government of Greece to cooperate in the response to the humanitarian crisis in the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u279	Mr. Trenor has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u280	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is currently facing a humanitarian challenge with the displacement of thousands of Syrians fleeing war, hunger, poverty and genocide. More and more are those who die in the desperate attempt to escape political or religious persecution. More and more people come to our countries looking for a space of security, freedom and respect for human rights. Since the beginning of the armed conflict – and we have been at war for more than four years – millions of people have left their homes, more than 11 million people. Most of them, moved within their own country; and more than 4 million, outside their borders. This crisis is a complex crisis and it has various causes, and we play a decisive role in its solution and before which we have to give answers, responses to the political and economic agenda, but also in the humanitarian agenda. Answers that oblige all Europe, all Spaniards and, therefore, all Greeks. Serious and supportive responses, and also coordinated, fleeing from electoralisms, populisms and those nationalisms that want to lift the new sheets of steel. We have a first challenge, since we are, above all, defined by the UN Refugee Agency, in a crisis resulting from the arrival of the largest number of refugees in decades, perhaps the largest number of refugees since World War II. The Greeks have always been a people of solidarity and have also counted on the solidarity of other peoples, but it is not only for a question of historical gratitude and not for calming our conscience, it is fundamentally because we want to be part of the solution. For us it is a moral obligation, and we want to act decisively. Determination that the president has already shown, that he has put forward an offer of assistance and facilities, a determination shown by you, that he is working on a welcoming plan, and determination also shown by other officials from different local administrations, non-governmental organizations, families, who have communicated his willingness to collaborate on the necessary device to set in motion for the reception of refugees. Can you, Counsellor, put forward the measures you have taken and are taking the Government of Greece to cooperate in the response to this humanitarian crisis? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u282	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you said, and you said well, by describing the exceptional situation that the European Union is experiencing in this matter, which is, if it is possible, the greatest human exodus that has existed since the Second World War, and which therefore needs a united attention and special attention from the European Union. We must, of course, contribute to the European Union, precisely what was in its beginnings, in its origin, which is more union but also, it is up to itself, more humanitarian, which is how this European Union was born. And above all, besides talking about the needs that people may need right now in this exodus, we should also talk about how to address this problem from their source. But, as you said, Galicia cannot be, nor is it, apart from this situation of human emergency and social emergency, we cannot and do not want to stand by this drama that lives thousands and thousands of people who are fleeing from a war conflict. And in the face of this humanitarian emergency situation, the Galician Union offered an immediate response, an answer that was quick, would be and above all solidarity to offer it to the Spanish State, and the resources which from this administration guarantee attention that is agile, but above all, and most importantly, worthy attention to the families of refugees who could reach Spain and which could therefore also reach Galicia. That is why we were the first community to be made available to the state, which is the only one that has the competences to, in a coordinated way, offer the best answer. It's important to keep in mind that we talk about asylum, talk about refugees, it's not the same as talking about immigration. Asylum policy is a specialized national policy, and therefore the central government is the only competent to pilot that coordinated response that the country has to give. Still, in the German Government we've been working around for weeks to put in place a proper reception plan, anticipating requests that we're sure the central government will make. It's not, as you know very well, just to welcome, we're not talking about offering housing, we're not talking about offering economic aid, which, too, but, above all, continuing with the next step, which is integrating, which is an important facet as much as welcoming, since these people at the moment they arrive in Spain will be Spanish and Germans of full right, and will have access to all the rights that we have both the Spaniards and the Greeks. In these two weeks we've been taking steps that I think are essential to articulate this strategy. We offer the 300 squares in our residences and hostels. We could offer more if needed, and of course also make these facilities transit facilities, in a temporary way, as advised by NGOs working with refugees, to try to integrate them into our society in the fastest way. And that's why we also set up a volunteer program that accompanies at that moment of reception, especially to remove language barriers and social barriers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Trenor's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u284	Yes, ladies. Counsellor, we must congratulate the Greeks as a society, for, in the face of the emergency situation of incalculable dimensions, we could not remain with our arms crossed or impassable because of the dramatic consequences of the war that has lasted for four years, and we were the first community to offer ourselves to the central government to help in this crisis. As you well say, it is not only about welcoming and providing the most basic services, but also about integrating, precisely, the complexity of this crisis. And we can't neglect any help. You highlight collaboration, planning and unifying efforts. There have been many offers and there is a need to articulate a strategy that collects the approaches of all those involved, as you are doing. Summarizing efforts among all of you, the Self-Government, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the non-governmental organizations, the families' organizations, and, of course, the volunteers'. Can you, Counsellor, specify what kind of resources would be included in that plan? Can you also, Counselor, tell us what phases this plan is going to be divided into? And, please, can you also tell us when we're going to have a first knowledge of the resources that are going to integrate that plan? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u285	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u286	The situation you're living in, unfortunately, is not a timely situation. It's not a situation that's going to accompany us for a month, not even a year. It's a situation that will be with us over the next few years, so responsible governments' answers have to be not only for now, but, of course, we have to guarantee this response in the coming years. That is why, within the Autonomous Community, we believe it is necessary to pilot, from the Government of Galicia, a work team that is born with a vocation of permanence – i.e. not only for today, but for the next few years – in which various departments of the Galician Union participate, such as health, education and well-being, infrastructure, cooperation and, of course, also, Fegamp and NGOs, precisely to articulate this strategy that gives an agile response to all the resources, programmes and support that we can bring from the Autonomous Community to the State Administration. I want to acknowledge the joint work, I want to bring thanks to the different institutions that, while not yet in this working group, such as the College of Psychologists, the College of Dentologists, even the College of Lawyers, have offered their collaboration. And I also want to make the most of the recognition of the solidarity of the Greek families, which have brought different resources and offers, through their abilities and also, of course, of the municipalities. The sum of our efforts, the sum of all our efforts, serenely and coordinated, piloted by those who have to fly them, is the only one who can really guarantee that quick, axile and dignified solution that needs this humanitarian crisis. That's why this answer we asked the municipalities from the Government of Galicia and asked NGOs as well. Today they had time to present those resources to us. Communications are already being received from Fegamp from all the resources the municipalities are making available, so the day is not finished yet, so I don't want to talk about exact figures because the communications from Fegamp are still coming from all the resources that are making available to this coordination. Of course, NGOs are also putting their capacities on the table to – I insist – give that welcome sheet and, after that welcome sheet, give that integration sheet that we should lend from this Autonomous Community. I intend to come in this Parliament to take good account of all the steps taken, not only within Galicia, but also in conjunction with the State, since we have been invited to participate in the meeting in the Ministry of Labour to try to coordinate these actions precisely. We will be aware of all the steps we are taking as the Autonomous Community, but go ahead with my greatest thanks to all the municipalities, all the entities, all the NGOs and also all the families who have made available their resources and capacities to meet this human tragedy that is undermining the European Union and which, of course, needs solidarity from all of us. I'm convinced that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u287	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u288	...this joint and coordinated effort...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u289	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u290	...will give the result we all expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u291	Next question. Question from Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Mixed on the training offer at the Integrated Centre for Training in Portovello, Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u292	You have the word, Mrs Iglesias, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u293	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The order of June 11, 2015, of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, reduces the educational offer of the Centro Portovello de Ourense, eliminating the presence of adults in the Higher Cycle of Child Education and in the Middle Cycle of Care for Persons in Dependency Situation. The supply in the Management and Finance Cycle is also reduced. The Higher Cycle of Child Education was fully consolidated, and in consolidation or Care Cycles in Dependency. The aforementioned studies maintain a large enrolment rate and achieve a high employability index. More than 90% of students enrolled in previous courses work today, they currently work. Ourense will be the only one in the Galician provinces that will not have a complete offer of the three modalities of FP: ordinary, face-to-face adults and adults at a distance. Once again, Counsellor, the province of Ourense is relegated and discriminated against by the Government, in a model of a country with a serious territorial imbalance. Now the adult student interested in these studies can only formalize the enrollment in distance mode. This makes it difficult to complete or to complete the cycles, which implies the loss of job opportunities in a province with great social and health needs, the older ones in the state and the few job opportunities in the country. I ask you the following question, above,: What reasons justify the reduction in the education offer in the Higher Cycle of Child Education and in the Middle Cycle of Care for Persons in a Dependency Situation in the Ourense Centre? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u294	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u295	Good afternoon, Madam President. Madam, allow me to give you an initial thought. You speak of reduction, you speak of cutting, you speak of lower offer to Ourense, and I think your approach is absolutely false. It's just backwards, I'd say it's fair the opposite, and I'll explain it. There was, yes, a reorganization of the academic offer in this school in this cycle. And there was a concerted reorganization, both with the central management teams and with the inspection services. And in that reorganization, the result of it is that there is more education for the city and for Ourense. There are over 55 public squares, there are more training cycles for the city and the province, and there is a greater diversification of the offer. And I'm going to give a minimal explanation because I see that maybe some Members don't know the background. That is, you're talking about two cycles, the Higher Cycle of Child Education and the Middle Cycle of Care for Persons in Dependency Situation, which have an education offer tomorrow and afternoon. Well, in that reorganization, what was proposed was that both cycles, the Higher Childhood Education and the Middle Persons Care Cycle in Dependency Situation, were only in the morning, and in the afternoon they made other cycles and planned to compensate for a distance or semi-presenceal offer. And in compensation, or thanks to this, what made the center increase two new cycles, two cycles that there was neither in the city nor in the province; one is the Higher Cycle of Sociocultural Animation and Tourism and one is the Higher Cycle of International Trade. That is, it increases and diversifys the educational offer. And by the way, the students running these cycles in the afternoon didn't have any kind of problem; many of them went through the morning and others are doing it in the distance regime. With which, the summary of this reform, this restructuring, was: more educational squares, more training cycles, more supply and greater diversification of supply in cycles, both medium and upper cycle. With which, really, we don't understand very well the alarm generated at the moment and we don't understand very well as if you're capable of trying to transfer to citizenship, something that's positive to the education system, as something negative. I repeat, more public squares, 55 more; more formative cycles, diversified cycles and an increase in educational supply in the city of Ourense. And above all, the second basic vocational training course, with which, really, we're talking about a substantial improvement to the system, and we regret that you, of something positive, are trying to move an image that is negative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u296	Replica from Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u297	Thank you, President. Counselor, who do you want to fool? The teachers' collective and the management team are against this measure. Moreover, they went to speak to the mayor, the former Councillor of Culture, and he offered to transfer the problem to the board, when the function of a mayor I say that it is not to move, for that there are other administrative channels. Besides, Counselor, it gives exactly the same as the offer in the distance regime is greater than the presence, which diversifys the offer and increases the squares; that doesn't matter. This new offer of distance courses, in the cycle of attention to dependence and sociocultural animation, is an account of the elimination of other studies. I mean, that better is a lie. Besides those who get deleted, Counselor, they're offering you in a private center, a private center that's not even in agreement. Besides, Counsellor, you are not aware of it, because a large number of victims who have joined the studies on the deleted track are in a state of unemployment; they can't go to their personal circumstances in the mornings, they're bigger and come from the rural environment many of them, and they cost them. I mean, they had a schedule that was very suitable for this situation. And he's also a student who lacks digital skills and own resources to take a distance course. You intend to apply that principle more than you assume, to do more with less, and the result translates into this kind of political action. Because I repeat, the cost of the new courses will be zero at the level of teachers. Why? Because the teacher who taught these other courses that you delete...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u298	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro speaks words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. You have the floor for the reply of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u299	Thank you very much. Madam, you will understand that I don't want or can fool anyone, I don't want or can. When I talk about the fact that there's more educational supply there I'm not fooling, there's more than 55 new public squares; when I'm talking about greater supply and greater diversification, I'm talking about two new higher cycles, one of international trade and one of tourism and sociocultural animation that there was neither in the city nor in Ourense. And when I'm talking about the offer being maintained, I'm talking about the offer in the morning and the afternoon, it moved in the morning, and now a lot of the students in the afternoon settled in the morning and the other side do it the distance. That's not fooling anyone, Madam. I think you generated a riot around this subject that really doesn't have much receipt. You quote the mayor. You understand perfectly that each administration has its own powers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The competence of the Galician Union is to organize and plan the academic offer, in this case for better because the academic offer has been significantly improved. You will understand that in this case what is proposed is a solution that has been spoken and that has been agreed with the management teams and inspection services without any problems. I beg you, ma'am, to report well, because if you're not somehow deceiving yourself or trying to deceive your citizenship. I think the data we've been presenting is absolutely objective data: more supply, more supply diversification and also enrich basic vocational training. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think those are absolutely objective data. And really what we don't really understand very well is why there is or why there was this urge to try to convert something that is positive for students, for the city of Ourense and for the province of Ourense, with two higher cycles that there was previously and that now there are, at no time, the pre-existing offer, giving way also to the second cycle of basic vocational training and increasing the normal degrees into something negative. We really don't understand it, beyond the attempt to generate an alarmism without greater foundation. In any case, as I told you, I believe that the city of Ourense and its province, with this reform and with this internal reorganization, has significantly improved its educational offer, and we think that in this case there are objective data: more squares, more cycles, two new higher cycles and greater diversification of the offer, which, as a whole, is good for the city and is good for the province. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the action of the Galician Council regarding the complaint regarding discrimination regarding the use of the Greek language by a user of the summer camp organized by the Centro Hipico Casas Nouvelles, de Arteixo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u301	You have the word of Mrs. Pontón to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u302	Thank you very much, Madam President. "You explain yourself so badly that I don't understand you. I just don't understand how you talk. If I speak to you in Spanish, your obligation is to speak to me in Spanish. Here we all speak Spanish and you have to speak Spanish." Counselor, these are some of the phrases that he had to endure a 10-year-old girl in a hip camp organized in a center that is the Hip Center New Art Houses. I'm a sample, ladies and gentlemen, of the abuse you've subjected to a minor for using our language. In the complaint made by this minor's mother, she explains that this child lived for a week this situation, which caused him great psychological damage, which he felt continually despised and humiliated. In a public interview that I'm sure you've read, the mother says: "The first day I was delighted that she liked the subject of horses. It's very extraverted. But on the second day, I came from a fallen layer. I had paid two weeks and I agreed not to continue the course." You also tell us, Counselor, that the girl's mother has moved the problem that they were creating to her daughter to the leaders of this center, and that the answer they have from whom they run this institution is: It doesn't matter. You have to understand that not everyone here speaks Galician. It's because they don't understand it. I also consider it important to clarify, because this mother brought me here when I spoke to her, who at no time asked her – as she could – to speak in English to her daughter, simply asked them to stop discriminateting and mistreating her daughter for using the Greek language. We know that the center indirectly recognizes the problem, even if it doesn't want to do it officially, and that, in any case, what you tried is to put under the carpet this discrimination, cover this problem. But, fortunately, there are many brave people who are willing to denounce humiliations and who are not willing to abide with resignation the discrimination suffered by the Greek language. It seems to us, of course, that this is an important gesture because it ends with the silence of that discrimination that exists and that many people accept in a submissive and silent way. There are complaints before the Valedor, before the Union, before consumption, but, Counsellor, today what we want to know is, before such serious facts, where he humiliates a minor for speaking in Greek, which you will do. And above all, Counselor, who will do so that no one else, no child or child in this country, must feel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u303	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you very much. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u304	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam, our political responsibility, and I also tell you, our personal responsibility, is that no person in Galicia suffers any kind of abuse, speaking in English or speaking in Spanish. That he does not suffer any kind of abuse or discrimination. And we would also like – and I also say – to say that this was the same in all autonomous communities where there are co-official languages, we would also. And in some cases we've seen through the means that you can even crack for asking for education in one of the two official languages in some autonomous community. I believe that this is our political and personal responsibility, and I am sure that you too share it, that no one ever feels discriminated against or excluded by choosing to speak one language or another in total freedom. Having said this, you bring here the debate a question, a complaint, which came out in the media this summer. It is true that there has been a complaint, which has been transferred through the Bureau by linguistic normalization. The General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy also received this complaint, or this complaint, on July 27, reached this event during a summer camp for children in the Hip Center of New Houses of Artexo. This department, I think, very diligently, the next day, on July 28, sends a letter to the camp organizers. They obviously ask you for detailed information about the facts that have been reported; they remind you of the legislation that exists in linguistics, especially, in relation to non-discrimination on the basis of language; and of course they offer you all the collaboration of the Autonomic Administration in the task of normalizing the Greek language, making it easier for this hip center to provide all kinds of resources and tools to complete this work of normalization. Besides, obviously, in this writing too, the General Secretariat tells him and warns him that, if these allegations are true, it would be a violation of the linguistic rights which, obviously, is aggravated by the fact that he is a child, a 10-year-old. And you are also told that, if the success is confirmed, the centre is asked to take the appropriate action to rectify this situation. The hip center has also answered us, I suppose you will also have the answer through the table. Well, this answer comes on August 25th. The center denies that there was a violation of the linguistic rights of any of its users, and – and we still understand, I don't know if you know the answer, but what I can tell you and I read textually is that it's a wrong interpretation of the facts and that in no case has discriminated against or looked down on anyone. In any case, by the center, there was a greater willingness to dialogue with the people affected, and also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u305	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u306	...to a certain extent, we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u307	Thank you very much. [[The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order pronounces words which are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u308	Counselor, I have here in my hand Institutional standards of Galicia, which you say you respect. And in these rules, the Autonomy Statute says in Article 5: "No one can be discriminated against because of the language. The English and Spanish languages are official. Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of both languages and enhance the use of Welsh." We have a law of linguistic normalization that says, "Galiza's public authorities will take the necessary measures to ensure that no one is discriminated against on the basis of language." And if you would listen to me, Counselor, I would ask that this time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u309	Mrs. Pontón, continue your question. The counsellor is listening to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u310	Madam President, it seems to me a very great disrespect that when we are responding to a debate... it seems to me very well, but as this you want to become an absolute parity, let me not accept that a counselor does not listen when we are talking about such a serious matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because I'm telling you there's a legislation, Counselor, that compels you to act. There is a law that has passed its party, which says in support of Galicia's family and coexistence, that in its article 42 it speaks of the rights of special protection of children and adolescents, setting out in letter k) the right to express themselves in their own language, of origin or of free choice, and not to be discriminated against on the basis of it. His answer is that, in the face of a violation of fundamental rights, his counsellor only does he write a letter in which he accepts the version of the epic center. Did they alert the Social Affairs Adviser because they were violating a minor's fundamental rights? Did they open a serious investigation? Did they talk to the family? Did they respond to the demand that the family filed with the Galician Consumer Institute, because there is also a violation of their rights as a consumer? How many more laws do you want me to tell you and quote you to hurt and ignore? We ask you not to come here to talk about Catalonia or any other place, but to come here to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u311	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pntón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Mrs. Pontón! Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Pontón. Mrs. Pontón, you have a call to order! [[Murmurs.]] Time's up. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, would you like a second call to order? [[Applause]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u312	Mrs. Pontón, I am a spokesperson for all my life, for all my life, and I am sure that a great majority of these Members of the People's Party are Welsh and have the Greek... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u313	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u314	...as his mother tongue. I think you think there are first and second Greeks here, from your point of view. You're first, and the rest have us... we have to apologize for being the People's Party or speaking in English. [[Murmurs.]] Because really, really... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u315	Quiet, please. [[Protests.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Jorquera, I don't think you're intervening in this question. If you want to intervene... Mr. Jorquera, the councillor is speaking. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Respect the role of the advisor. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u316	I'm in the same respect that the spokesman for the Nationalist Block asked you to do so when he's talking to a member of the government, who doesn't interrupt. I ask them to do the same. I don't think it's very difficult either. I don't think it's very difficult either. [[Applause]] In any case, we are also glad, Mrs. Pontón, that you rely on the Statute of Self-Government. The People's Party knows him very well because he voted in favour of him. This party knows the Statute of autonomy very well because it has voted in favour of it, and others cannot say the same thing, even if they now resort to it. In any case, we're talking about an administration, and an administration shouldn't be a judge and part, it shouldn't be a judge and part. [[Murmurs.]] I think Mrs. Pontón in the first intervention was given a technical and rigorous answer. And there was a rather agile response in administrative action. Now, if you give as proof one part and you don't give the other part, obviously we're not judges to have to investigate. With which, really, Mrs. Pontón, I think there you are giving reason to one side and not to the other. We have opened a file, which must be opened, the corresponding administrative file. We take note of the complaint. We request and receive information and we understand that the situation has been clarified by the parties themselves. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do we have to do? What we have to do, as I told you at first, is to ensure that no one is discriminated against or is injured by the use of one language or another. And we also understand that the defense of the language itself, which obviously each one has his own way of doing, and each one shares a different way of doing it, must be done through positive actions. It's not worth it, we understand that it's not worth a political debate in a negative... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u317	Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u318	...which, rather than benefit, harms the Greek. Of course, this girl, like anyone else who is being violated in her rights by these issues, what she has to do is defend her rights. Now, there are established legal frameworks, there are established legal frameworks, and we must not give truth to one question or another. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And I always say, Mrs. Pontón, I always say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u319	Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u320	...that it's time for us to start talking positively about Greek, if we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u321	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u322	...work what unites us and not what stops us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u323	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment by the Government of the progress made in the past two years in the protection of the Ways of Santiago
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u324	You have the word, Mr. Baamonde, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, let's see if we can regain parliamentary tranquillity by talking about the Way. Counsellor, knowing that from the moment that in the place called Campus Stellae has been discovered the sarth that contained the remnants of the Apostle Santiago, at least according to the version of these facts gives the Christian tradition, the truth is that the constant and progressive transit of pilgrims has turned the Compostela, along with Rome and Jerusalem, into one of the essential cities of Christendom. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And at the same time, fulfilling the saying in the verses of the poet who makes his way on the floor, he also turned Santiago's Way into a phenomenon of universal transcendence. It's not our intention, logically, to talk about the transcendence of the Way, but to take advantage of that transcendence to address the absolutely necessary issue of the safety of the road in conservation, security, infrastructure, etc. Therefore, and considering on the one hand that the Way of Santiago, above all things, constitutes a cultural heritage of immense and incalculable value; on the other hand, that the Law 3/1996, of protection of the Ways of Santiago, identifies as such the French Way, the Portuguese, the Silver Route, the North, in the double understanding of the Costa and the Primitive, those of Fisterra and the Arousa and Ulla sea route, and that it also includes all the documented historical routes, in the light of what the request has been made even in this chamber of recognition of the so-called "Winter Way", our concern will be directed to the protection of that heritage value that represents the Way. And, therefore, the question we ask you will be addressed, Counsellor, to find out what is the assessment of the Government of Galician Union regarding the recognition of the conservation of the routes that make up the Way of Santiago. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u326	Thank you. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order Don Román Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u327	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, all the Greeks want the Way, for everyone, it is a symbol of identity and a first-order heritage and cultural resource, and it is part of our history and our tradition. In the long history of the Way, in the secular history of our Way, in the contemporary period there is a singular milestone, there is a singular date, which marks a turning point for the Way, which is 1993. In this year, in the year 93, the Government of that time presided over by Mr. Fraga posed an integral strategy of promotion, of value, of dissemination to the general public, of which is the Way of Santiago. From there, there is a substantial, very substantial change in everything that has to do with the Way, there is a spiral of growth, consolidation, dissemination of values and the potential of the Path. And the Galician Union has always had its way as a reference in its political action, both in the legal and other fields. In the juridical issue it was in the year 96 a government in this case of the People's Party who set in motion the Road Protection Act. He's currently also reforming the Heritage Law to have a new heritage law where Santiago's roads obviously have a preferred place, as it cannot be otherwise for a well-sovereign for Galicia as is the Way of Santiago. It's also deep into management instruments. The current government has laid down the delimitations and approved the delimitations of the different paths, issues that have a great transcendence because they set the historical truth of the path plot and also have urban consequences on the use of the Path. In 2011, the French Way, in the year 12 the Primitive Way, all the roads of the city of Compostela in the year 13, the English Way in the year 14, the North Road, the coast, the 14 also. And you are currently working on the delimitation of the Portuguese roads in your variants, where also, with the advances we have made at the level of technical studies, we count, at the end of October or the beginning of November, already starting the meeting with the municipalities to enter the delimitation file of the Portuguese Way in their different variants. And we've also planned for the following year to plan and open the studies for the delimitation of the Silver Route, or the Mozarab Way, and also of the Forest Road. Besides, this work has a recognition, it has a recognition. It is the case of UNESCO's classifications, both for the French Way at its moment, which I assumed one before and one after the Way as the heritage of humanity, as very recently for the North Way in its two variants, on the coast, which enters by Ribadeo, and in the primitive and inner, which enters by the Background, which reaches the 24 Town Councils they received just a few months ago also the recognition of UNESCO, the highest recognition by UNESCO, as the heritage of humanity. Obviously, this recognition is not casual, there's no chance, there's a lot of work behind many people, institutions, many years old...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u328	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u329	...there's a good technical job and of course there's also a great...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u330	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Applause]] Mr. Baamonde's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u331	Thank you very much, Counselor. What you just said, I would stress especially two circumstances: one of joy and pleasure, which is international recognition towards the roads, uniquely the recognition made by UNESCO as a world heritage in respect of the North and Primitive roads; and another aspect that would underline, by the transcendence it represents, is the reference that you made to the future law of cultural heritage as an opportunity to empower and dynamize the paths of Santiago. We believe that, indeed, this latter possibility opens up an important expectation, in the matter of a law which will soon be in parliamentary office. What we would be interested in would be to know, if possible, more often how it will be crafted or how you can articulate through that law of cultural heritage the protection of Santiago's roads. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u333	Thank you, honourable Member. I think we all share that contemporary Galicia is not understood without the Way, the roads of Galicia, the roads of Santiago. It's a substantial part of Galicia, and Galicia because it's the Way. And the truth that's been done a lot since the year 93 down here. What was the Way before 93 and what is the Way today? I believe that the Way transcends the spiritual character, which is the origin of the Way itself, and adopts enormous potential from the economic point of view and above all a significant transcendence to the territories through which it passes. We are mainly talking about rural municipalities, where the road is an economic potential, is a very unique economic opportunity. And I think that's why we have to keep working on protecting the Way. Even if you've done a lot, there's a lot to do, there's a lot to do. And we have a legal instrument in place, in this case the new heritage law, which has as its objective, as one of the basic foundations, because it enhances protection, enhances conservation, enhances awareness and also enhances the value of the Way as a structural element of contemporary Galicia, as a value in itself and with a very important transcendence even beyond the cultural and heritage sphere, also in the social and economic sphere. We are working so that this period of sessions now open can enter Parliament, it can be deposited in Parliament, because the text so that the different political groups can also contribute with their positive contributions to improve a law. And in that sense we also open up and call on the groups to adopt a proactive and positive view of the new heritage law which, as we have already said, has as its fundamental objectives protecting the Way. Obviously, the recognition of the Way and the effort we make by the Greeks to improve and enhance the Way is not a unique and exclusive issue of the Autonomic Administration, I said before. The North Road, without going further, is the result of the work of many private people, of many scholars, of many institutions, of many organizations, of many technicians who have also been working on it, also of the action of the Autonomic Administration, which in recent years has made an investment in the important improvement of these roads. Since 2009, more than 12 million euros have been invested in improving the northern road map. And we also have important instruments that are working and empowering the Way of Santiago; without going further, for example, the Advisory Committee of the Way of Santiago. I believe that in that sense all that is done and all that we are doing from the administration and from the whole of society to improve the Way, to enhance the Path and to put the Way as a structural and vertebral axis of our Galicia because it is little, because, let's say, to a classical phrase that is usually said, not only Galicia but also Europe has been built, in part, thanks to the Way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u334	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Beatriz Sestayo Doce and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the consideration by the Board of Galicia of the risks that could have for the population of Ferrol and the municipalities of Ares, Mugardos, Narón and Fene the supply of drinking water
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u335	Mrs. Sestayo has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Well, today we bring here one of the crises that have occurred in the water in Ferrol and that affects the responsibility of the Galician Union, the numerous advisors, among them the health department, which I suppose will be the one who will answer me. On 16 July, indeed, there was a telephone call in Ferrol, together with a fax from the territorial delegate, which reports on the need to restrict drinking water consumption in Ferrol, since there is a high-profile warning of trihalometans in drinking water that obliges them to suspend, as I say, their consumption. The territorial delegate – this is 16th Thursday – says they'll talk about it on Monday. Therefore, four days would pass without drinking water after giving the news that affected drinking water in five municipalities in the province, therefore, a supramunitarian area as regards, in addition to regulatory competence. And the Health Council, in this case with competence in the field of public health, in addition to those which granted it the Galician Water Law, the local regime as well as the Autonomy Statute, was inhibited by any kind of competition. During all the days of the crisis, the Health Council was absent. The first day of the crisis was the time to know the existence of trihalomethanes, the presence of a high level of trihalomethanes, and the Council of Health and the Council of Galicia were asked to attend that crisis committee. The answer from the Galician Council was that it wasn't necessary, that it wasn't urgent and that it wouldn't be. Indeed, that same day is a crisis cabinet with all the municipalities affected by the river, with the presence of technicians from the companies that manage the water, but not from the Health Council, which does not act as an appearance until Sunday 19 in which it comes to insult only, that is, the members of the Government, something that does also in front of the media, of what there is record. Meanwhile, Counsellor Rueda stated that there was no risk to the population; therefore, it was not necessary for him to act on the board of Galicia. And there was no risk to the population despite the words of the illustrious spokesperson of the People's Party of Galicia who in a twitter – which Mr. Santalices was so concerned about – warned that the Government of Ferrol was poisoning the population of Ferrol. This was said by the spokesperson, and is the record of screenshots and postings... Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u337	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo, your time is up. You're not recording the question, Mrs. Sestayo. [[Applause]] The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u338	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Mrs. Sestayo. Ask yourself why there is a risk for the health of the population of Ferrol and the other municipalities affected. The truth is, I think you have already clearly explained it to the Director General of Innovation and Public Health Management last Friday, but I just want to tell you that, in the case you occupy us, the source or cause of the problem seems to be in the existence of organic material beyond the usual in the water that feeds the potabilizing plant from the bottle of the Forcadas. This forced more chlorine to be used for its positability, which led to an increase in trihalomethanes. In response to the concern about the possible adverse effects of these products, of trihalomethanes, they are all regulated legally, and they are classified as possible cancers by the International Cancer Search and Results Agency. What this classification indicates is that there's some evidence that they can cause cancer in humans, but they're far from conclusive; otherwise, they're in another type of classification. Therefore, there is no evidence that a short exposure to levels that publish, at the prescribed limit, poses an immediate risk to health. However, the European Directive, the directive of the European Commission, on the basis of a precautionary principle governing all these areas of health protection, states that the maximum permissible threshold is 100 milligrams per litre, which requires that the waters that exceed these limits are not suitable or drinking. Having said that, I can't accept that the Health Council and its technicians were absent either. Look, on June 13 at 14.35, the Joint Ferrol Water Company, Emafesa, which is a joint venture with 51% of the Ferrol Council and 49% of the Urbassar company, through a fax, communicates to the Council, through its territorial head, that there is a change in these water limits that is being consumed in the councils of Ferrol, Narón, Fene and Mugardos, because the limits are above these 100, specifically in 185 micrograms per litre. And he also reports that within fifteen days, perhaps he will set up the right limits to return to the limits of less than 100, and he proposes not to communicate anything to citizens. Obviously, the territorial boss tells him that he disagrees with either of the two decisions and that it is necessary to put in place actions to reverse these limits and, of course, to communicate it to the citizens. And on the 16th is when, in view of the fact that the company is really not doing anything, it informs mayors that they have to take action.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u339	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor to Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u340	Yes, Counselor. The truth is, he didn't answer anything. Look, the truth is that the Health Council was not present – I insist – in the crisis office, something obvious of what there is sufficient documentation – even visual and graphic –, was not present until the last day. The fact is that the Galician Water Act, Law 9/2010, first of all, enshrines within the principles of coordination and cooperation with the public administrations involved in water, the right of information and transparency, in Article 4, the adoption and measures of additional protection and water resources and ecosystems; by the way, of what you were talking about, but you can see that neither the potitating plant nor EDAR, – of which we will speak fundamentally in this Parliament –, the debugger station that didn't work, we don't know whether you know about the Board or its passivity, but that's another matter. Well, it doesn't look like you were actually watching the high presence of organic matter either. But in addition, Article 4 also provides for the need, on the part of the Galician Union, for the powers to establish extraordinary measures in case of necessity to ensure the supply of water, Madam Counsellor. We are talking about 150,000 inhabitants who have been without drinking water, and without prejudice to the barbarity of the spokesperson for the People's Party – which we are already used to – about poisoning, which undoubtedly shows an inability to assume responsibilities, the fact is that, in any case, you were not present within the legislative competence of the Council of Galicia, Counsellor. Even so, within the Emergency Act there is the competence of the Galician Board in those emergency managements that exceed the means of response that each local entity has. Even so, they're also intermediaries with respect to other administrations, as we've had from the Town Hall, to ensure defense assistance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u341	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo. Mrs. Sestayo, your time is up. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I'm sorry. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u342	Look, ma'am, who turned a technical problem into a political problem was the mayor of Ferrol. I myself, in one of the conversations I had with him, I told him that I had two responsibilities: one as president of the water management company and one as mayor responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u343	Mrs. Sestayo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u344	...of the quality of the water supplied. And offerinl and the collaboration of Territorial Xefature technicians because they needed support to support the decisions they had made. Look, throughout this summer, like almost every summer, in many municipalities of our geography, our autonomous community, there were water problems, and all the mayors fulfilled their responsibilities. Look: "A spill leaves Malpic without drinking water for 30 hours. The mayor communicates a failure of Malica's betrayal."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u345	Mrs. Sestayo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u346	All the mayors took responsibility and, actually, the mayor of Ferrol, neither as president of the company nor as mayor, assumed his responsibilities... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u347	Mrs. Sestayo, I'll call you to order. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo, you're taking the advisor back, respect the shift, please. Just as you want to be heard, I suppose the advisor will have the right to explain himself. Well, I'm not gonna argue with you, I'm not gonna argue with you. If he interrupts again, the advisor will call her in order. You have the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u348	Look, on the 17th day, as – I repeat – the mayor of Ferrol did not assume his responsibilities, neither as president of the company nor as mayor of Ferrol, on the 17th day the Health Council, whose responsibility is to ensure the safety and health of the population, must initiate the realization of the analyses to ensure that we are fulfilling and that there really is no real risk to the population. [[Murmurs.]] That same day 17 are shown in the five municipalities that are affected by the increase of trialomethanes, and that very afternoon of the 17th day the results are communicated – you say we were absent until the 19th day –; on the 17th day we took samples in all the municipalities, on the 18th – Saturday morning – we again took the analytical measures to see how they were, in the afternoon we had the results: all the municipalities were below 100, except Ferrol, which is communicated again to the mayors, like our responsibility for monitoring and controlling... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u349	You have a second call to order, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u350	...and, of course, it is also found on the website d Con sellería, as it is always done when analytics are made that the Council and the company should carry out. And the next day – Sunday – the samples are also taken in all the municipalities, precisely to ratify if they are still negative, and here they are also negative in the county of Ferrol, which is communicated – once again – to the mayors and hung on the website. That is, I really consider that the Health Council, at all times, was present, of course, and since day 13, that the company has communicated to us the results of day 29 and the [...] of day 6, that it has not communicated to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u351	Mr. Tellado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u352	Mrs. Sestayo! Mr. Tellado. Give Mr. Tellado a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u353	Thirty seconds, which are enough, just to clarify Mrs. Sestayo... First of all, I thank you for following my Twitter account; secondly, I tell you that it's not the same as saying that they poisoned the water that the water was poisoned, and the truth is, he likes or doesn't like it, the water wasn't drinking, the water was unhealthy, and the water wasn't suitable for human consumption...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u354	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u355	...and at that time those who ruled were you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u356	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u357	The truth is, at that moment, Mrs. Sestayo, what bothers you is that I told you your...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u358	Sir roof, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Tellado, your time is up. [[Applause]] Question by José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons for the changes made to the tender for the recruitment of the land urgent health transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u360	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u361	Thank you very much, Madam President. Again, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The subject we bring here today comes from a meeting held several months ago with different entrepreneurs in the health emergency transport sector – their request – to which we attend, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carmen Acuña – who is not here today for the reasons of everyone known – and myself. At that meeting, these entrepreneurs expressed their deep concern, outrage and so on, with regard to what they felt was happening with the emergency transport contest. They understood these entrepreneurs that there was a manipulation, they understood that the contest was arranged, and they understood that this contest was seriously prejudiced by small entrepreneurs – or most Galician entrepreneurs – and for the benefit of a few who were much more informed in collaboration with a state-owned company. Well, from this meeting on the part of the two Members we attended, as was our obligation, we proceeded to review the requirement of conditions and to check what they told us in relation to it. We were able to verify that, in fact, the invitation to tender was called on November 26 with a 15-day time limit – i.e., from November 26 to December 10 –; by chance, with the bridge of the Constitution on the middle, on two Sundays, etc.They remained exclusively 11 working days. The second thing we found is that the duration of the tender was four years longer for two more years, and the third thing we immediately checked is that the amount of this tender was at nothing despicable amount of 121 million euros plus VAT and, if there was an extension, 197 million euros, including VAT. We also found that, in fact, the technical characteristics that were required prior to these vehicles were modified, and we also found that a new change was introduced which meant that the adjudicators had to be vehicle owners, fully equipped and bodyd at the time of the adjudication – against what was usual, that the adjudicators had a time limit to acquire the vehicle and body it. The fact is, around August, we found that the competition had been solved exactly in terms that pre-monitoredly announced to us several months before these entrepreneurs. The main adjudicataria company is a company called Ambiberica, which is a company with social headquarters outside Galicia, with very rapid growth, that is to say in the year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u362	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u363	...two thousand... well, the question would be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u364	It's written, thank you, Mr Bugallo. [[Applause]] The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u365	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Mr. Bugallo, look, the truth is that the process I think was absolutely rigorous and transparent and, of course, talking about serious anomalies is absolutely lacking the truth and without arguments. Look, which has caused a grave prejudice to many small companies in Wales, this also does not fit into reality: the vast majority of the companies in Greece that are performing the service today have been presented to this auction; for their knowledge, I tell you that twenty-three companies, including Ambulances The Burgas, UT Monforte Company, Ferrolanas Ambulances, Pontevedra Ambulances, Quiroga Ambulances, Ambulances of the Coast of Death. I mean, they all showed up and they were all able to fulfill the demands. On the other hand, it is said that in this tender, with regard to the previous one, a whole series of changes concerning matters such as the characteristics of vehicles are introduced and, in particular, the bidders are required to be owners of vehicles already conditioned at the time of the adjudication. Well, with regard to changes, obviously, there was a normative change, Royal Decree 836 of 2012, of May 25, establishes the technical characteristics, health equipment and the staffing of road transport personnel; and, in turn, Royal Decree 22 of 2014, of January 17, establishes the basic character of these technical characteristics. For this reason, we had to adapt our regulations to these characteristics and to these real decrees of the national sphere – and, as I say, thank you for that –. And, therefore, on April 14, 2015 we published Decree 52/2015, known to all ambulance entrepreneurs and, of course, to which you adapt the nails you refer. I mean, the regulations force us to change the nails. But see, in clause 8.23 of the wording of the administrative clauses, it says, "New vehicles. In the case of offering new vehicles, the lawyer shall have a maximum period of 6 months from the date of notification of adjudication for renewal." In other words, you are not obliged to have new vehicles at the time of the adjudication, but you are given a period of 6 months – as happened on the other hand in the 2007 invitation to tender. I mean, it's not true that they're also forced to have this requirement for new vehicles at the time of adjudication. And of course, I can tell you that, in any case, these claims have the reports of the legal advice of the General Intervention of the State – as it cannot be otherwise – and of course they comply with the recast text of the public sector contract, as it cannot be otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u367	Well, I have to tell you that there are issues you haven't answered. 15 days for a contest: 11 working days for a contest of 197 million euros? Is that a normal deadline? The normal deadline in the State Contracts Act is 26 working days; here are 11. Even for the emergency statement, which reduces the deadline to half, there are 13 working days; here are 11 working days left. I didn't see any motivation for why there's this urgency. On the other hand, you know that urgency must be motivated by survival, unforeseen and unpredictable facts. This is not justified anywhere. It gives the impression that this is a clear limiting element of competition. By the way, in the contests we could check out of here, the normal deadline is 45 days. I don't know why that period here is reduced to 15. Secondly, there is something that is also important – which I haven't told you before – and it is that, from the month of September, if you get us a series of documentation that we can't be held responsible for, either, but that apparently raises questions that point to this contest; one of them is a budget, formulated by a company on October 18, 2014, to drive these ambulances, and – I urge you on October 18, 2014 – the contest was convened on November 26, 2014; that is, the budget is presented six weeks before the contest is called. Secondly, I find it even more surprising: we were given a copy of a report, a private detective, in which we are told that certain ambulances were registered on December 3rd – the contest was convened on November 26th – they were lined on January 17th, stored in a warehouse, and the question we are asking ourselves is whether it's normal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u368	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u369	...that someone buys ambulances, trains...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u370	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Sánchez Bugallo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Bugallo. [[Applause]] The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u371	Look, Mr. Bugallo, the truth is, I don't know what you're talking to me at all. What I can insist on is that the process was, at all times, clear and transparent. The Council of the United States – which had previously reported, of course, to the Juridical Council and the General Intervention of the State – approved this invitation to tender on 20 November 2014, adopted the agreement to authorize the Public Foundation to withdraw this invitation to tender. Of course, for two reasons: firstly, for your sake, as you say – that it is obviously obliged to take you to the board of directors – and also to be for six years, four plus two, as you say. The changes in state legislation have, of course, forced us to change some of the nails. At all times there was a recruiting table for 061 technicians and health service technicians who – I have no doubt – fully evaluated the bids presented. As I told you, all the companies that are serving today in all the lots of Galicia – you see that it has given them time – have been introduced. Obviously, we had been saying for a long time that we were going to take this contest, and they knew the conditions in which the contest was going to be held; everyone, not just any company, as you said, is not in Galicia, but all the Greek entrepreneurs knew, of course, that this contest was being prepared and that the technical characteristics of the vehicles would be the ones that collected the real national decree and the Greek decree. It couldn't have been any other way. Of course, I believe that the technicians who are evaluating or who have evaluated the procedures and offers presented, I do not think they have any interest in any of the offers. But besides, I say more: there have been some resources already submitted against this competition and, at the moment, all these resources have been failed in favour of 061, of the Foundation 061. We hope, by October, to have all the resources settled and to be able to sign the contracts. And, of course, when we see the adjudications, we'll see that there are a lot of Greek companies that are going to be adjudicate of the various lots that make up 061. Obviously, the amount is very high, but we're providing the best-valued service by the Greeks and the Greeks, the 061, the 061 ambulances. We have ambulances in all the regions of Galicia, we have medical ambulances and we have basic ambulances to serve all the Greeks in emergencies and emergencies. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u372	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Daniel Rodas Chapela and Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures taken by the Galician Union for the Recovery of the Sea Banks of the Lulla Lombos, The Cabido and the Boido
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u373	You have the word, Mr. Rhodes, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u374	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Once again we bring here the dramatic situation that is living the Arousa River with the disappearance of resources in the Ulla Lombs and the pressure of Boido and Cabido. There's no need to visualize your data to check the evolution of annual bivalve sales on the different banks of Arousa, and check how, starting in 2008, the fall goes down. As you well know, in 2012 the hammer was detected, which is causing the death of the common Berberect, the Cerastoderma edule. We had called for measures to prevent proliferation, but today it is also detected in the stream of Pontevedra and Vigo. We wonder if you're going to take any measures to prevent it from reaching the creek of Walls and Girl. The hammer means the death of the Berbereccho, and in Arousa it represents nothing but a loss of 40% of the income. Will you do something? The Berberectus has disappeared, there is greater pressure on the plums, which, along with the mortality caused by the last laughs, means that the captures of other molluscs as well. Is there any measure for our country to produce, at once, beer seeds and plumes to be able to rest our seafood banks? There's the Camarina microcreator, a whole picture of his commitment to the production of our seed. Last year I was asking, for these dates, time and patience, finding that a week earlier, reports were not published to be able to open up to what is free shellfish; within two weeks we will be in exactly the same situation. And now what, we ask ourselves. It was not able to take action in 2012, when the hammer was detected, nor in 2013, nor in 2014 nor in this one, that we are already going beyond 2015. What do you tell the hundreds of sailors this year that every Friday they concentrate on the different municipalities of Arousa, Counselor? What solution does it move to the sector two weeks from the opening of the free seafood? When the Eye Lombs are closed because there are no captures, what are all these people going to live from, how are they going to face this winter? If there is no marquee, there will also be, as it is happening, more pressure on other arts – if they are complaining that there is no dust or necor, that you cannot work at the enmalle. What...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u376	...solution gives you, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u377	The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u378	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rhodas, first of all, I would like to express that this council has worked, works and will work to provide a solution to the difficult situation in which the free-marish banks of the Arousa River find themselves. Allow me here to highlight an inconsistencies that I believe discloses an uncertain vision of our performance, and I ask you to change to add to the line of proposals for solutions, since you are talking about mismeasures and, in the same paragraph, comments on the studies on the evaluation of the presence of bivalves by the Galician Union. Let me make another appreciation, because you – and some more – talk about what actions should be done before, especially the analysis of resource stocks, and you have to say that this is done so because, to know the commercial size biomass of the different species, if you need an assessment as recent as possible, and because the recruitment of the year should not be evaluated until the time of fixation. They serve these studies, which you quote, as a sample button that there is neither abandonment nor abandonment of functions in this field, neither in dialogue nor in actions. You should know him because the media collected many of these actions profusely. The result of the study carried out from the Council and in the search for solutions to the current situation of Berbercho shortage in these banks in the Arousa River, five possibilities were indicated to be analysed for their execution and were shown to the sector at two meetings. In this sense, the dredging was discarded because it considered that it did not solve the current situation of plum populations and that it would, however, prejudice the recruitment this year, delaying the recovery of the bank's production. This conclusion coincides with that obtained at the beginning of 2002 – and finished in 2004–, a study which found that the channel dredging had no effect on the widespread decline of the salinity of the area. But the rest of the actions were approved and some are already executed, since the removal of the sediment in one part of the Boido, which was not currently productive, approached the cleaning of traces of algae deposited in the bottoms of a part of the Cabido bank and carried out a control of predators which led to the removal of more than 3 tons of canes, shells and mails of both species in the Grove coop during the month of July. It remains to be addressed the transfer of sized clocks over 35 millimetres outside the Marqueiro banks of the Boido and the Cabido. And since then, we've been working for years, not since yesterday, for the recovery of these areas of work and for this to be a reality. We trust technicians and we know there are no magic veins, but experiences like those in the Pontevedra River make us think of a lot of work and a little waiting for good results. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u379	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rodas Chapela's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u380	Counsellor, when she arrived, she was insisting on professionalizing the mariners and raising their incomes. Today the reality is much more dramatic: not only do the number of sailors go down, but their income falls into bites: 6,482 euros last year, 5,720 years ago. That's the sad reality. The real measures against the hammer have been that the Berberecho has disappeared since 2012, that the same has passed to Pontevedra and Vigo and that there is no single measure to deal with that can reach the creek of Walls and Girl. The only thing that has been presented here is the activity that has been developed for 10 days, which is to remove the Boido, remove algae and eliminate predators. That's the only baggage in a highly complex situation, which I'm not able to put any precise performance on the table. But the worst is their failure to listen to and accompany the sector; and we do not say so, the sector itself, which has already disallowed it last year, which, as with the siege, as it was previously seen, is being disallowed by imposing the ICCs (individual fishing quotas) and taking over the distribution of the yard, for example. The chief accusers, the counsellor – accused her last year – of passatism, resorted to the vice president and are now resorting to the President. You're no longer the valid interlocutor either for shellfish, for fishing, for milk or for fire. He has no project for the sector, he has not fulfilled the promises of professionalizing the sector, of increasing income, of accompaniment, of valuing intangible brands, of regulating crop parks or sizes outside the natural bank or clock. Nothing at all, Counselor. On the contrary, you're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u381	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. [[Mr. Rodas Chapel pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Replica from the councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u382	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rhodes, I don't really know if they're gonna give me three minutes to tell him and take him down every single one of his assurances. First of all, which I do not regard as an interlocutor: I have received a letter of appreciation from the President of the Acerga for the efforts made in Madrid to achieve greater fishing quotas. That, on the one hand. Second: first, to identify what was the pathogen that had the Berberecho, that's what scientists do, and for that, we have to spend money to do research measures; right now we know that pathogen is what affects the Berberecho and we're working on a line of research to get a species that is resistant to this disease; I can tell you that in such a short time it's hard for anyone to be so committed to the study and the progress that has been achieved in the identification of the marthelia of the Berberecho. I can also tell you that it's a foreign species, that someone, improperly, introduced into our waters; of course, not the administration of the Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]] I can tell you that in 2012 the disease was detected and that at this time the preliminary results on the Berberect's situation in the banks of the Arousa River believe that there was a lot of fixation this year and that this Berberetto may have reached the commercial size. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In Pontevedra banks, there's a lot of Berberecho fixation, and we also hope it can be marketed. And I'm not going to mention the creek of Walls and Girl 'cause I think Monday was carried in every newspaper. On 14 January, they met with the Secretary-General of the Sea, on 15 April, with representatives to discuss the subject of the exploitation of the clock, on 28 July the study of Seaga was presented and the measures were discussed, and on 14 August they continued to analyse the measures imposed towards their execution, and tomorrow they have a meeting with which they are speaking to decide what further measures we will put on the table and to analyze in the next few days the final results of the situation in which mollusks are found in the area of the Ulla lobes. I also want to kill you: what is bad in the Arousa River is precisely the free-marish banks, not the banks of the areas of authorization and concession of the confrereries where the marishers work, which they themselves say their banks are much better than those of the free-marish. Then you'll have to think that maybe we need to modify some management measures so that the banks where the fleet workers work are in the same situation as the banks where the seafarers work on foot. A good management often means that the next year we're going to have better results and that's how you just believed in the Noia stream. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u383	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. on the measures proposed by the Galician Council for the exit of the emergency situation in the sugar fields
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u384	You have the floor, Mr. Sánchez, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u385	Yes, what are we going to expect from a government that does not hesitate to use public administrations, such as the Health Council, to put them to the service of the People's Party and create alarm among the population to destabilize a Government? What are we going to expect from a government that has a president who practiced this morning, once again, political escapism, the election of their responsibilities and... That's the level, that's the level. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo... yes, yes, Mr. Feijóo, what happens is that they don't even know what I'm talking about; that's what they don't know, that's true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today Mr Feijóo has once again done an exercise of escapism, of election of responsibilities, of not acting as President of the Galician Union and has stated that the opposition urged the sector not to accept the agreement proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Murmurs.]] I tell Mr Feijóo that that is not the problem, the problem is not what he thinks of the opposition to the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture; the problem is that the sector itself does not accept that agreement as valid to solve its problems, that is the real problem. First, because that agreement is a set of generalities, inaccuracies and issues that have already been told that they were going to be solved. That is also a problem added to Mr Feijóo's lack of credibility – which has already signed an agreement three years ago with the sector in which he was committed to issues that he obviously failed to meet – to the lack of credibility of a Government that he proposed on successive occasions regulatory packages that were not effective in solving the problem. We talked yesterday about the structural problems – I'm not going to talk again about their lack of foresight and delay in their reaction – now it's time to ask about the short-term solutions, because it gives us the impression that this government has not worked to solve the milk problem, but it has worked to break the resistance of the owners who were mobilising; it has worked to break its resistance by harassing, dividing and, as it was said yesterday, the problem was not a problem in the sector, the problem for the People's Party was mobilization. These people came to have to suffer a harassment of, even, landing riots to dislodge them from industrial blockades, when they're simply fighting for a decent price that will serve them to live; there they do apply hard the state instruments to punish, against the livestock, but against the industry and against the distribution not. Counsellor, what are you working on, what solutions are you working on that affect the livestock sector for power?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u387	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u388	The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u389	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, the truth is that your introduction to expose the question that I was going to ask is that it is as if you weren't living all these days in Galicia, I don't know where you were, I don't know if you participated in the debate that there was... yes, because maybe they were a little vacations and they didn't know that the president of the board didn't give any scapism, that he was at all times gathered with the sector, that he was there by August 5 – when there were no mobilizations – the president of the board was gathered... [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u390	Mr. Fajardo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u391	...with all the links in the chain. I don't know if this is meant or not, what I do know is that you seem to value it. I would ask you to review the agreement that was signed in 2012 and tell me what point of that agreement, which was the competence of the Galician Union, was not met. Just the challenge to that, because all the points that appear in that agreement that were the competence of the Galician Union, absolutely all of them, were met. Our commitment is, of course, to the sector: only in this year 2015 has been paid more than EUR 140 million; in the short term we have measures to cushion the impact of the difficulties that have to go through at this time certain holdings; in the past Council of the Union we approved the two-year moratoriums on the payments of the claims of the improvement plans without cost of interest to the sector, we speeded up management to anticipate more than 70% of the aid from the CAP of 2016 – up until now only 50 % – which will start to charge from October 16, 2015, and this will mean that before December 2015, the holdings will have received an average of EUR 17,000 per exploitation. In addition, we are going to give support to those circulating, which will allow access to 10 million euros of capital. In the medium term, we are already doing the value-added campaign of our quality product, of our Greek milk 100 %, and we have a promotional initiative to distribute more than 100,000 tetrabriks among young children to get used to milk. And in the long term, apart from consolidating the promotion of 100% of Greek milk, we will be promoting the restructuring of the sector. We are convinced that the sector has to be united. We can never be accused of dividing the sector, others will know where they are, we're looking for everyone to be part of a single organization. We will support industrial investments in the sector and business concentration with more than 30 million euros, we have examples of cooperative integration of Acolat and Lasurgal. On those lines, Mr. Sánchez, we're going to keep working, that you don't have the slightest doubt. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u392	Thank you, Counselor. You have the floor, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u393	Counselor, the best quality as a Government is that you never get colored, nor when you say these things. Look, can I give you a point? The first point: to lead in the drafting of the Food Chain Law a point that set a reference price to prevent it from being sold under production costs. I'm telling you in memory, Counselor. Was that a point in the 2012 agreement, yes or no, Counsellor? Was it worth it or not? Has the People's Party led the drafting of the food chain law to set a reference price? No, Counselor. Stop lying, stop lying! I'm a failed government, I'm a failed government! You don't solve the underlying problem, which is that you can perceive a decent price, and you haven't even been able to prevent this country from selling losses and using milk as a claim product. Those are powers of the Board, Counselor. What have you done to prevent milk from being sold on large surfaces under the reference cost of the Ministry of Agriculture Price Observatory? What have you done, Counselor? Give me a relationship of the sanctions that they wanted to impose and don't tell me you did something to be next to a sector, when you were the architects of that massive scam that was Milk Food. You come here to sell European aid as a solution, as if they were kind to the livestock, Counselor. The European aid, which has been received continuously in this country since its entry into the European Union, is you selling us as a solution to the sector? You don't have any more because you don't look anything. The gangsters no longer expect anything from you, the only thing that comes here is to manipulate and lie again. But that's right, the sector already knows her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u394	Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u395	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, I'm glad you know my sector because you know I never lied to them or will not lie to them, no matter how hard you try to say the opposite. We lead the drafting of the Food Chain Law. It's the first time in history that there is that law in Spain, it's a law that is asking us from the European Union, and that law has been led by Galicia and can be put on everything legally possible. When we wanted to put something else on, there was a report from the Competition Court that prevented us from doing so. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u396	Mr. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u397	I can tell you... because it's very easy to play with where we can't [...], but there are sanctioning files open to all those who have breached the Food Chain Law... [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u398	Mr. Sánchez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u399	Mr. Sánchez, and you know that. There's files open, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't tell me that we're fooling the sector, the only thing we're saying is that this agreement is a historic step. The producers – their representatives – and the representatives of the industry were so far gathered in Inlac. Since Inlac's existence, the first time they were able to sign a joint document was fifteen days ago to arrive at a proposal for an agreement before the ministry and, in addition to that joint proposal that makes the industry more producer, they also decide to incorporate the distribution into this agreement. Therefore, they are all to be individually portrayed: industry, distribution – on an individual basis – and representatives of the producer sector. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] We believe that this is a historic step, we believe that it is a time when the mediator's figure is finally collected, in which the producer sector tells the ministry that it has to be the guarantor of these agreements. So we're going to work together to defend this sector. Don't play dividing the sector, don't play making it smaller; let's all play, let's push everyone to make it bigger. In these days, throughout Spain, milk was being marketed and Galician farmers, for a decision of not knowing who but, of course, not from the sector, could not deliver their milk and had to ruin it. That's a very negative picture for the sector, and there anyone who's prevented our sector from being able to deliver their milk, while the milk from the rest of Spain is actually being marketed, it's certainly being industrialized.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u400	Mr. Garcia!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u401	Those losses we'll see who's gonna pay them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-16-DSPG121.u402	Thank you, Counselor. The agenda is run out, the session is up. Good night, thank you very much.
