ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. Promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of Mrs. Jackeline Fernández Macías
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u2	Before entering the agenda, a preliminary point is included, which is the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia of the new Mrs. Jackeline Elisabeth Fernández Macías, in place of Ms. Maria del Carmen Pardo López. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency, and I beg you to answer from the stage to the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Jackeline Elisabeth Fernández Macias, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u3	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u4	I have given the oath, I have reached the full status of Parliament in Galicia and we welcome you. Let's start with the agenda, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u5	Yes, Madam President, on a point of order by appealing to the Article of the Rules of Procedure that any Member may request compliance with the Rules of Procedure during the sitting. Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure provides that plenary sessions shall be open to the public and shall then accept the exceptions. From our point of view, this principle that plenary meetings must be public in practice is being tightened up, limiting, when not transgressing, the continuing obstacles to which parliamentary groups can take invitations to attend this session. And we are very surprised when, after announcing that all parliamentary groups would have invitations so that people could attend these sessions in the guest gallery at the beginning of the session, it turns out that there is now a sanction that prevents several parliamentary groups from being able to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. I've already understood your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u7	... invite people to attend. So I want, on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, to record our protest, because we consider this to be totally contradictory to what is invoked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u9	...of an open-door parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u10	Well, Mr. Jorquera, I don't have to tell you why you don't have any guests, they actually carry several plenarys without them, and therefore it's clear why it is. And, of course, there are some rules that are written, that you know, since 2013, and it's as simple as meeting them. So I don't think this is a matter of order for this whole day. If you have any complaints, you know the organs where you have to pose them. Please, please. [[Applause]] Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u11	We started the agenda with a change, I want to communicate a change in the agenda. The Joint Parliamentary Group calls for the approval of the debate to take account of its bill. I therefore understand that this approval takes place by consent of the members of the House. And since then, we continue with the next item on the agenda. [[Assentment.]] Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services of Galicia, for the introduction and promotion of social concerts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u12	Mrs Gallego Calvar speaks for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning, too, and welcome to all the representatives of the social initiative institutions that accompany us today, social and non-profit institutions that work in all the social and civil life in our country and who are invited here today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to attend the debate of this bill that we present. It's a pity we can't welcome the President of the Union this morning too, the President who is absent, that president who spends the weekends going through Spain and going through television dishes instead of dealing with Galician problems. That is certainly why you cannot come to this Parliament today either to discuss the problems of the dairy sector or to tell us why the citizens of southern Galicia have a second public health rather than having the same rights to health as the rest of the citizens. Probably because he's very busy campaigning in other places instead of being in the Galician Parliament and not in Galicia dealing with the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today presents this bill that it is now doing to amend Law 13/2008, the Galician Social Services Act, basically in Title II and Articles 29 and 30, those that speak of the form of provision of social services in our autonomous community. As your lordships know, as we all know, social services can be provided directly from the public administration itself, or indirectly. And in the case of the indirect way because they can be provided through private, commercial, business or private but non-profit entities, which we want to refer to on this initiative. This proposed law that we present today for consideration – this is therefore the initial debate – consists of 9 articles, a transitional provision, a derogation provision and two final provisions. It concerns, of course, the autonomous, state and Community regulatory framework, and essentially it is intended to guarantee with more legal force the priority of social and non-profit initiative entities in the case of contracts and concessions of all kinds from public administrations to commercial entities. We also seek with this proposal a greater recognition of the role played by social initiative entities, third sector entities in the autonomous community. On Friday last week we attended many of those we are here on the 25th anniversary of Cogami, one of the largest and most important organizations in the sector working with people with disabilities in Galicia. There was talk, on that 25th anniversary, about how Cogami's beginnings were, about how families were joining together to work for people who had some kind of functional diversity, and how those little families were building organizations that today are pointers in the field of labour insertion, in the field of social inclusion, and are ultimately points, in giving them visibility to people with some kind of disability, and in demonstrating that they are also equal in their ability to people who do not have any kind of disability. That recognition was made on this 25th anniversary of Cogami, the socialists want to do it for the whole social and non-profit entity that is here today and for those who could not come too, because we understand that they were the ones who pushed the various administrations to seek and obtain new rights for people – the right to health, the right to education, in this case the right to social services –. It was they who were the point of launch, who were the pioneers in that struggle of integration, and without them it is impossible to understand, today, the coverage that can be given to people with functional diversity, because in many cases the administrations themselves went to third sector organizations and the means of third sector organizations to address the deficiencies that the administrations had. The socialists understand that it is the public administrations who have to guarantee a ratio of services and public squares to care for people, to meet people's rights. In the absence of the possibility of meeting all the people who demand these services, we understand that complementarity must be sought, and that complementarity must be exercised from the administration together with social initiative entities, third sector entities, and not commercial entities. Because it's about providing services to guarantee people's rights, not providing services to guarantee companies' benefits. And so when we talk about rights, when we talk about people, we understand that we have to guarantee these rights to those people with quality, always looking for the best comfort of people and not commercial performance. That is why we are presenting this initiative, an initiative which wishes to support the unanimity of this plenary, this Parliament. Because what we're starting today is the first step in this bill. We want to count on the support of all the House's groups, also counting on the fact that our proposal can be improved and can be enriched in the presentation debate so that we can then have an amendment to that Social Services Act that serves all of us, third sector entities, but also the whole population of Galicia. It is true that, with political will, with the current Social Services Act of 2008, if we look at what it says in its articles 29, 30 et seq., we could force that in certain situations, for example for companies with disabled workers over 2%, or for social initiative entities dedicated to the social and labour integration of persons in social exclusion, these entities could be prioritized, in this case before a contract, of competitive competition. But for the reasons that we all know, the truth is that in recent years only three of the centers that were opened by the Public Service, of any kind, were residences and older people, were childhood schools, were day centers, etc., etc., only three were directly managed by the Administration itself; the others, they all went out. And of those who have outsourced themselves, an important part of this outsourcing was commercial enterprises, that is, private companies, who clearly seek because business profit and not the guarantee of rights. It is also true that in these outsourcings of these private companies four companies are constantly repeated throughout Galicia; that is, there are four companies operating in this sector and they are often winning competitive competitions, which is a serious problem for third sector entities, social-initiative entities. We have the most recent example, which is the case of San Francisco, the case of the Vigo center, which was won this contest by Doral Residences, S.L., one of the companies that appears continuously in the resolution of these contests, this case, which, as we have seen all of us are here when we brought it to Parliament, because I have put a serious problem for families who had children and children and people who entered that center, in downtown San Francisco, with the upheaval that involves moving them from the Town Hall, to their usual surroundings. But that's not the only case, because the truth is, in the face of a public competition, in the face of the competitive competition on equal terms, an entity in the third sector that is working, like Cogami, for example, twenty-five years old and has centres, that is managing centers with templates because they've been working for more than twenty years, they can't compete in labour costs with a private company that has just hired workers, they have workers with precarious contracts. And besides, it's not just that you can't, it's that you don't, because we understand that these public services must be given in quality and that the workers and workers who offer these public services must also have good working conditions. So, in free competitive competition, without any kind of support for third sector entities or social initiative, what we're doing is leaving them out of the way, what we're doing is we're leaving these social-initiative entities and picking up commercial entities because they're the ones that can compete better at prices, so we understand that this change is necessary. It is necessary, firstly, because we already have a Community directive of the year 2014, which is pending the transposition of state legislation, which tells us that social concerts can be held in the case, for example, of social services, and that these concerts can be held separately from the rest of the concerts. We therefore have Community rules which protect us and which are already in force; regardless of whether the Government of Spain has yet to transpose State legislation, this Community directive is already in force. What does this Socialist Group initiative say? It allows, on the one hand, to regulate the regime of this social concert to carry it out through private and social initiative entities. It establishes this differentiated scheme of the general concert which regulates the general public sector procurement rules; precisely because of this specificity of social services and to prioritize these entities in the third sector. It also looks for this bill in concerts for a social clause that sets out the principles of personalized attention, the roots of people in the environment, continuity and quality in care; that is, principles that guarantee better provision of services and rights that provide social services. On the other hand, as I said, what this bill makes is to recognize the role of the third sector with the public funding of social initiative entities, not only through concerts, but also by laying down other formulas for the maintenance agreement, for the maintenance of the daily activity of third sector entities. It is also established – as I said at the beginning of my intervention – a transitional provision which aims – if this bill is approved – to maintain the current concerts, current agreements, contracts, concerts, which are already signed until the law is developed; precisely to prevent the change of legislation from producing those roots and changes of centres that I was talking about before, which may affect families and people who are in those centers. Obviously, as I said at the outset, what we are discussing today is the consideration of this bill, for what I call for the favourable vote of all parliamentary groups – I would like to say – in the spirit that, if taken into consideration, we can, among all, be enriched, bring new ideas which, while respecting the current regulatory framework, can reinforce the idea that we are moving to socialists with their presentation: social services are public policies that guarantee subjective rights of persons, equal to health rights or education, which must always be provided from the public with quality, and in addition to the entities of the third sector, to social initiative entities. I think that principle should touch us all and everyone enough so that all your lords can vote in favour of taking into account this bill, which is neither original nor the first, because it is true that other autonomic parliaments have already started this path long ago and have already begun to include in their law vigilant social services the social concert. So we don't want socialists here to attribute to us any authorship we don't have. Simply, what we are trying to move to this Parliament is a concern that exists in the whole of the third sector, in the social initiative entities, and a solution to that anxiety that comes from the application of the Community directive and the political will that I am sure that among all of us will be able to conjugate here today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u14	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. On June 15th, World Day of Awareness of Abuse and Abuse in Ageing is celebrated. Older people may be more vulnerable to mistreatment depending on their health status, their physical or emotional needs, and the social and family network. 5% of people over 65 suffer from ill-treatment, especially dependent persons, especially women, who account for 2 out of every 3 cases according to the Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine. At the first consensus conference on the ill-treated elderly person, held in the State in 1995, it was agreed to define abuse of the elderly person as any act or omission that produces harm, whether intentionally or not, practised on persons aged 65 or over, who occur in the family, community or institutional environment, which undermines or endangers the physical, psychic integrity, as well as the principle of autonomy or the rest of the individual's fundamental rights, found objectively or perceived subjectively. The impact of the crisis and austerity policies on the living conditions of older people is a clear example of institutional abuse. It is precisely socio-health matters and pensions where much of the cuts have been focused on. However, care for an increasing elderly population in need of them is placed in the hands of the private initiative. Private companies that act with absolute opacity: they do not report the number of ulcers or how many residents are due to the hospital, nor the reasons why they are due to the hospital; for example, how many cases are due to dehydration. They don't report the number of falls, they don't publish how many residents are subjecting measures and the protocols of their use. A study published by the magazine of the Spanish Society of Geriatrics analyzed the risks and deaths arising from the subjects, and highlighted the following causes: the inability of many older people to know the risks, the lack of supervision, the lack of staff and insufficient training. In Galicia we have already heard several complaints about ill-treatment in care centres for older people, mainly private concerted centres. For example, speaking of the latest, Antonio Godoy de Lugo's day center, with a report of ill-treatment to the old people who came to it. The complaint, filed before the Prosecutor's Office, collects behaviors such as spraying the old people aerosol, throwing them out of their hair, cold water showers and insults. Or the San Rosendo Foundation – created 20 years ago by the Ourense Bishopship in the municipality of the Mosque – denounced for infringing on residents old people, deprived of food and drink, excesses in the supply of sedatives, cold water baths, deliberate omissions of medical care and insults. These situations are often not reported because both the older residents and those who work at these centers are afraid of the consequences. Older people, fear of ill-treatment; workers, fear of dismissal. Because both older people and workers know that the Welsh administration will always be next to the concessionary company; they know that both for the Administration and for the company are the important costs and the accessory to people. Many of these companies offer services that do not provide or force workers – because they are essentially women – to perform functions that do not correspond to them: taxi driver, nurse, hairdresser... and the lack of staff to adequately care for older people in their basic needs is alarming. But, yes, when the time comes for visits, everything is perfect. In addition, Galicia currently has more than 1,400 minors protected in residences or day centres. The vast majority come from destructed families, with progenitors immersed in drug, alcohol, ill-treatment or mental problems. Of the 21,000 children who live today protected by the State Administration, 13,700 are in juvenile centers, mostly in private hands. Entities such as the UN, the European Committee on the Rights of the Child and several NGOs believe that children have become too succulent business for some companies. A report by the Sindic de Cataluña on the protection of children at risk in 2009 had already pointed out that as the form of protection moves away from the family of origin, expenditure increases, but when residential care is approaching, the difference is radical. According to data from 2013, the latest updates, the annual investment in extended families – grandparents, uncles, etc. – is EUR 4,436 per child, while the investment in an alien family is 5,774. Instead, the investment in a child in a foster facility is 47,630 euros, eight times more. The question that arises is, why then, if it's better and cheaper that they're with a family, if they're still institutionalizing minors? Child protection centres are practically in private hands throughout the state. Foundations, associations and businesses account for 70%. For example, of the 58 therapeutic centres for children in the state, 55 are in private hands, most religious. The crisis has increased the number of minors protected. Many parents are afraid to turn to social services for help, especially after such cases as those in Castile-A Mancha, where some parents were taken away from government custody of their children when they came to ask for help because of lack of resources. They're part of the list of disengagement records that doesn't stop growing. The system does not seek to invest in families, but rather invests public money in trying to separate minors from their parents and mothers to deliver minors to private institutions and companies. In the last People's Valor Report, Vulnerable Minors, Deprotection and Criminal Responsibility of 2007, there were serious deficiencies and non-compliances with regulations in juvenile centres in Galicia. Today, eight years later, we have no new assessment of the quality of care in the centres of minors in Galicia, just as there is no study of residences and day centers for older people. The 2014 People's Value Report, on the rights of people with intellectual disabilities, also points to problems for potential users of these services, and among them points out the long waiting lists that occur, especially when the transition from school stage to adulthood is given, with great delays. The Valador considers it essential in this report to increase the squares, especially in the municipalities of greater demand and deficit, and that, in the case of lack of squares, it is offered as an alternative to the same public funding that would correspond to the square and the one that is missing, and not a minor. I will not emphasise that there should not be repeated situations such as that of San Francisco, which has already reported the spokesman of the Socialist Party, but it has been a situation which has clearly shown clearly demonstrated that the Galician Union is much more concerned about offering business to private centres, mainly, even by withdrawing it from non-profit associations, and of course, what you have never been concerned about at any time in this process was the situation of the people in this process, the problem of adaptation that could pose to users and to their families the problem of the transfer proposed by the private centres, and essentially, even withdrawing it from the non-profit-making associations, and, of course, what you have not already been concerned about at any time in this process was the situation of the users at any time in this process, the adaptation problem that could have been caused by the people and workers losing their jobs, as you have demonstrated not only in this question of social affairs, but to their families, but to their families, but you have shown it on the textiles, and now has demonstrated it in no scope of telecommunications and health and health, where you use of people, where, where, where you are, where you can unfortunately, where, you can unfortunately, the administration itself, the most responsible administration itself is the most useful and you should use of the most useful use of the most useful use of the most useful use of the way, the way, the way and the way and you are the best used and you are the best used and you are the way and you are the way and you are used and you are the best used and you are the best used and you are the best used and you are the best used and you are the best used and are the best used and the way and are the best used and the best used and the best used and the way and the way and the way and the way and you are used and the way and the most used and you are used and the best used and the best used and the way and the best used and the way and best used and the way and the way and you are used and you are used and the most used and the way and the way and the way and you are used and you are used and the way and the way and are used and the way used and how how how how how and the way and the way and the way used and the way used and you are used and you are used and you are used and We'll talk after Vigo's hospital, but, of course, the policies of Junta, if anything can define them, it's their antisocial character. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We also want to welcome the people who accompany us and represent the initiative of the third sector, which represents the social initiative. Associations who for years have been performing their work to cover those gaps that have left the state of poor welfare with regard to social services. Today we have a really important debate in this House about what model of public service management we want. We will have it now with regard to social services; subsequently, as already mentioned, with regard to health and the hospital of Vigo. It is true that social services have come late to the welfare state, which has always been precarious, that they have never had such unconditional support from the public sector. In fact, there is this work of families, associations, foundations, to try to cover the gaps left by the public sector, perhaps because social spending has always been regarded as a disaster and not as an investment, not as an opportunity. So, some data have already been mentioned, but in the Spanish state we have the social expenditure per inhabitant of Europe, the lowest percentage of people working in public services for social services, and also the public expenditure with the lowest percentage of GDP for the states around us. That should make us think that social services are not services that are currently endowed with sufficient budget for their maintenance. In fact, today in the debate that we have opened – and we want to contribute to that debate as well – even if there are some considerations about the text of law proposed by the Socialist Party, our vote will be in favour of their taking into consideration, so that we can open a debate during the presentation on how the social concert should be regulated. We believe it is important to say that the law of 2008 made a clear and decisive commitment by public services in the field of social services, but we also understand how the text wants to nude, improve and contribute to defining this social concert. We understand that in this respect are issues that should be more aquilated; that in the social concert, it should be clear that it is not possible that there are entities that are camouflaging companies, but that it is really those entities that come every day providing those non-profit services, without looking as a goal to gain benefit, because – as I said before – in the debate we have about public services we see how these companies seeking benefit – some have already been reported in the field of services to minors, Vigo's hospital is a clear example – there is no benefit to people or a service, but really what there is that spirit of profit on the part of private companies. We therefore believe that it is so important to define the social concert, its complementarity with regard to public services, and - as I said before - to make it very clear in the text itself that, after the process of the Socialist Party's initiative is taken, they are not in the spirit of profit and have no profit activities. I wanted to remember how in foundations like San Rosendo, although they talked about that non-profit, what was behind was a clear search for commercializing social services. From the BNG we have very clear that social services must be public and quality social services, but also – and so I want to make it clear – we recognize this work of social initiative entities, a work that also emerges at a time like late-franquism, when families have the need to articulate accompanying services, seeing the needs that existed, and which were not covered by the State. From this tradition we have come to this moment where, indeed, if it has been done. I was already referring to Mrs Gallego's commemoration of the 25 years of Cogami last week, because we can talk about a work, an experience, a baggage of that deal with people in any field, whether they are people with functional diversity, whether they are older people, whether they are children's attention, families, or any of the social services we're talking about. But I do want to repeat, given the entire debate in this regard in 2008, and the previous work in 2007, in the Social Services Act, that we continue to maintain the importance of the public sector; that the public sector does not exacerbate budgets, quite the contrary, its service, the service it provides, is a high quality service; that the professionals who perform it have a great professionalism; but also – and I want to reiterate this to make it clear – we bear in mind the importance of the social initiative as a complementary area. What we are radically opposed to is the politics of privatization, that public services are in the hands of companies, and referred first to the centres of older people, to the allegations we have of all parliamentary groups – I suppose the People's Party's Parliamentary Group also has them – of different workers or relatives of older people who denounce inappropriate use or treatment by concessional companies, and we can report this to any sector that access social services. That is why we see in this text that the Socialist Party presents an opportunity to debate in the presentation process about what model of social services management we want. We maintain public services, and indeed, in a complementary way and through social concerts, that support for the social initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u19	Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I'm sorry because I have certain doubts that I can finish the intervention, given my physical situation and the first flu esters. I hope you can finish it. We, from the Alternative Gaga de Left, the first thing we want is to recognize to third sector entities what work they do, but we do not want to avoid the fundamental debate that is being brought here today, which is how social services should be organized and how they should be provided. And recognizing the associations in the third sector, those that have no commercial activity, but are simply service providers, because in many cases they have had to self-organise families and people to meet the needs that were not met by the Administration, which we cannot escape is the real debate that is being brought to this House today. That's why this debate, which is well-intentioned, which pursues a noble goal, introduces a drift that can undermine the public concept of social services, which continuously derives from third sector entities the needs that must be met by the Public Administration. We think in an absolutely clear way that what happens is that the public model is being questioned. You're giving a speech to the citizenship where it seems that the only organized and possible response is the one outside the public service conducted by the Administration. These speeches have an obvious danger, which is to reach that state which is unable to meet the social needs of its neighbours and neighbours. And for that reason, recognizing that in the current situation it is essential to recognize the work of third sector entities, and not only fundamental, but it is necessary to differentiate them from those that have a commercial character and that therefore seek the benefit, we must not forget that true solidarity, the only solidarity, is that which is achieved through fair taxes, which allow budgets that pay attention and give capacity to have universal social services that reach all and all. From Alternative Left Galicia what we defend is the change in model, from social services to social rights. We have to introduce the debate that social services have to become social rights, so that any neighbor in this country, who lives in this country, will make it clear that their needs will be met and that they will not, in many cases, have to be self-organised to address issues that should be covered by the State. We have indeed seen the withdrawal of the State from its functions, the breaking of the social pact, through civil mechanisms that conceal fundamental debates to hide them in second matters. We're in an ideological change where it's supposed to be society that addresses these issues, not an administration that's meant for that, and that without that kind of action, it doesn't make sense. We think of an administration that creates social rights, that addresses its neighbours and neighbors, and not an administration that compels society to organize itself to make those issues that don't make the administration itself. In this sense, the initiative presented by the Galician Socialist Party proposes a modification of the Law 13/2008, of the social services of Galicia, in particular the amendment of its Article 30, with the aim of adapting the models of public service provision to the third sector. In that sense, we will support the debate on this initiative, but we will make it clear that this change in order for third sector entities to have a prevalence over others must be for those who do not have a profit. We do not share that social services, social services, are another element of the market, and we can never share it. We do not share that companies that have long spent building now see in social services a business niche, and therefore we are not willing to speculate with social services. That's why we're going to try to improve this proposal during your debate, if it's attended by this House. To improve the proposal to promote access to tenders to those entities that obviously have no kind of profit, but to provide services and attention to citizenship, which is being forgotten by their administration. In that sense, the definition of these entities must be clear. It has to be clear which are understood as non-profit and which is not. And they have to equip themselves with mechanisms that favor these entities in front of others. You can't treat things that aren't the same. It can't be that companies compete on equal terms with non-profit entities, and that's why we're going to try to improve this proposal. What we really understand is that in social services the Public Administration must provide the sufficient needs that this population has, and therefore one thing is what Alternative Left Galeg and another the current situation, and Alternative Left Galeg will seek to ensure that these kinds of services are absolutely public and are carried out by the Administration through mechanisms that allow co-existence with civil society. But in the current situation, where this reality is impossible for the People's Party and other previous governments, who have been destroying public services and outsourcing virtually everything that has to do with social action, we are in the need to provide sufficient mechanisms for third sector entities so that in this way people can be cared for and not in situations that can put their quality of life and even their own life at risk. We therefore want to denounce the lack of public administration, which leaves these entities the initiative that should be of the administration itself, and therefore once again society demonstrates that it is above and before the administration itself and shows that it is able to organize and establish models that should be copied by the Administration to give sufficient attention to those people who need it. The administration must provide sufficient services, which it does not do today. And what you can't imagine is that social services are treated as mere figures, as numbers, and not as people who need them and who are therefore their beneficiaries. This situation is worse now, when the private and commercial initiative sees in the provision of social services a business, a business that comes to the attention of people with disabilities, older people, but also people affected by inequality. Because we don't want to talk only about poverty, we want to talk about inequality; because inequality is the one that causes poverty, because inequality has to do with that way that some people are made with greater purchasing capacity on the basis of removing others, and therefore these commercial entities who pursue a profit spirit also see in poverty a business niche. In this situation we want to intervene. In that situation, in that law of social services in Galicia, we must make it clear that there must be barriers and that speculation cannot be allowed with the needs of others, of the social majority in this country. In this sense, clear examples were set here of how the Administration of the Union prioritized companies that only wanted to be business against self-organized families to care for their dependents. Questions that have happened in Vigo, in Ourense, even in Vilagarcia de Arousa, made it clear that the Administration's only interest is to be able to round the figures of its budget even though behind that round of figures is the outsourcing of services and the placement of people with fundamental needs in the hands of companies that only they pursue is the business. And one company, when you have to put a user's needs ahead of your business, we're clear that in many cases you put the business above your needs. In this country they're turning dependents into commodities. In this country they are planted as one more element of negotiating the dependents or users of social services, and these are the issues that we must introduce in this reform. We are faced with the real burial of the public concept of social services, and that is why we will support this initiative for discussion, but in its debate we will pursue the introduction of mechanisms that guarantee two issues: firstly, the absolutely altruistic character of these organizations, which will be those that are and have priority attention; and secondly, the barriers sufficient to avoid mercantilism, to avoid speculation with social services and to avoid – as I have said earlier – that social service users are understood as pure commodities. We oppose speculation about social services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u20	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, people who accompany us in the rostrum and representatives of social entities. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the President of the Union is currently meeting with the Director General of FAO signing a collaborative agreement to promote initiatives relating to agriculture, fisheries and food to develop these areas in the least developed countries. So we know that at present the Labour and Welfare Councillor, who is responsible for the Government of the Union in this matter that we are debating, is present, and we know that the President of the Union is signing a very important agreement for many people in many countries who need it most. So you have to understand that there are issues that cannot be criticized in this Parliament. To begin with, I would like to remind you at this debate, about a social services law which was adopted in 2008, some issues; above all, to remind those parliamentary groups that supported the Government at that time, in 2008: that the Social Services Act establishes – as set out in its Article 29 – that social services will be provided by public administrations directly or indirectly through various types of procurement of public service management established in the regulation of public sector contracts, in particular through the mode of concert. And we continue, in Article 31 states that, for reasons of duly justified public interest, it is possible to subscribe to individual agreements with social-initiative entities for the provision of social services where it is not possible or appropriate to promote public competition. Article 33 states that the prices of tenders may indicate the preference for the award of tenders submitted by non-profit entities, but whenever and when they are equal to the conditions which are economically most advantageous. We're talking about bidding plugs, criteria in case of dismissal. And Article 32 of that law adopted in 2008 establishes the ability of commercially-initiated entities to act as social service providers. Ladies and gentlemen, this law makes no distinction or prevalence between the social initiative entities and the commercial initiative entities. So, you, who speak in your initiative that this law must be amended, a law that you yourself have drafted and passed, a law that in 2008 has not established any kind of prevalence to social entities, now in your initiative they ensure that the legislator, when he drafted this law, tried to ensure that, in the absence of a sufficient public offer, this law could be completed with the private initiative before the commercial initiative. So we wonder what the model is in this case of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because in its drafting and in the adoption of this Social Services Act you have not established any kind of prevalence for social entities, however, now in your proposed amendment of the law, they ensure that the intention was to ensure the primordiality of social entities to the detriment of the commercial initiative. What we just saw is that this is a left-wing law, approved by a left-wing government – socialist and nationalist – that applied and is applying a People's Party government. And now these own parliamentary groups that have drawn up, drafted and approved this law want to amend it, but what we just checked in this debate is that they do not even agree on how it should be amended. Because two completely different formulas have been heard here: on the one hand, the formula that social services have to be 100% public – hence closing the door to indirect management and commercial initiative – and on the other hand, we have heard that commercial initiative and indirect management must be maintained, but giving priority to social entities. So you will understand that the first thing you have to do, if you propose an amendment of such an important law as Galician Social Services Act, is to agree, because we believe that changing this law is something of a size enough to achieve as broad and as broad an understanding as possible. With regard to the proposal to amend the Socialists, of course, we agree with the People's Parliamentary Group that social entities should be prioritized in the provision of services in Galicia, but we also believe that this must be done with the maximum legal guarantees, and of course by studying the text; we have many doubts about the legal security of this proposal. We consider and share the need for a new scheme for social institutions; we believe that it is necessary to recognize the fundamental role of social initiative entities in the provision of social services in Galicia; and we understand – and so we will – by drafting a new proposal – that a third way can be opened by putting in place a system of collaboration with entities in the third sector. But the amendment proposed by the Socialist Group includes a formula, that of the social concert, of which we have doubts about its survival in the current legal framework. We have doubts as to whether the social concert can be a public sector contract form, because the Public Sector Contracts Act, in its Article 2, states that public sector contracts are costly, whatever their legal nature. Can you therefore include as an administrative contract a non-profit contract, since the contract law itself collects that they are all of an expensive nature? The European Union directive, of which you speak, on public contracts also lays down in Article 2 which are costly contracts concluded in writing between one or more economic operators and one or more taxing powers whose objective is the execution of works, supplies of production or services. The Socialist proposal eliminates the competition system as part of existing legislation and incorporates the social concert as a type of contract in the public sector. In addition, you speak of principles that would be met to establish social concerts that are already established by the Government of Galicia. They speak of a social concert scheme, which is necessary for authorization, as well as accreditation by the entity, the provision of means and resources of the ownership of the centres, which is now necessary. They also talk about considering in the general legislation on subsidies and administrative procedures the regulation of conventions, which is already being regulated. It is to reiterate the current rules. And in addition, as in the previous point, this point aims to regulate agreements and subsidies already provided for in the current legislation. So, in relation to the Socialist Group's proposal, we are going to vote against it, because from our point of view it generates quite a few legal doubts and because it is the amendment of a law, such as the Social Services Act, with its importance and scope, or to open a process of dialogue with the sector to achieve the broadest possible consensus, in seeking to prioritize non-profit social initiative entities. Of course, our group commits itself to drafting a new proposal with the maximum legal guarantees, after sitting with the third sector entities; a specific partnership framework with social initiative entities for the provision of social services as an alternative system to the public service management contract; a consensus framework with the entities and within the underlying legality, with all guarantees, because we know that the autonomous communities you are talking about, studying their changes, which are not the same as those currently presenting the Socialist Group, have presented repairs by the Consultative, which has caused some legal problems or some legal gaps. We therefore believe that the Social Services Act should be amended, that third sector entities should be prioritized in the provision of social services, but we want to do so with the maximum legal guarantees, and of course we cannot approve your proposal because it causes us many doubts in that sense. And, of course, when it comes to the provision of social services in our community, it should be recalled that 94% of the disability squares in Galicia are managed by social entities who have presented themselves to open public competitions, and 100% of the juvenile squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u23	...are also managed by social initiative entities. We therefore share that social initiative entities must have a greater role in the management of social services, but we also believe that changing such an important law as the Social Services Act requires consensus with third sector entities and, of course, legal guarantees. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u24	Thank you very much. Replica round of the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal. Mrs Gallego Calvar has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Block, the Left Galaga Alternative and the Mixed Group for their support for taking into account this bill that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled today and regret that the People's Party does not do the same and that it does not vote in favour of taking into consideration, which, if they believe, could be better prepared to ensure better what we all want, because they could make amendments and hold a debate in motion. The reality has nothing to do with the speech that Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has just done here. The reality is that the Government of the People's Party in Galicia and Spain does not bet on social concerts or bet on prioritising social initiative entities against commercial initiative entities. I say this because I know – and I know the organizations of the third sector that are present today in this debate – how the Government of Spain is resisting everything that can be done to implement the Community directive of 2014. In fact, there is a bill prepared by the Government of Spain in which the social concert does not appear at all; a social concert which does appear in the definitions of the Community directive. So what the German Government is doing today is not taking into account this bill is exactly what the Government of Spain is doing, to deny that there is this mode of social concert. And then they're justified in dubious legal matters. Look, there are certain legal interpretations of the laws we can have every and every day, but the fact is that there are autonomous parliaments as legitimate as this one that approved exactly the same text as the Socialist Parliamentary Group came forward today; in fact, I said in my initial speech that this was not something original or an occurrence of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Galician Parliament, but it was something that had been done in many autonomous communities. And I can state categorically – and I am sending it to the President to have the House as a whole the debate in the Parliament of the Principality of Asturias – that this bill presented today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is literally the same as that approved unanimously by the groups in the Asturias Parliament at the General Meeting of the Principality of Asturias on 20 March 2015. The People's Party of Galicia will have to explain why the People's Party of Asturias can pass this same bill and, however, here it cannot. I say it by quoting Asturias, because I can quote some autonomous community governed by the People's Party and who was the promoter of this social concert, as was Murcia's – I said by quoting some. As to the fact that the parties we were in the Government – spoiled bipartisan, that evil government that destroyed this country in just over three years of government – we were clearly betting on the commercial initiative, I believe that Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, when she was reading articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Social Services Act of 2008, had a difficulty in reading it, because you were reading the forms of provision of social services, the participation of the social initiative in social services services, was reading the promotion of the social initiative and was reading the cases in which the law itself of the year 2008 established priorities for non-profit social initiative entities vis-à-vis commercial entities. That was established in the law of 2008. That one couldn't go any further because there was a state contract law and a Community directive that prevented it from going further, of course; that now, after the publication of the 2014 directive, one can go further, one can specifically legislate social concert for social initiative entities that provide social services?, too. That is why we are presenting this amendment: we are presenting an amendment to a law that we have made because we believe that the current Community regulatory context can improve the law of the year 2008, because it has changed that context and, therefore, today we can guarantee better, legally, that third sector entities can have priority in front of the commercial initiative entities. That's why we put forward this bill and so, in other parliaments, your own party understood that this could be done; you here don't want to do it, because, if you wanted to do it, during these years, you wouldn't be giving all the outsourcings to Troncoso, S.L. –a company, by the way, involved in judicial proceedings – EULEN – since the delegation to Galicia is the sister of President Feijóo, the Doral Residences – which we already know of their background, and which, in addition, owns a real estate – or Geriatrics, which are the preferences that the People's Party has when it comes to outsourcing social services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u26	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u27	Look, here we're talking about rights, rights for people, and socialists want people's rights to be lent from the public; and, when they can't lend themselves from the public, complementarity is established with those who are up there: with third sector entities, with non-profit social initiative entities. Mr. Feijóo's daily government practice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u29	...tell us that it's just the opposite, that what you want is to privatize and leave behind the commercial initiative what people's rights are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u31	We have nothing against private companies: they have their niche market, they can do centers and there may be people who want to go to them, but from the public we have to ensure that the ratio of people's needs with some kind of diversity lends itself to the public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u33	That's what we socialists say and, of course, it's not what the People's Party says, what you see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u34	Well, we shall proceed to the vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services of Galicia for the introduction and promotion of social concerts. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u35	We continue with the development of the agenda, with the second point. Application for the establishment of an investigation committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. of the Alternative Galaga de Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, concerning the whole process of privatization and construction of the new hospital of Vigo Álvaro Cunqueiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u36	To begin the round of requesting parliamentary groups to defend their proposal, you first have the floor, by the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u37	Good day to all and all. Today we are going to request this Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry around everything that is happening with Vigo's new hospital, and we have to do it because this magnificent amendment of the regulation they have just adopted does not allow them to be formed unless it is this mechanism, and we regret that they define for the next session the possibility that it is otherwise, that they understand in such a restrictive way what is the democratic right this Parliament to consider and investigate what is happening in the country. The construction process of the new Vigo hospital has been involved since its inception by the scandal, controversy and suspicion: produced by the model change when the People's Party decided to move from a public model to privatization that is supposed to be the building system by the so-called PFI system; by bidding and adjudicating to an ETU of funding, construction, management, operation of numerous services; by the modification of the initial project, a modification which introduced very important cuts, which shifted from the forecast of 1,300 beds to just 800, which went from specialization beds... reduced them to 31.8%, the surgeries to 31.4%, the emergency services in 55.5%, the radiology rooms in 45.7%, removed the central laboratory, worsened the quality of construction materials, and the loss of energy efficiency. Worse quality construction, less equipment and less service. Alarm for the scandalous financing of the Galician administration itself for the concessionary company. Alarmed by the multiplication of the budget, which went from a forecast of EUR 400 million to more than EUR 1.3 billion; by the scandal involving this execution of the management order carried out by the Health Council to the Gallery for the development of the Technical Monitoring Office – which was the one to take control of how the work was developed, and which Galaria went out in favour of a private company worth more than EUR 4 million –. A private company in front of which is a person closely linked to the People's Party; its holder, Mrs. Sánchez, has previously held important positions of responsibility in the health administrations of the People's Party, in the direction of the Mexoeiro Hospital, in the General Directorate of Cohesion of the National Health System and High Inspection with Minister Ana Pastor, in the department of the Fuenlabrada hospital... that is, to put the fox in the care of the chickens. Because this company had the responsibility of controlling how Vigo's new hospital was being developed, and it was this company that drafted the final project, who drafted the functional program and who drafted the management plan, and did it from the dealership's own units, from the same work, did it working as a team with the concessionary company's technicians, and did it, of course, according to the interests and needs of making profits and business from the concessionary company and not for a free and quality universal public health. And it is necessary to clarify why this management order was made to the private company when it could have been made with the administration's own resources. And now, in the service of the new Vigo hospital, the real face of the People's Party is being uncovered, a face to be at the service of the powerful, not at the service of public health. An in-service job, a transfer to Vigo's new hospital, which means a fearful performance. Start, a shift has begun without guarantees, with multiple deficiencies, without the necessary equipment, without finishing the work, without counting on the workers and the workers. A fearsome action endangers the health and life of patients and the safety of professionals. There are multiple complaints of existing deficiencies by users, professionals and trade unions: complaints in labour inspection, prosecution, before the European Union, notarial records, public complaints... They're a bunch of complaints being made. And it all indicates that we are faced with a new treatment of favour, a waste of public resources, negligence and competition that must be clarified. It is necessary for the population to know that it is happening, it is necessary to assume responsibilities: why has the model change been made?, why has it been called in that way?, why has the initial project been reduced?, why has there been the granting of the control of the work to a private company in charge of which is a related person of the People's Party?, why has a transfer been carried out without the precise conditions?, why a hospital that had to be public, instead of ensuring that it was public and in condition it was prioritized that it was the interests of the company that took precedence? It's been prioritized to make cash instead of people's health. This Parliament cannot stay away from this generalized alarm situation created around Vigo's new hospital. That's why we are asking to vote in favour of a committee of inquiry to clarify, I insist, all the scandal that the new Vigo hospital is facing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the floor to Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u39	First of all, I want to express my gratitude to the comrades and fellows who came today on buses to accompany us and to cheer us up from outside Parliament, and to those 200,000 people we were also shouting, that tide outraged against the runoff this private hospital and the privatization of our health. We've been here denouncing this situation since we came into 2012, it's the first things this group has done since its entry into Parliament, and the first things the Government did was accuse us of lying, exaggerating, being catastrophic, apocalyptic, denying the truth, etc., etc. Today we know not only that we were right, but that, with horror, we could check the consequences of privatization. We defend from the outset that the hospital should turn to the public, that the contract should be terminated by all contractual breaches, and that the popular bench and the Government exercised business as if they did not know what was going on, as when in 2014, this same honourable Member warned that it had finished, that it had completed the period in which that hospital had to be handed over, which would not fit in the demands of administrative clauses possibilities for extension, and yet the Council of Galicia extended that delivery from the hospital. It's all worth defaulting when it's to benefit private companies. Today we demand the creation of an investigation commission because within the PFI model it doesn't even comply with the minimum set. The reason given by the Government for the PFI model was that it did not count as public indebtedness, in order to comply with the criteria of Maastricht agreements – the UTE had to provide 20% of its funding and get the other 80% through credits – but this was not fulfilled since the beginning and the boxes that had to provide that funding – one of them, for example, the CAM of its friends in Valencia, or Bankia, of their friend Rato – broke by their own policies – or Novacajagalia itself – and therefore it was the Junta who had to seek this funding – EUR 180 million from the European Investment Bank, and EUR 30 million from Axis, a risk capital fund from the Institute of Official Credit – which is therefore not yet to be counted as debt and which should be counted as public debt in these budgets. An irregular funding which we believe should be investigated. The risk criteria established by Eurostat are not met, and these delays resulting from the lack of funding were the ones that motivated them not to comply with those specified deadlines, the same delays that now put pressure on them before the election period, and by shortening a transfer, which should last at least seven months, in a move that according to the Galician Union will last for two months. The new Vigo hospital is not only not ready, but its qualities do not meet the minimum qualities that should correspond to a 21st century hospital: continuous flooding in a newly-detached hospital, rupture of pipes, absence of water points, falling roofs, pladur walls where you cannot hang absolutely nothing, absence of central laboratory, hospital with magnetic resonance in a truck, hospital that opens without TAC, with paying services...; a dirty hospital, without cranes, without machinery, with architectural barriers, a hospital even without claim book; quality control subcontracted through Galaria to a company created ad hoc with a capital of three thousand euros in the house of a high-ranking lady of the People's Party, the second on board of Madrid's health when exactly the laboratories, the second of Güemes, have been privatized, which is precisely the Unilabs advisor to whom the Union has just granted the central laboratory's adjustment adjustment. Your turn door over and over again. So we ask them to make it easier for the Greeks and the Greeks to know this reality; we ask them not only for the workers and the workers, these 200,000 people, the Greeks and the Greeks, who went out on the street on the third day to tell them that they no longer regulate the privatization policies of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The role of the parliamentary groups in setting their position on the proposals. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u41	Good morning, ladies. Thank you, President. The Joint Group supports this request for a commission of inquiry concerning the whole process of privatization and construction of the new Vigo hospital. The facts and data that motivate this request in the face of silence, shock and contempt on the part of the president towards citizenship, that he becomes irresponsible, and that he refuses to appear before this House of Representatives, hiding behind the pathetic figure of a political adviser – not clinical – that we could qualify as a terminal, are facts and data of such a caliber that they were able to take to the street one of the most numerous protests and, however, more heterogeneous ones that are remembered in the city of Vigo. We started from the basis that there was a previously planned hospital with a cost of 400 million and this is four times more expensive: more than 1,200 million, which this honourable Member finds strange as he loses several reference services such as radiotherapy oncology, teaching modules, 160 minimum intermediate care beds, etc., etc. Yes, you'll have a private parking lot with very high prices next to a large land owned by the councillor and on that land you can't access because it's worth it. This obliges users, patients and workers in this centre, to use themselves or themselves this private parking lot with the consequent economic cost that this entails and the profit for the concessionary company which, in addition, is an ally, is Madrid. Who do you rule for, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? I am replying to them: for the concessionary company which, in addition to the end of a preferential treatment, is granted the technical office for the pursuit of the work. If I don't understand correctly, this means that whoever is going to monitor the pursuit of a public investment in the granting of a work is the concessionaire itself. It's incredible! What transparency, listen, gentlemen! Besides, by the way, the company that has been assisted by this technical office is one of ours; that is, a former high office of the People's Party. This center of Vigo is nothing more than the result of a government's policies that don't defend the public, but that it does it with the private and privatizing interests of the concessionaires and their friends. In an unusual hurry, they are endeavouring to open a hospital center in works with the risk that this entails for patients, especially for immunodepressives, as the union of doctors in front of the Public Prosecutor's Office denounces it and calls for the circumstances in which this hospital was opened to be investigated. Opening of which, by the way, there is no documentation from the office of control of the work – oia, what chance, right? Or it would be a spook—or, in his absence, of the body that assesses that the hospital was in a position to start its activity. Really, under very good conditions it shouldn't be when water-borne problems have already been detected, by rupture of pipes, hidden ceilings, complaints of dirt and garbage storage, lack of medical material – of course, the workers of this center are presenting complaints on time each time they find an anomaly in this sense – patients treated in trucks. But there's a second complaint, gentlemen, there's not only one. This is from the Galician Association for the Defence of Public Health before the European Commission, in which it denounces "the alleged failure to comply with the Community law of the Kingdom of Spain, in the person of the Government of Galicia, regarding the invitation to tender for the administrative concession of the new hospital of Vigo, Álvaro Cunqueiro", and the "Uncompliant Administration" is urged to resolve the concession and proceed to the rescue of the concessionary company. And that rush to open, that irresponsible rush to open, what will it be due? There are two theories that this honourable Member fully shares: one says that it is due to urgency, to the rush of companies for making more and more money, and the sooner, the better. Also the one we were in an election period and wanted to sell this hospital, the construction of this hospital, like the great health achievement of the PP governments, but it went wrong for them. This is a centre, ladies and gentlemen, built by a temporary business union through a public works contract, which is supposed to reduce the degree of influence of the Union on health infrastructure. For all this, because of this alarming situation, because of all these complaints, because of the lack of clarity and explanations regarding the concessions in the construction of this building, it is essential to know all - absolutely all - the details and conditions in which these concessions were made, and also, if there is – which doubt - the reports that evaluated the opening of the hospital under conditions by everyone already known. So, I repeat, the Joint Group supports the creation of this committee. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. It's a shame I can't give good days too to Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Health Counsellor, both absent. But if I want to give good days too to all the comrades and comrades who with this ugly day are out there also protesting about this matter. The construction project of the new private hospital of Vigo do Goberno Feijóo has become a spooky failure and a scam, so all the Greek citizenship is against, especially that of the southern part of Galicia which is the most directly affected, as evidenced by the massive and historic manifestation of September 3rd. That's why President Feijóo, the ideologist and the direct leader of this disaster, should be here today giving explanations as, by the way, we ask him from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. He should be here explaining to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks why instead of doing a hospital in Vigo, what he did was directly a shopping center. But he prefers to continue giving the silent answer, prefers to remain hidden behind a fully amortized counselor and more neither dismissed nor stopped than ever, he will know why. He preferred, instead of coming here, to use the media to follow up with the canteen that is the biggest health infrastructure done in Spain in times of crisis. But you should know Mr Feijóo who was the largest in Spain and, moreover, one of the greatest in Europe was Vigo's demonstration against the PP hospital, small and private, and now another "p": dangerous. He did it should know, and if you can't tell him, Mr. Rueda, that it wasn't just some professionals and some sick people who showed their opposition to that nonsense and that scam that were almost 200,000 people in a city that has 300,000 inhabitants. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, this House that represents all that citizenship has to take forward this commission of inquiry today because all of us, as public representatives who we are, are obliged to give them answers, to give them explanations and, above all, to give them solutions to all those people, to all those people who call upon them. I must point out that this commission of inquiry has already been requested through the Platform for Public Health even before knowing the last, worrying and even mourning events. Our group has already supported that request because it seemed necessary in the face of all the irregularities committed since the very beginning of this project. But now, gentlemen, and after all the past with the transfer, it seems to us to be essential. Furthermore, we assume that Feijóo, a president who has so much to talk about the ethical code and transparency, will have to accept this very good investigation and the confident People's Group that he wants to support the investigation of the PRIS project of his government so that he can eliminate all the doubts that exist about Mr Feijóo's invention. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly essential for this House to examine why a project so necessary and so costly for all the Greeks and the Greeks, a project that had to be a solution to the health deficiencies in the southern zone, has become the management of the People's Party into a problem and a reason for confrontation and denunciation, and not only in the streets but also in the prosecution and even in the courts of the European Union. We must investigate, ladies and gentlemen, why a hospital that was going to be public and cost around 450 million euros has become, thanks to Feijóo, a private hospital that will cost 1,350. We must investigate why a hospital 40% lower than the contract initially goes, however, cost three times as much, mortgageting the budget of the Greek public health for more than twenty years; i.e., mortgageting the health budget of Mr Feijóo and the five – five, gentlemen! – following governments. To investigate why this initial functional plan, developed jointly between the professionals and the administration in those three and a half years of government of Mr. Touriño – by the way, prior steps towards the construction of any new hospital and which, however, had not been done in the 30 years of the PP government – included a total of 1,777 beds for Vigo, of which 1,239 were in the new hospital, 418 in the Mexeiroiro and 120 in Nicolás Peña, and why Feijóo and his privatization were only 1,260 beds – 500 minus, lords –: 845 in the private hospital, 347 in the Mexeiro and 68 in the Nicolás Peña. While, by the way, the private hospital Povervisa not only maintains its advantageous concert but is even expanding its facilities. We need, ladies and gentlemen, a commission that investigates why a private financing formula, the PFI, and in addition to the emergency route, was used so as not to have to explain when, and after breaking up the financial companies that made up the UTE, it was the government that came to the fore. Inquiring whether that downturn is really not going to count as a debt when the Board actually had to, in order to continue the project, resort to a loan from the European Investment Bank even though the contract clearly specified that the financing was the risk and venture of the adjudicate company. Investigate whether the changes, cuts and delays applied to the project violate or not the Contracts Act as to the free and equal competition of companies, as it seems that the input is to benefit the UTE adjudicatariat discreetly. To investigate why such a expensive project has, however, so many structural deficiencies and why it is so badly planned that it lacks taps so much to wash its hands. To investigate why Galaria handed over to a private phantom company created ad hoc, made up of a single person – quite close to the People's Party – and financed by the building and exploiting company itself of the new hospital, the drafting and definition of the final project of the center, the functional program and the management plan, almost nothing. And clarify, of course, how in spite of this Mr. Feijóo continues to ensure that it is a public hospital. To investigate why the best hospital in Spain, according to Feijóo, doesn't count on a laboratory, has to do radiological tests on an attached truck and has nowhere to wash surgical material or of course where to sterilize it. To investigate why users of such a public hospital are going to have to pay for parking, they're going to have to pay for drinking water with those Spanish tortillas made in Ukraine and they're going to have to pay until they sit down. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, pay for using that public hospital. To investigate why we're going to have to pay the Greeks and the Greeks so much public health money for buying a shopping mall, gentlemen, a shopping mall. And, of course, to clarify why a transfer starts without ensuring safety for patients. To investigate why the transfer is paralysed while the management ensures that everything is right and why the Government claims so loudly that there is no Aspergillus, where the air itself was analyzed that there was and where a patient died suspected of being contaminated had not even been analyzed. To investigate what were the Government's reasons for confiscating all the samples – all! – of the deceased patient from the Vigo lab and handing them over to a friend and neighbor analyst from the advisor; perhaps to also get an ad hoc report that ratifys that the patient went to the hospital carrying the aspergillus from his home. Ladies and gentlemen, this commission of inquiry is essential and it would not be understood that the People's Party had voted against it, as it would only serve to increase the doubts, mistrust and rejection of citizenship to the new private and small hospital in Vigo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Mr Santalices Vieira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning to all and all. Once again here today we speak again about the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, an old demand for citizenship in southern Galicia, of which now, fortunately, what we can say is, "built hospital and functioning hospital," this is the reality. Everything you tell here, I know this has done a lot of damage but this is the real reality. The hospital's built, the hospital's running and you're out of time, it's time for them to desist this. So what we should push is that this institution is starting to work and, of course, not this kind of disqualification, which we're going to talk about throughout the day. You're talking about an insecure transfer process, the transfer process was absolutely safe, a supervised process by whom you have to monitor it, by professionals who, at the time they said that you couldn't continue with that transfer, the prudent decision was made, but you don't have the slightest doubt: you'll be back and that hospital will work, of course, with its 100% capacity. By the way, don't monitor that transfer or hospital security, even though you're still with that... No, that's supervision by counseling, Sergas, don't confuse, you're talking about a company that says it supervises quality, lies. The quality and supervision of the transfer and the safety of the hospital is Sergas's competence. I, Mrs. Acuña, being a doctor wouldn't dare say this is a dangerous hospital. I shouldn't say it, you're very free to say what you want, and less – and we'll talk about it too throughout the day – put on this table a word that has to be carefully: Aspergillus. We'll talk about it, and we'll talk about it, too, and we'll talk about it in depth. [[Murmurs.]] You... yes, yes, you know where I'm going. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You guys also talk about this hospital losing reference units, can you tell me which one? Here it was said that if thoracic surgery and radiotherapy oncology were lost, lie, no reference unit was lost, rather to the contrary: there will be new reference units, this is the goal of Álvaro Cunqueriro. I myself proposed this summer a new unit of reference, a unit of food conduct disorder throughout southern Galicia, which includes also the province of Ourense, and we will present more because it must be, a unit of stroke and so on. All this is scheduled and this must be the fight, the fight must be to conquer reference units to the whole south of Galicia, it must not be the fight to destabilize the hospital, which as very well said yesterday a Tertullian of its benches: we closed that chapter because the hospital is built and we push, not waste the time in that is what we are asking for citizenship. But anyway, you're asking for an investigation commission. Can we reflect on the consequences that this research commission can bring, what do you want?, what do we investigate that in the beginning of this process, the years 2006-2007, has happened what happened? Yeah? [[Murmurs.]] Man, it was you! It was you, it was you. We'll talk. You'll talk in the afternoon, I'll talk now. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u46	Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u47	But we'll also talk in the afternoon about that famous process, how it started. How? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you want us to talk about how obstructing work is done on a beneficial project for the whole southern part of Galicia, do you want us to talk about it? There was a flagrant failure to comply with the 2006 convention. I know you're very upset with the vote that we remind you, a gross failure, denying water, negating light, denying roads. How can it be from an administration to which a hospital is being built in that city to do that kind of denial and that kind of lack of collaboration? Do you want us to investigate this in the committee so that you can appreciate what no public political officer should ever do? Well, I don't think he's doing you any favors. Do you want us to investigate how a whole citizenship is wrong, a whole local corporation, and even the president of the board himself, Mr. Touriño? Do you want us to do a commission for that? Well, yes, if it seems interesting to you, I think that for them to be given in that sense, I don't think... and, above all, there were mistakes because there were even agreements to achieve a budget when it was promised that, as a result, they would give them roads, water and light and then they didn't meet. [[Murmurs.]] What do you want? What do we talk about all this? All right. Do you want an investigation commission to actually say how much was left in the SPI for the construction of the hospital? 421? [[Murmurs.]] Zero euro, zero euro! Not a weight. Do you want a commission for that? Do you want a commission to talk about that in a public construction of a hospital the transfer of land must be done by the municipal corporation, the municipality in this case, and so it was collected in the agreement itself and that it did not give in? It was a generous assignment, over 238,000 square meters, which is what the Cunqueiro Alvaro means in its construction, the Vigo Town Hall, Mr. Losada, for you this data, 103 meters. You want all of this to blossom. Do you want us to talk about the messages being sent to the citizenry in the investigation committee? Caravaggio's most own messages, pure obscuration, about situations that are living and that directly impact on the health of the population and that this is a very sensitive subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what did you talk about during this? What did Mr. Beaster say? "Quick evacuation, please." Somebody tell him what an evacuation is and somebody tell him he needs to be more responsible when talking about health issues. Do you think you're responsible for a public storage room putting on the table, talking about hospital matters, killings? [[Murmurs.]] You always die on the table. But please, you can't do this! This is absolutely irresponsible language. Can a concierge, representative of the Vigo Town Hall, speak of what even he's afraid of going to the hospital himself? Can you launch these kinds of messages? Is that all right? Please! It's about pushing into a hospital that's working and respecting professionals, not giving professionals a kick in their heart about their quality and prestige. [[Interruptions.]] You speak, I haven't interrupted anyone, I'm usually never interrupting anyone. Parliamentary debate is characterized by speaking and listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u49	That's what parliamentary debate should be, it can be softer, it can be harder or it can be from anyone else, but I've never interrupted anyone. Financing model, do you want us to talk about how it was attempted and you weren't able to implement a financing model by yourself using the Alzira model as a reference? Alzira! That there are five models, public-private collaboration, to implement that model. People you have around today, who are concellers of the Vigo Town Hall, have explored... - man, you're close, you're close, you're always there, you're there, you've explored up to six models and you haven't been able to implement any. [[Interruptions.]] And the comments on the costs to see if we start saying them with the rigour we need to say them. You speak of 1,300 million euros as the total cost of the hospital, I think you should do the numbers well; if the cannon is 68 million euros for 20 years, you'll have to discount what we're already paying for, because you're already paying for cleaning, you're already paying maintenance, you're already paying for electromedicine, you're already paying for security, total: 30 million. So let's multiply all that, the actual cost of the hospital is down significantly, because the figure you're giving is close to 600 million. So there's a very important difference as to what you're voting about. Look, every time you open your mouth to talk about the quality and safety of patients, you kick the professionals, but in the heart, you kick the professionals! You question decisions that professionals take responsibly. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I went to debate about that and the quality was questioned. But how can you question the quality of the hospital if the professionals who are going to work there are the same? They're the same! You can criticize the infrastructure, that's why you're free, but please don't criticize professionals because they're the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u51	So we, Madam President, summarize: hospital running, hospital with transfer, hospital that is not back, cooperate and not hinder. [[Murmurs.]] We work in reference units, which is what people are asking for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u52	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u53	...that's what people in the south demand, especially those in Ourense and the whole southern part of Pontevedra. And let's think about what messages you have to move to citizenship with a topic as sensitive as your health and that has a lot of impact on the population. Research committee, if you like, the Vigo Council is where it is going to do so. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u54	Thank you very much. Mirror Round of Proponent Groups... [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, I don't think you've missed any intervention... No, you won't have the floor. Mr. Losada, you didn't miss the decoration of Mr. Santalices. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Colors. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but the allusions tell the president, Mr. Losada. Mr. Losada, allusions you may ask for, but the Presidency decides whether to grant them, if the intervener had really missed their decoration, something that... but they didn't miss their decoration and therefore I don't... No, no, Mr. Losada, would in no way allow them to miss their decoration as a Member, you can make it clear. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, please have the floor. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, you have no word. Quiet, please! You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u55	It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that with these applause, if they are so brave and so convinced of the good they are doing, do not go out there, before the professionals who are there claiming responsibilities. Be so brave and go out there and applaud the professionals, or the thousands of people who walked the streets of Vigo, people from all over the healthcare area, demanding responsibilities and demanding a public hospital. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Mr. Santalices, that you're just going out here to embarrass the camp, that you're just going out here to embarrass the camp, but each one does things as he deems appropriate. Look, you're talking about the hospital working. Yes, working hospital and evidence that can't be hidden, evidence that can't be hidden from people who are in there, who go to consultations and professionals, who are terrified of the conditions in which they have to develop their professional activity. That's exactly the evidence of a semi-functioning hospital. And look, you can fool some people some time, but all the time you can't do it. And the People's Party can no longer fool everyone all the time, it can't, and that's why thousands of people went out to Vigo Streets and that's why they're there workers and workers demanding correction and demanding that you know what's going on. And look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you're not innocent. When they then vote against the creation of a commission of inquiry, they will become accomplices and consensors, as they did in the past, not admitting that they had really taken steps here so that it wouldn't happen today, because they were warned. What's happening today with Vigo's new hospital is the chronicle of an announced death, because we warned by active and passive warning that what they were doing was to put public health at risk and benefit the companies of friends, benefit from cashing out the company instead of ensuring the safety of patients and professionals and their health. It's irresponsible, it's reckless, and you're complicit in that. So, I ask you, in these few seconds that remain for the vote, to rectify and vote so that, if you have nothing to hide, absolutely nothing to hide, we can investigate in this Parliament what is going on with the new Vigo hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u57	Regretably, Mr. Santalices, worthy of the bar bar. The PP manifests itself above the legality of Parliament and therefore above the Galicians and the Greeks. You will vote against investigating why €220,000 was paid to Pricewaterhouse for a report to build a hospital – a report that is missing – instead of investigating why the Government allows the construction deadlines to be breached, instead of investigating why contract defaults are allowed to violate legislation in its concession – because the contract is a public work concession and this is a public-private collaboration, instead of investigating why the risk criteria established by Eurostat are being met, which hide you that this is not accounting as a public debt when it should be, and vote against investigating a hospital that does not meet the quality criteria, a hospital that does not achieve the energy efficiency of a 21st century hospital, a hospital that has a 31.8 % less beds, a hospital that has a 31.4 % less chirophane, a hospital that has rats, which has flooding, which does not have its own energy efficiency, which has an absolute amount of payment, which it has to pay for. You're voting against investigating why they hired 4 million euros to a technical office created in an ad hoc company at the home of a former Popular Party post; instead of investigating why the hospital loses services, instead of investigating why the hospital is contaminated and moving alike. And, of course, a hospital that is not ours, obviously business oriented. The last one is to remove captors and captors to subcontract with a company that's going to put precarious workers and workers. They vote against investigating the police, theft and dismantling of public health. They vote against the people, because you are simply against the people, not only of the 200,000 people who went out on the street to shout out to them that they will no longer stand this situation – many, besides their voters – but of many and many that sooner and later they will put them where they should not be: out of those benches. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. We shall vote on the request for the commission of inquiry. Voting of the request to set up an inquiry committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. of the Alternative Galaga de Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, concerning the whole process of privatization and construction of the new hospital of Vigo Álvaro Cunqueiro. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The request for the commission of inquiry is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u59	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 3 of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Councillor for the Environment and the Sea, on his own request, to report on the current situation in the sector and on the assessment of the latest measures proposed at European and State level for the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u60	You have the floor for your first intervention by the advisor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. I compare today again in this House to account for a situation that affects around 10,000 livestock farms in this community, which has focused on the concerns of some 60,000 people linked to the Greek agribusiness. I was saying a month ago, and I repeat now, that there is a problem in the Greek milk sector. We have a conjunctural and structural problem, and we have to deal with them. It must therefore be made clear today and before this Parliament that, in conjunctural terms, no one denies that we go through a moment of adjustment and adaptation between supply and demand, and consequently the price, which makes the situation difficult, complicated and negative. In addition, structurally, we have a problem of organisational vertebration of a highly professional producer sector with cutting-edge farms and an industry that is excessively based on the packaging of liquid milk. In the face of these two situations, we have to act and we are acting. We're acting in a determined and planned way that wants to leave behind how many sirens as those who seem to offer those who give simple and direct solutions to complex and polyedral problems at their source. We've been, we're, and we're going to be working so that the yellow sheep and sheep can go ahead and live decently. We only work with that interest and with that premise, we are on their side and we are dedicated to the measures put in place, with the dedication of many people, technicians and management team of this council. I was talking about this work in my previous appearance, and I would put in nearly 650 million euros the total amount that the Union has already, or will come, to the Greek dairy sector in the next few years. These include the approaches provided for in the Rural Development Programme, which account for more than EUR 500 million by 2020. Thus, between the already paid and what is planned to be paid in the short term amount to almost EUR 150 million, of which 95.5 were direct aid to the exploitation; and, moreover, EUR 70 million that we will pay before the end of the year, which will increase the amount to EUR 17,200 per holding average. But we didn't start working yesterday, as some say. Since 2009, Galicia has taken measures to improve the competitiveness of farms, its financial and liquidity capacity and the commercial structure of the sector. It has advanced in the improvement of the territorial base of farms through land mobility laws and the Law of improvement of the land structure, and the inclusion of land of unknown owners. Also, in order to improve the financial and liquidity capacity of the sector, the decree regulating the procedure for the recognition and registration of producer organisations has been published, and the brand "gaga 100%" has been launched, which supports the identification of the differentiated quality milk produced in Galicia. Furthermore, the Council pointed out that since 2012 the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment has approved three Royal Decrees to supplement the regulation of the Law on measures to improve the functioning of the food chain. We put on the table a short, medium and long-term planning of measures, which conjugate more than twenty measures or blocks of measures in which the Union and the Central Government are working to meet the objective of getting this sector forward, and complementing other ways that must lead us to a complete change in the sector itself to avoid cyclically repeating this situation. In connection with a problem that largely covers the German and Spanish borders, the Ministry has reinforced a road to work in which it was already located and has led it to seek allies in Europe and to demand support measures from the European Commission. But these proposed administrative measures must be accompanied, if we want to avoid falling into the same well within a few months, by this complete reformulation of the milk price line and the contractual and negotiating relations between the parties in the milk sector. So by moving forward in the work that has been done for months, in these last few weeks, the Mapra and Junta are working together with the producer, industrial and distributor sector to find an output that articulates a new model of creating the most stable and equitable value of milk in the distribution of that value. On the line of work in Europe, Minister García Tejerina met in Madrid on 28 August with her counterparts from France, Italy and Portugal to join positions towards the Council of Ministers of Extraordinary Agriculture, which took place on 7 September. This meeting bore fruit that the four countries, which increased to 15 thanks to the ministry's work among European partners, had consolidated the defence of the same position that Galicia shares and whose fundamental requests were based in an important way on the review of intervention prices for a limited period of time of skimmed milk powder. In addition, private storage for cheese was also claimed to be reopened, with the aim of withdrawing supply from the market, and it was intended to inject liquidity into holdings with an increase of 50% in advance of the CAP aid. In addition, there was a call for an improvement in the promotion of milk products and the identification of origin, in addition to consolidating the operation of the Milky Market Observatory to obtain better data and provide better information. Finally, the ministers assembled at the meeting called for the establishment of a high-level group to monitor and analyse the situation of the milk market in this post-harvest scenario. In this sense, the next stop by the minister on this line of work in Europe was the meeting with Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan, which took place on 31 August. It is true that we have not had good news at this meeting, since the Commissioner has shown himself unwilling to increase the intervention price, but he is willing to improve the system of advance payments from the CAP. In addition, the Commissioner himself called for Spain's referral from the Food Chain Act to see the possibility of transposing it, mutatis mutandis, to the Community aid, as it had done with the advance payment of the CAP itself made by Galicia in 2009. This work has ended with the conclusion of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture of the European Union on 7 September. In this council, an important set of measures was agreed, with an allocation of EUR 500 million, which can be classified into three types: measures to solve the lack of liquidity of the owners, measures to stabilize markets and measures to eliminate supply chain problems. Galician holdings will benefit directly or indirectly from all these measures, among which there can be particular emphasis on new direct aid for milk beef farmers, as well as the European Commission's study of flexibility measures to make payments for CAP aid. But in addition to these measures which the European Union is approaching and in the face of the difficulty of raising the intervention price, the Council approved improvements in storage for skimmed milk powder, with an effect equivalent to what would have meant by that price rise, as they increase aid and ensure an appropriate storage time. In the same way, and achieved the other objectives put forward, the Commissioner, by the meeting countries in Madrid, was also confronted with the importance of opening up new markets in third countries, as well as increasing efforts to eliminate non-tariff barriers in those countries. Finally, the start-up of a high-level group will be focused on clear and specific issues, including funding for recipients or financial and risk management instruments, in addition to addressing also supply chain problems to propose strategic actions aimed at increasing their transparency and redistributing benefits. It must be said that in the coming days these measures will be taking place at various meetings of the Community institutions, both the Commission and the informal Council of Agriculture, which is being held today. It is therefore necessary to assess positively the decisions of the European Union, which came to refer to the work done by Spain in this way and pointed out that no country of the European Union has put on the table as many measures as Spain has done. But the line of work in Europe, if important, was the main one developed by the Ministry and the Union. The main efforts were focused on the state, and there came out two fundamental fruits: a line of direct aid and a proposal for agreement that can lead to the balance of the construction of prices to the sector and consequently to sustainability. For that, a first meeting was held between the Ministry, the producer, industrial and distributor sector, which took place on August 18th. At that meeting, a proposal was made to grant direct aid of about 300 euros per cow to those farms that were on a low price margin, a proposal that was improved by the sector's arrivals. So at that meeting we started a process of improving this aid line, which resulted in an incorporation to them with a smaller content of those farms that have problems of profitability due to economic commitments derived from improvement plans and other depreciations. This short-term line of work thus added this line of work complements and helps, in part, to sustain the sector at these difficult times by injecting liquidity, knowing that the real key to the future will be given by the agreement between the parties to make price building sustainable. For this reason, at the first meeting, already in August, the participants were given the draft proposal for a sectoral agreement on the stability and sustainability of the milk value chain and milk products, including the proposal for commitments that should be made by representatives of the dairy food distribution companies and also by cooperatives and agricultural organisations to re-evaluate the price of milk and milk products. In this sense, the proposal for an agreement raises important issues that we must consider, as the sector demanded them and they have already been picked up from the outset. The agreement promotes the identification of the source of milk in a clear and visible way and for more information to the consumer, it transparents the value chain with the near transfer prices of the industry to the distribution, so we'll know how much industry sells and the consumer will see where the benefit remains. Finally, this agreement would be almost immediate, since it comes into force at ten days, so if the signature is not delayed, it will enter into force before 1 October. In addition, the document was also drawn to the agreement which obtained some important terms of progress with regard to August. In this sense, it has been pointed out that the distribution will be integrated into a working group with Inlac, which can be a big step towards their integration into this entity, which would be very positive. Similarly, the industry undertakes to transfer and share with the creditors the re-valorization of the products obtained from the distribution and the integration of the first buyers into the document, which would be part of that transparency and progress in contractualization. In addition, this new draft was accompanied by an important issue, which consists of a firm commitment from the Map to be set up as a guarantor of the agreement, and it has to show the decision to raise to the real decree the basic issues that the agreement comes up with, which, by giving it normative rank, would create the obligation to comply with and the possibility to sanction. Since then, and in the light of the opinion of the meeting participants, we can be close to a positive agreement for all, which allows us to see how the price is built and to bring transparency to the consumer by better defining their ability to choose. We are faced with a proposal for an agreement that, similar to French, could give rise to a historical understanding, as was already outstanding the agreement reached at the beginning of last week in Inlac between producers and industry, and whose terms were collected in full in the draft presented last Thursday. With this support and taking into account the public transmission and integration of small flakes into the document, it seems that the text has the agreement of a part of the producer sector, of the whole industry and of distribution, and of a key figure as cooperatives. Both lines of work were analyzed and discussed in Galicia with the producer sector on two occasions: last Wednesday and Friday, while the situation and the measures proposed by the Galician Union with distribution, industry and the producer sector were analysed on 5 August. This ongoing dialogue follows the lines of around 100 meetings with dairy agents and representatives if they have dealt with matters of interest to the sector itself in the coming year. Furthermore, Galicia's proposals and demands have also been brought to the ministry in relation to the European line of work and the agreement. We understand that it has yielded positive fruit for the livestock and will bring more stability to the sector. On the other hand, we continue to work so that the projected measures will go forward as soon as possible and can bear fruit for the gainers in this difficult situation they are going through. Thus, the Board of Trustees has already given green light to the corresponding budgetary commitment to enable aid to inject liquidity into dairy farms with approaches to loan moratoriums linked to the improvement of farms and the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity. These arrivals may benefit holders of dairy holdings who request a period of absence of up to two years in the amortisation of the loan granted on their day to support investments in improvement of holdings and incorporation of young people into agriculture. In total, the beneficiaries may be about 1,100 milk holding owners, who will not have to pay for two years, neither amortization nor interest. In addition, we have already launched the campaign to promote Greek milk, where your lordships will have heard or seen announcements of promotions of "Galga 100%" and which will soon be completed with differentiation of brands that can be used in the supermarket lines. In the same way we are also moving forward to have this month's promotional initiative of small tetrabriks of "Galga 100%" to promote the consumption of milk among children and which will be added to one carried out by Inlac itself. Therefore, Fogga's staff are redoubled efforts to enable the advance payment of the CAP on October 16, as we also work on the direct injection line of liquidity, which together with the help of the Ministry per cow, will reduce the level of the economic suffocation that drowns certain dairy farms. But we know that with this work the problem is not solved forever. The stability and sustainability of the sector must come to an agreement to improve the value chain and its construction and to make structural changes to the organizational capacity of the producer sector and the formula for transforming milk. All this, which is collected in the Ministry's proposal for an agreement, leads us to collect the widest possible group we've ever had, taking advantage of everything that legality allows us in favour of the dairy sector and even overburdening similar agreements from countries around us. This agreement is a positive and historic step in terms of the sector itself and for the first time it collects the duties of industry and distribution. I am convinced that together we will be able to improve our dairy sector. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u62	Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u63	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. You do what you can, better said, what you let them do, not what you should do. When a political leader or leader, in this case the president of the Galician Union, in a situation of national, humanitarian, economic and social catastrophe, such as what is happening in our country with the dairy sector, declares that what is legally possible will be done, and what results from that "what is possible" is not sufficient and adequate for the immediate resolution of the problem, this political leader must assume his ineptitude and inability to rule and resign, him and all his government team. Because, Counsellor, the images and the results of what has been seen are that you as a stone guest to a peak of all the agents involved under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture in Madrid, as a political decision centre of a matter that for the State is residual – we could say it belongs to the eid of folklore – but in Galicia we speak of a productive sector vital to their survival as a country. His presence is limited to collecting the sayings of his master's voice, that is, the People's Party, which governs in the state, and the large companies in the food sector, the free market and the party that defends his principles. From there, that "what one can do," which, translated into reality, into sad reality, means what they let us do. For many kind and supportive statements they make, like "encompassment with the glovers," "how not to support the glovers!", the situation of the dairy sector in Galicia is unsustainable. You don't represent the interests of Galicia and its population, without a voice on that summit, and dare, at the height of cynicism, to present us as good one or even agreement, a pre-agreement, a pre-agreement, one promises you, that you don't even contemplate the urgency and periphery that is for this country the problem of the dairy sector. They want to convince the gourds, they want to convince us all, and I would say – I think – that they want to convince themselves that the meeting and the conclusions reached are a great step forward for the recovery of the sector and of the families living on farms, and that it is magnificent. That's not true, Counselor. There's a lot of you in that arrangement. No inspections and sanctions are envisaged for those who fail to comply and no provision is made for the annulment of the Leonine contracts prior to the agreement. They lie and disguise reality. Miguel Blanco, secretary general of the COAG, calls the draft very generic and unsecured that distribution and industry derive trade margins so that the landowners reach a level of profitability within a given period of time that should be realized. You can't say a near future, very soon; it's urgent, it has to be today. There are neither legal guarantees nor actions expected to confirm the will to comply with the agreement, for example, that in future contracts with producers prices will not continue below. The expression "sustainable price" is not specified, nor will it be reflected in the immediateness with which to begin to re-repeat the rates paid to the gourds, if it is not through, as the PP has accustomed us, a declaration of mere intentions. According to Roberto García of the Agrarian Union, the draft does not define the concept of "sustainable price" so that there is no free interpretation, but it is based on 33 cents per litre, and does not provide sanctions for those who do not comply with this. Sad, I'd say. I regret the role of those who are supposed to represent us and that of the interests of the Greeks. You move, you obey, you serve and serve before the powers other than those who rule us. Who do you want to fool, Counselor? Of course, not the gloves, who, despite the fact that the tractors were removed, still stand in struggle. In the meantime, you repeat your triumphalist speech by means of a taped record. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Dimita, Counselor, you and the President of the Galician Council, for mismanagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u64	For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor of the Rural Environment. Where's the president of the Galician Union? Yesterday the platform, the glovers, asked you and the president of the Galician Union for an emergency meeting again because it is about to expire one of the deadlines that was granted for the realization of that agreement that you nicknamed magnificent and what we will talk about later, and of course, the chairman of the Galician Union did not give them an answer. Now we know why he couldn't answer them: because, first, he was campaigning for a xenophobic in Catalonia, and now he's teaching them Spanish to Italians, which I know is something that is very necessary for them to know how they say "the red tapes" and for them to be "the red tapes" and the important work they do. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, we regret that you are not here to solve the most important dairy crisis in our country's history, the crisis of one of the sectors that we all agree to define as a strategic sector, like the backbone of the agricultural economy. And yet when that spine is full of hernias from above and suffers from the worst of their crises, the president of the Galician Union takes those of Villadiego and disappears from the country. Look, Counselor, if I were an alien who just appeared in this Parliament today and listened to his intervention, I'd think that these thousands of sheep, who have been on the streets of our country for a month and a half, on the roads of our country and that in the last couple of weeks they've intensified their mobilizations, they're kind of greedy beings who want to mow us, instead of their cows, to the Greek society. Because you, Counselor, came here to talk to us about something the greedy are not talking about. I don't know if you've found out that what the landowners are asking for is a very simple thing: fair prices, decent prices, prices that cover the costs of production and pay for their work. You came here again, just as you came in the previous appearance and as we've been listening to the Ministry for two months, with the canteen of the aid, with the canteen of the molasses, and listen carefully, listen carefully, Counsellor: the sector is not asking for help, the dairy sector does not have an immediate liquidity problem, which is a price problem. Because, look, Counsellor, how much do you think that we will pay for loans for two years, how much, as proposed by the Ministry, if new credits and new credits are financed to acquire new credits, how do you think the payers and the payers will ever pay those credits? how will they deal with that tax burden if they don't even have a chance to face up to date the expenses of their holdings? How do you think, Counsellor, that a sector that is charging under 7 cents and more on numerous occasions – but, of course, that is the average of official data than it costs to produce each liter of milk – can solve the situation with a liquidity problem? How do you think, Counselor, that these 300 miserable euros for those who charge less than 24 cents of the liter and 110 for those who charge less than 27 cents of the liter that the minister promised them can get them to solve the problem? That, by the way, you never talk about that help being only for the first 50 cows. Anyway, even if it was for all the cows multiplied by two, it would still not solve the problem in the sector. And look, Counsellor, precisely and curiously you finished your intervention with two statements: with the assertion that, in fact, all these measures that you told us about, that 500 million rosary, from millions up and down, would not solve the situation of the sector because what they have is a value chain problem and its construction, you said, and also a transformation problem. And curiously, Counselor, that's what the sector has to do with the problems that thousands of sheep have been showing up for months is what you haven't told us here today, what really matters. You came here to sell us hundreds of holders of hundreds of millions of euros, but you didn't tell us what matters. He didn't tell us what that means of "sustainable price" and, above all, how it's going to be done in practice. You didn't tell us what is essential and what the sector is demanding. And, look, I'd like you to make your own, too, because you said here that the sector has historically defined the agreement that the Ministry offered you last Thursday. I would also like to see what is happening in the streets of this country, in the industries of this country, in the farms of this country, which you have given me to what and who said that agreement is historic. Do you think people who have been offering us this terrible picture do it willingly? Do you think the gloves love to wipe their lairs with milk? Do you think anyone who works to earn his livelihood eventually wants to get the fruit out of his work? Do you think, Counselor, that if that deal of what you came here today was as magnificent and as historic as you repeat as parrots, the gloves and the Welsh gourds would keep pulling hundreds of thousands of gallons of milk that are fruit from your work? Look, Counselor, you always accuse us of not making proposals. I'm going to use the last three minutes of my intervention not to analyze point-by-point all the inconcretions that put that deal last week in Madrid and that lacks concretion. And in fact, it is possible that if any of these things put on these three sheets we might have some sort of realization we might be before the start of some progress, but there is, as I said to you, the most important thing; look, there is, a warrant for guarantees, there is no decree defining what sustainable prices are and, above all, what mechanisms will be made available to gainors and gainors to comply with those guarantee mechanisms. There is a lack, Counsellor, which is established, within this revaluation of the value chain of which you speak to us and within that transfer of value to producers and producers, which are determined which are the indices to calculate how much the owners are going to charge and, above all, which are to be the profit margins for the different links in the milk value chain. And that, Counsellor, only the gain and the gain may know: if there is a model of contract approved of that, by the way, it also speaks of this agreement, but we don't know when it will be at the disposal of the gain and the gain. And there is a lack, Counsellor, a first step which is essential to overcome the crisis situation that we have right now: that they should be cancelled, that they should declare themselves null and void, all the subscribed contracts made by the owners, that they have subscribed to the industries for the next few periods and that they are again contracts at the bottom. Look, Counsellor, the concrete proposal we make to you since the Galician Nationalist Bloc is that you take into account two factors: one, the competences that you, the Galician Union, have in the field of agriculture, collected in Article 30.3 of the Autonomy Statute, exclusive competences in agriculture and gain, given that we are 40% – more than 40% – of the State's milk production and therefore the only ones – most of them, but especially the only ones – and the only ones who are interested in progressing in the dairy sector are the Greeks and the Galician. And we can't wait for the Ministry to react to a problem that is essentially a Greek problem. What we propose to you, Counsellor, is that if you really want to push the legal framework to be placed, as you say, on the side of the milk sector, I am using it here today that even today consists of a commission made up of all the links in the sector so that in that commission, with the participation of the winners as well as with the legal and technical services of the Board of Galicia, if you start to draw up a proposal already to urge the Ministry that this is the proposal which is approved to give this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u67	...that, if not, it will be wet paper that gave the minister last Thursday. A proposal for a royal decree to establish these guarantees, a proposal for an approved contract setting out how to set up the price to guarantee what is written: that it is a sustainable price and that it repays the work and the costs of our country's farms, and also that they be put to work to immediately cancel all those infamous contracts that the industry has forced them to sign to the owners. Counsellor, I believe that this is within your powers, that it does not violate any legal framework and that it is the only gesture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u68	Finish it, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u69	...that would make you really say that the Greek Government is on the side of the gain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u71	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. With all due respect, much blah, blah, blah and little wheat, Counselor lady, and also with a canteen we have known of memory. You were talking about some structural and other conjunctural problems. What you didn't say is that these problems that you call conjunctions were very predictable. And it's not like we say it now last bull, it's like we said it here almost a year ago. It's just that we didn't say it here in Parliament, that it says it to anyone who knows about it; they knew what could happen in a final context of the quota system, Counsellor. And then, in front of a predictable scenario, that of the end of the quota system, it can't take two months to give solutions or clues to solutions. That's the problem. Counsellor, you are not on the side of the gloves, you have never proved it; just as they are not on the side of public health, they are on the side of Punica. Counsellor, the one to be next to the gloves must prove it by the facts and throughout history and not by the speech. On July 17, the day of the great mobilization at Compostela, the initial, that began the mobilizations of the glovers when they had been preparing for several months and when you said that everything was all right, you said on Galician TV that the problem was not so much and that the demonstrations were not useful, Counselor. Well, look, if any industry is starting to promise price increases, it's not because of its work, it's thanks to the mobilization of the gainers and also to which the German society has supported and supported the situation of the gainers. And do you know why they have popular support for the mobilisations of the owners – who can obviously cause trouble? Because many of the citizenship, many of the workers and workers in this country, if they feel identified with workers whose work, from sun to sun, does not give them to live. Because it's not just about the dairy sector, is it that more and more workers, even though they have work, can't afford them to live decently, do you understand, Counselor? So there's a society that mobilizes itself and that you have to listen to force, even if you don't want it. If they hadn't mobilized, you'd be in the speech they were four months ago, when there was already the problem. Look, in France the Government, while you said it wasn't so much, it was already sitting with industry and distribution, and July 24 made a deal, and today we are on September 15 – two months, Counsellor – and you now assume an agreement, not yet accepted by the sector, which looks much like that of France; two months, Counselor, in front of a scenario that entered into the forecast. See, political recommendations of the Committee on Regions of 30 July 2013 – to see what you did when it was already known that quotas would be completed –: the urgent request to carry out supplementary studies to assess the territorial impact of quota suppression; the request to carry out a realistic assessment of the prospects for production, domestic consumption and export in the medium and long term; the request to conduct a comparative study of the milk policies of the large producer countries, as well as a precise assessment of Swiss developments, which had already been released years earlier; the request to assess the impacts of existing bilateral trade negotiations – and that does not mean to come here, when Mr Feijó goes to Mexico, that we have been talking about milk and so, have set something of this, Counsellor?–; the request to examine the possibilities of adapting to the European Union certain measures taken by other states to manage the possible milk crises. Did they do anything about this? We don't know anything, we don't know that strategic plan that you've already, once the mobilizations started, said you're willing to do with the unions. After several months of starting the end of the quota system, you are prepared to draw up a strategic plan. And what have they done before, Counselor? So less speech and more facts. You're not next to the gain, because it's not the first time they've left this sector, it's not the first time they've left the money and the money. You demand, you ask the sector, to organize, to transform products, to work on R & D+I, and what have you done? You, every time farmers tried to organize themselves to create their own industrial complexes, boycotted their attempts, in 2012, with Milk Food, in the 90s with Leyma. Counsellor, what have you done with the attempt to create a group of Greek milk, what have you done with milk? As you didn't politically control an initiative of the cooperatives in which Feiraco was, they torpedoed the project, supported five cooperatives and put in front of two of the People's Party's friends; they wasted eight million euros. And now you come to demand the sector that is organized, and what have you done, Counselor? What happens is that there are conflicting interests and, whenever there are contradictions and tensions in those conflicting interests, the rope you always break on the same side. You told the livestock and livestock of this country to bet on the model that you said was that of modernization, that of intensive production, that of indebtedness to buying quota, to buy technology; you bet on an intensive and non-extensive model of land use; you didn't do the duties in territorial management or on the increase of the territorial base; you told them that they had to be efficient and competitive and the owners did the duties; those that didn't do the duties were you. And we don't believe in that model for this country, we believe that the model that you ideologically defend for the milk of this country is detrimental to the livestock and livestock of this country. What you call free market, free trade, is just, as it is proving, giving more and more tools to the Carrefour, the Alcampo and the Mercadona so that they are those who design the agricultural policies of the countries and increasingly leave unprotected the livestock and the landowners. Or wasn't it predictable, in a deregulation scenario, lowering prices, price volatility, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Of course it was predictable. And you said, before the end of the quota system, that it was an opportunity for Galicia, or did I invent these words, Counselor? "It's an opportunity for Galician gain." It's an opportunity for Galicians when all the people reporting on the matter said that those countries that didn't have a powerful transformer industry, that didn't have a territorial basis, etc., competed at a disadvantage. And what did you guys do to get the yellow gangsters and women to compete on equal terms with the countries of the environment? Have you improved the territorial base of the farms? Have you helped to have a transformation industry? Have you helped make a complex of agricultural, agricultural, agricultural R & D, in this country, Counsellor? No, all that would help the gloves not to compete in disadvantage you unattended them, we don't know if because of lack of will or lack of ability, comes to be the same for practical purposes. Where was that strategic plan, Counselor? There wasn't. You have neglected the most basic duties, you have sent a document of the Rural Development Programme – I will not tire of repeating it – that must reject the agricultural policies of this country of 2014-2020 which is not yet approved in which no paragraph of the impact that would eventually have on the small and medium-sized farms would have on the back system. And, as I said before, if they're starting to see some price rises proposals from industry or some movement from the Ministry or the Galician Union, it's because they've been showing up for almost two months, and they're not partying. And you know what it costs a person who has a gainful exploitation to be in the streets with the tractors, and you know what it costs to be around the day blocking the industries, going to mug into the house and having to take that milk out, you know it, and you know what the economic situation of these livestock today is. Thanks to that, they're starting to move; those mobilizations that you despised, that you said they didn't serve for anything, that you said that they would, if they served, they would stand in front of you. Now there's a document approved in the Ministry, and, in theory, that canteen that says – there's something positive, of course, but it's nothing new – that you said here about the balance of the chain and transparency in business relations, it's already solved. In the agreement with Mr Feijóo in November 2012 it had already been settled with the milk package, it had already been resolved with the reform of the milk package. So the gloves and we are full of false promises that never lead to reality. So that's what the gangsters are going to demand: facts and not words. We know that the glovers, because of their economic, anemic situation, etc., are looking forward to returning to their normal life, and we know that they need to sell milk in order to be able to live, in order to pay the loans...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u73	...but I also give a humble advice to the rulers – and they will have our support – that they don't come down the guard, that they don't trust you, because you're not trustworthy, because it's not the first time. Can not get message: %s %s Greeders and society are already an active democratic power, because society appreciates the work they do in our rural areas and because there are a lot of people in all sectors who we know that you lead us to a model of workers' exploitation. There's a lot of people in that fight and the gangsters aren't alone. We can't trust a government that's been betraying the moneywinners and the moneywinners for thirty years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u75	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. I want to say first of all that we will request with great interest that agreement that Mr Feijó is signing with FAO today, because we are convinced of its importance. The gainers, if anything, are supportive and will therefore understand perfectly and thank you for working together in a convention that is surely so important and in such an important amount, and in addition to a work as commendable as FAO. We will ask you to see how important that agreement is. And I would like to begin by transferring, on behalf of this group, the Socialist Group and the Greek Socialists, a message of courage, solidarity and our support without any kind of buts or any kind of nuances to all the gloves and gloves who are now at the doors of the industries, who have been mobilising for two months and who have been out of their house for a week, neglecting their work, neglecting their exploitation, sleeping on the street, before Lugo and now in Santiago, before the industries, before the sun and now with cyclogenesis, until three days ago by misselling their milk and since three days ago by pulling it and removing its tracks with it. We think we should start here, because it's good once again that everyone is in their place, wherever they want to be. So without any doubt – I repeat – without any crack, no nuance, no nuance, no kind of but, we're with the gloves that follow in the mobilizations and demand solutions. If this was a normal country, if the president of Galician Union was a normal president, today he would have to be here, except when we knew the FAO convention, which I don't know if he'll convince us otherwise. But in addition, he would have to have appeared already, as we asked him at the time, in early August, and as they did, in addition to all the opposition groups, as all the representatives have done for a long time ago. That would be normal. Nor would it be normal for the majority group of this House, the People's Party that supports the Government, to prevent these kinds of appearances in the same place, at the same time and on the same day as many of its mayors, many of my leaders and many of their visible heads were supporting the mobilizations that were in many parts of this country. If you had been a regular advisor for more than a year, you would have, Counselor, understood that, in fact, we had a very serious problem and that, because of the joint meeting, it would become an almost terminal problem. But it's true that citizens in general and private gainers are already very accustomed to, when there's a problem, the Greek Government is not. First, deny it and this phase lasts as long as possible – we have increased this phase as far as possible: there is no problem and we are all crazy; there is no problem – then we lie down and, in the next phase, which is the final stage, we follow the maximum of Mr Feijóo, who, in addition, I am listening to him at the Council meeting: in the face of a problem, counsellors, we do not spend a single second looking for solutions, but rather we devote all our efforts to seeking, first, to those who blame him and, second, to whom to move that problem. And that's what happened, we've seen the timing of the events in recent months: the German Government, with the president in mind, first said it wasn't true. Only when the problem has gone through... because Mr. Feijóo's problem is not the dairy sector, nor that of the German Government, the problem of Mr. Feijóo is the mobilizations. So when there were mobilizations, it was when there were problems; until then there was no problem. And immediately, he didn't have any kind of noise at once immediately, at the first meeting with the gloves, to get the problem off the top, and, if we use a football-like, according to the ball, to grab a ball -- understand the ball not to let the ball go, but to give it the best -- so that next day I had the problem with Minister Tejerina. Of course, Minister Tejerina, also imbued with Mr. Feijóo's philosophy and emulating... - let's advertise our own and, besides, female football, the best version of Vero Boquete. Of course, the tickets usually go to the door, but, in this case, Mrs. Tejerina takes that same ticket and immediately shoots, three days later, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of Europe. In fact, the Council of Europe saw a player ahead of time to throw him another ticket, but there was no one ahead and they had to stop the ball, throw it to the ground, start again and move the problem back to where he was. It's true that it's not worth anything, we don't score goals, we don't face the problem, but we've been messing up for two months, and that's what you're doing. It's true that there was an injustice. The minister himself told you at the meeting of the Sectoral Conference – and he said publicly, in addition, in a newspaper that is not suspected of being Marxist-Leninist – that if there was indeed a situation worse than the milk in Galicia than in the rest of the communities would be because autonomous communities would not have done everything they had to do, because otherwise the minister did not understand it. And it is also true that the European Council actually said that if that situation were different it would be because there would be certain imbalances in certain competences that countries would have to do. But, indeed, in the meantime, we messed up, because we haven't lost a minute in this problem. First, because they didn't want it to be a problem; and according to –and there are consistent – because, if the problem you think is not yours and you have to send it out, you can't waste any time fixing it. I repeat, if there was a normal government, if you were a normal advisor, even after all this that happened to the gloves in the streets, pulled, the responsible advisor in the matter, I understand that I would come to Parliament today – if the president did not come – and would address the gainers who are there to answer at least three questions, or four: do we have or have no problem, Counsellor? Do the yellow thugs have a problem? I mean, the livestock that are out there today in front of the industries -- and it's not the problem if many or few -- whether they're red or green, whether they're from this province or another -- who's there, are they right or not? Is it sustainable that the yellow gainers continue to charge the milk as they came? Is that a hangover? Is that fair? Can we – as stewards, you as advisor, the president of the board as president of the Galician Union, this country, ultimately – allow us to continue to charge the milk as they were? Yes or no? That's what we have to answer. So if they're there, they're right for us. For you, Counselor, are you right or not? You come to talk here – and the gloves have exhausted all the ways, we cannot accuse them, precisely, of impatience, of the agreements. Counselor, those agreements are obviously not worth it, they're not worth it; that part we've already lived it. What part don't you understand, that you're not worth those agreements? You think if you were using the agreements that you're upset with, who's losing money, who was the foot of all the chain that was most damaged, wouldn't you go home? Someone explain it to me. You, Counselor, how do you explain it? How's your deal worth it? They're not worth it, of course, Counselor. Do you really think if they weren't on the edge of the cliff, they wouldn't go back to their work? Actually, it's just that the livestock don't trust each other. Man, you have a lot of reasons not to trust yourself, Counselor. Do you remember the redundancy of this agreement? You signed it. What's left of this? What's left of this? What was that? How will you be trusted, Counselor? How will Mr. Feijóo be trusted? It's normal they don't trust each other. It's normal they don't trust each other! How did they trust each other? And you come here to talk about certain initiatives, Madam Counsellor, with the current legislation and with the current political initiative, all that you're talking about is what you're going to do, what can't be done? Or couldn't it be, since the distribution said how they bought the milk? Or is the sale of milk to loss no longer prohibited in the food chain law? Or was the milk-sustainable product – which everyone repeatedly failed, and no one said or mu – was it not already in progress? Or is voluntary labelling...? By the way, they had a few months' chance to make it compulsory and voted against, and voted against many initiatives where it was asked to be... yes, it was in Europe. So, Counselor, what do you come to tell us about the agreements? How are you going to trust the same guy who's signed at 30, now he's paying at 20 and now he says he's gonna be good? How did they trust each other? Counselor, with all that legislation that already existed, you could do all that now they say what you're going to do, and they haven't. Counsellor, if we agree that if those who are losing money are the greedy, in which those who are bored are the greedy, those who cannot negotiate are the greedy, and those who, in addition, have to be milking for three days are the greedy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u77	Someone comes up with a deal that's good for the owners and that's going to impact that they better cover the milk, and you say that the owners have become tambourines and they don't want to sign? No, I say it as an explanation, because I, if not, don't understand; I don't understand. That's what you keep: if all this is good, and it's good for them, how don't you sign, Counselor? Won't you be wrong? Counselor, it continues to fall into the same mistake, it continues to fall into the same mistake as it was a year and a half ago. There are no shortcuts in this problem. This doesn't shoot with four meetings, this doesn't shoot with four nonsense – sorry, withdrawal or nonsense –, with four pilgrimage measures that may be right on the paper. Those times have passed, you've exhausted all the extensions, it's been a year and a half dizzying the partridge, Counselor. It won't end the mobilizations, because you, instead of working, dedicated yourself to it. But if it ends with mobilization, it doesn't think it ends with the problem, the problem will continue there and it will continue to generate poverty and misery in many communities, and one day someone will transfer responsibility to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u78	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I dare say that we have already begun to respond to one of the questions that Mr García has raised here: yes, there is a problem; yes, we are in a crisis situation; yes, the Government of Greece, since we took possession of the first legislation, where we had government responsibilities, we were able to articulate actions, measures and concretes for the dairy sector so that this situation... that today, Mrs. Paz, we say today is a situation that directly affects the Greek dairy sector. But, ladies and gentlemen, no political group is free, when they have responsibilities of government, mobilization, pressure from production on the street. Do you remember any crises...? Because we also hear Mr. Sánchez today saying that the problem of the disappearance of contingection, of the contingency system, is one of the justifications for finding us in this situation today. Mr. García, with this system there was also a crisis in milk, there were also mobilizations in the streets, with nationalist officials in the Government, with socialist officials in the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that while we all do not address the need for dialogue, consensus and to push everyone in the same direction, we will not be able to do what we have to do, which is to respond to the responsibility that citizens, the owners and the owners of the farms have deposited with the political leaders. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today we hear the middle lady voicer from the Joint Group saying that the Government is inept, or that she was talking about qualifying it as ineptitude. Ladies and gentlemen, when the action of the opposition that the Joint Group is doing will change the action of the Government? Do you think you are representative of a gainful producer sector enough to be able to have the alternatives and make a splendid drafting of the milk situation? But do you believe, from your position in the opposition, that you can influence and change the government's performance? I believe that you, Mrs Churches, are a political [...] that comes to us... yes, ma'am, it is a... you can denigrate, criticize us, call us all the qualifications you have in your dictionary, but when you are a clear example of the mistrust society places on a political group that is defeated, advised, that they use the gain sector, that they manipulate, gentlemen, because what you have been saying in the gallery in this Parliament and from the government since the beginning of these problems is that they solve with the unity of production. [[By order of the President, Santalices Vieira, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]] [[Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro speaks words that are not perceived.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, production – and we see it very clearly in the mobilizations of these days – is not united, and, despite that, production is able to manifest itself, to make itself visible, to visualize the problem, despite the political leaders who, like you and despite the political leaders who, like you, have approached to make a fool, to take out a tractor, to be able to join. Mr. Garcia, who are you going to listen to on this occasion? Because you claim that the German Government, despite all measures, actions, direct aid, alms. It's just that if you're putting yourself on the table at all, we're even leading, elbowed with elbows, with France, with that great comparison, with that great model that we have to make ourselves... we're all going out of hand, but you're not, you're the only ones who are sinning of incoherents. Because, Mr. Garcia, when I am not able to join a proposal for an agreement beneficial to all, when you are able to continue supporting, sponsoring mobilizations... yes, Mr. Garcia, because you recently said in a debate that you were unionist, that you belonged – to a lot of honour – to agricultural organizations. And now who will listen to the agricultural organizations or their party? Because the loudspeaker – his partner – even yesterday turned off the mobilizations. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think I... I read the media wrong. Did Mr. Méndez Romeo not qualify as responsible for those who are blocking the industries to their own owners? Do mobilizations not have an impulse from agricultural organizations, from a platform? Yes, because Mrs Peace brought us here... (The honest lady speaks words that are not perceived.) It's not about those who protest, don't misunderstand again, because they've done so many times and put in their words the wrong interpretations that the political group's advisor or spokespersons to whom I represent blamed for production. [[Murmurs.]] No, Your Honor, we blame the representatives of production, who were unable to have a single voice in mobilizations, in which it was found that they have no capacity for production, the owners, to trust them, because they do not represent them. Because, Mrs. Peace, you can ask us for a commission here. What did he say? A commission to prepare a proposal for a royal decree to solve a Greek problem. Do you remember when you said that the dairy sector was experiencing a problem of supra-autonomic carousel? I remember because I checked the Session Diaries of those mobilizations. But you were talking about drawing up or the need for a committee, and the representatives of production are represented or integrated in that committee, right? Do you remember when, a year ago, an entity or association that was interviewed or met with the political leaders of the parliamentary groups called for it to be considered as a valid interlocutor of production, rather than to put concrete measures and actions on the table? No, what really mattered was to concreteize his position, his interaction with the Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, what is really to be respected is the tireless work, 24 hours a day, but not from the last few months, but from the beginning of the responsibilities of the different legislatures, the favor of the sector, because yes, we have here Mr Sánchez, who is able to criticize an intensive model. Mr. Sánchez, you stand in front of the tractors, next to and beside the glovers to defend their interests, and at the same time states that this model does not serve, that in thirty years of the People's Party's governments, where we were able to bring up competitive exploitations, farms where the holders, in addition to genetically improving their investments in technology, to improve their dimension, also from the territorial base, Mr. Sánchez... because we remember that the only governments of the People's Party have put upon the table the only normative tools to change that reality, bad that they care. But you are able to defend a productive model to the owners of the holding and, at the same time, to make proposals as models of food sovereignty, sustainable models. And then isn't the current one a sustainable model? Does he not follow and pursue the European Union's lines and guidelines? Mr. Sánchez, you can't be an alternative because the president is working for Galicia, for Galicia, but his leader doesn't know what he's doing. The only one who hasn't moved in these thirty years was the leader of the Gaga de Left Alternative; and by what we see and by the announcements they make, he will remain unchanged. This leader wasn't able to change the reality or the Government of Galicia, and do you think the Greeks and the Greeks will trust that leader? For what? To establish productive models that have a clear profit margin example in other countries where you are with government responsibilities, those productive models that you bring to the House? Do you remember a proposal – in the debate of last year's state of autonomy – of resolution where you claimed that the strategic model for Galicia was sustainable growth?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u81	Indeed, Counsellor, you are putting on the table the only guarantee that the Germans and the Germans, the only guarantor to continue leading a sector, to conform the value chain so that we can all not only survive, but consolidate, continue to be referring to the European level of production of Greek milk, which is a pity to the opposition. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u82	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mrs Iglesias. Mrs. García Pacín, I ask you if we can remove the parasitic word. Thank you, thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The parasite expression is removed. Replica. Counselor of the Middle Rural and the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, I suppose you'll be where you were in 2008. That said, I think I've said a lot. I, in fact, Mrs Iglesias, think I'd resign if I was actually lying to the livestock sector at some point. I would resign if at some point I had come to this House lying. I'd resign if at any time someone could have me hiding my head. I'd resign there. But I've never really told a lie to Greek society, I've never told a lie to my sector, and I'll never lie to it. Others will know where they have to hide their heads! Others will have to explain! [[Applause]] I am tired of repeating throughout the summer that here the only thing worth us was an agreement with the French; 34 cents, as they did in France, agreement with the French. He had to come to the French minister here to say: There is no agreement to the French. He had to come in person. Of course!, it is to say here that the minister is not involved in the solution of this problem...! I think some of them were on vacation not in July and August, they've been on vacation since 2008. Because, of course, to get a minister throughout the month of August to bring Spain to the Minister of France, to the Minister of Italy, to the Minister of Portugal, to meet here and reach a consensus position among all these countries which she herself has sent to the President of the Commission, to the Commissioner, I believe that it is to be involved in solving a problem. Another thing is talking. Of course! We all have the hemerotheque, and we all have to face the sector. And what you can't tell the sector is when we're in government and tell the sector something else when we're in opposition. What you can't say is that we have a president who isn't next to the dairy sector. And we also have to endure today to see where the president of the board is, on the way, instead of being with the dairy sector, when he's signing for the first time in history a collaboration agreement with FAO – which I don't have to tell him who that organization is – in defense of the Greek fishing sector. The truth is, I think we have a president of the board who has been, he is and will always be with the primary sectors of Galicia, and so he's been accredited, and so he's working on defending this sector. Look, in order to defend the dairy sector, it has been defending itself by increasing the aid of the coupled payments of the common agricultural policy by 63%. That's working to defend the sector! And what can't be done is to get the words out of context. I never said the cattle sector had a problem. Of course you do! What I said, and I deny it, and I will continue to deny it, is that it's the biggest crisis in history, because that's a mistake. We have the data, we have the reflections, we have the graphics, and you know that in the spring of 2009 the average price of milk was the lowest in Galicia's history, that was a critical moment. Where were you guys in 2008? They were saying: President Touriño shares the concern of farmers and believes that the only solution is the agreement. Touriño demands that the European Union exit to the surplus milk. And he says: The president also called for transparency for negotiations between producers and industry and advocated maintaining the approved contract and the standard invoice. Ladies and gentlemen, in that situation we find ourselves today. We have a historic possibility. We have an agreement which I suppose you'll all have read, even though sometimes one has doubts when you hear that you're not talking about sustainability. The agreement is: Proposal for an agreement on the stability and sustainability of the value chain of the beef and milk sector. And he says: The various actors involved in the value chain of the dairy sector express, through this agreement, their commitment to work for stability and value-building along the chain, and to achieve sustainable and paid prices in each stretch of the chain. You know that this is a historic agreement that has been recognised by all the parts that work in jail. You know that Inlac, which is where the producer and industry are, has reached an agreement, for the first time in their history, to get him to the ministry, and all the points they agreed to appear gathered in this document. You know that this document gives the ministry the function of guaranteeing compliance with these agreements. You know that this document gives Inlac the possibility of studying the value chain for each month, to see how prices are transparent. You know that in this document the distribution is committed to distributing the price so that the highest price will always remain in the weakest link of the string. You're supposed to read this document. I ask you, please, to encourage all the owners to read the document, to share the document, to see that in this document you put all that you can legally put and that there is a reference to the Royal Price Assignment Decree, that there is a reference to the Food Chain Law, that you seek to transparent that price construction, and that the sanctioning regulations are made, and are made in the Food Chain Act, the Trade Law and the Consumer Law. Ladies and gentlemen, don't fool anyone, defend our sector. Help them make a deal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u84	Thank you very much, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches. You can do it from here if you like, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u85	Give me a voice on the scene, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u86	You already have a voice on the scene. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u87	Thank you, President. Parliamentary Lady of the People's Party, political parasitic is the politician who professionalizes politics in their interests and cares about everything that happens to the people, both in rights and in social welfare, as country projects, etc. That's a political parasite, which professionalizes politics and lives on its own without taking into account its functions and obligations! Counsellor, you will be very happy with that agreement and with the measures that are supposed to take place. She does not believe all her prognosis until the commitments required by the owners of the German milk sector are signed. At this point, this honourable Member will congratulate the Government if they achieve something, which I doubt, because for the moment there are only declarations of good intentions as has always been so far. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u88	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I'm so confused that I'm proud of myself with this French deal. You, in the first intervention, said that this proposal in agreement with the ministry – I said literally – is similar to French. In the second intervention he said there was no French agreement, so he'll understand that I'm... that... that I'm making myself confused! How do you want, Counsellor, that we will inform you of something or the producers if you do not seem to clarify yourself? [[Applause]] Look, I just want to tell you one thing. I don't know if the 9,300 holders of Welsh dairy have read this document. It tells me that this document has been distributed among all the dairy producers in this country who are participating in the mobilizations, and therefore have the opportunity to read it. And you also tell me that, of course, producers don't seem as historic as you do. Because, look, the difference between the French Government – for example, by setting an example – the German Government and the Spanish Government is that, in fact, the word intervention is allergic to you, even if that intervention is not in breach of competition rules. You always look behind the National Competition Market Commission, and on the other hand, there are states of the European Union like France, but also like Germany, like Italy, like Belgium, like Denmark or the United Kingdom, more and more are the states of the European Union that they do to intervene when they detect a few tenths of fever in their dairy sector, and to you, even though the sector is on the verge of dying from hyperthermia, it does not seem to them to be appropriate or even prescribe paracetamol. Look, Counsellor, I urge you, the payees don't say that this draft agreement, this proposal according to the Ministry, solves all their problems. In fact, I've already told you in the previous intervention, here are issues that are realized through a real decree, which are realized through a contract in which criteria for setting the price in the different value chain frames are established, in fact, can be an advance in the equitable distribution of the value of milk along the chain. But, as it is, this is useless, Counselor. You know that this, as it is, is nothing but wet paper. And you yourself, in your first intervention, said that you would have to come up with the agreements contained in this document. But look, the question that we're asking you from the Galego Nationalist Block, and I think it would be important for you to answer those hundreds of people who are on the streets with their tractors, defending their rights, is how much you're willing to wait for the Rural Councillory and the German Government to give you the conviction that this document puts. Because, indeed, in this document we are talking about the need for a sustainable price for farms to be established among all. But I, either have little understanding reading, or I haven't just seen where it's established how it's going to be done and, above all, how it's going to be guaranteed. Look, you laugh at everything you want, but it doesn't make me any fun, and I think that people who have to be sucking with their milk don't have to be funny about this either, nor does it make them any fun that on September 15th we're still discussing this problem, when it should already be solved. You just read here what you thought you had to read, and I think it's right. You have read that the parties entrust the ministry to be the guarantor, but you have not read that the parties also entrust the ministry that you have to make a decree to regulate those guarantees. And when will the ministry make that decree to regulate the guarantees? That's what the sector is asking you, Counselor. The sector, look..., do you remember the 2012 agreement of December 7, 2012, in which a number of commitments were made by the Galician Union to solve the milk sector problem, even in structural matters that you talked about? Since there was no guarantee of compliance with that agreement, it was wet paper. And what they don't want is to come back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u91	...for their homes without establishing any kind of mechanism to ensure that from now on the prices they receive for their milk are fair prices and that they are sufficient to pay for their work. And that's what we're talking about here, and everything else is literature, and everything else is andromem. What you have to answer to the glovers and the glovers is what the Government of Galicia will do and what you will ask the government of the state to do. Or won't they ask you for anything? Will they continue with that unfortunate submission that they have to the interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u93	...of the People's Party instead of defending the interests of the dairy sector? That the Ministry will be required to ensure that the German livestock, which account for 40% of the milk production in the Spanish State and more than 50% of the employment of the milk sector in the Spanish State, receive prices that allow them to live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u95	...dignified of your work, which is the only thing you're asking for. They're not asking for alms or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u97	...calling for help, they're asking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Peace, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u99	... fair prices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u101	Counsellor, the more empty sentence and more sentimental appeal to the owners and the sector, that means that you have less arguments. And within this it also brings up some important breakthrough, as when he accused the opposition of putting the French deal as an example. I just read a teletype where Mrs. Counsellor says about the Ministry's agreement: "It constitutes a positive and historical step, and rated it as similar to the one reached in France, in addition to stressing that for the first time it collects industrial and distribution duties." Absolutely unravel. That is, we were the ones who set an example for France two months ago, and you, after two months, haven't signed it yet, have a proposal for agreement and say it's similar to France and that's why it's historic. And even above all, they say, for the first time, they put on industry and distribution. Ah! now, have we found that until now they had no duty to industry and distribution, Counselor? Was it allowed to sell losses in our country? Was it allowed to use it as a claim product? Was the industry allowed to extort the livestock by telling them to sign this and to give up and that if not, they would not be able to pick up their milk? Was it allowed? Oh, no, I wasn't allowed. In the law of the food chain and in the milk package this was written that it was impossible and as it is written in the dog is impossible; although it actually happens, it is written in the dog, it is impossible. No, Counselor. Look, with you, the livestock sector can't count, you can't count, you can't count. He can't count, because there's the data. Mrs. Garcia Pacín spoke of another model. Well, of course we want another model, because you can't. I don't know if you know what an intensive or extensive model is. I don't know, because if you think that in Galicia today we have a model more dependent on the purchase of inputs when there are hectares and thousands of abandoned hectares of useful agrarian surface that are abandoned every year, which should be to produce forage, so that the cost of production is less, etc., etc., if you don't agree with that, then you will have to explain it to the sector. Because I believe that in this country, with an increasingly reduced useful agricultural area, with the most abandoned land, that we have the greatest production costs in Europe because the livestock cannot produce their own fortresses, I think that's a handicap and I think that handicap is not due to the owners. I think that handicap is because an intensive model based on thinking consumption has been promoted in a much more important way than for example in New Zealand, which is that they are competitive, not because they buy larger tractors, but because they have a territorial basis to produce. And we're gonna compete with New Zealand? We're going to compete with countries that have much more territorial base in a model based on intensive consumption of thought and based on exports of liquid milk, which is what the Counsellor said was an opportunity for the country. Sure. One opportunity for a country, Galicia, in Europe, was to have a territorial base, to have developed in recent years the transformation of milk products and to have controlled the supply on demand. That was an opportunity for this country. A competitive holding? Of course I do. What have I done to rural population? Of course I do. Or is it the same thing to have a model that we go to farms of 1,000 and more cows than to have a model based on small and medium farms? Is that the same for this country? What model do you want? A deserted rural? Eucalyptus plantations and 1,000 and more cows farms? Is that the modern one, Mrs. García Pacín? That's what you do in France, that's what you do in Bavaria, that's what you do in Denmark, that's what you do in these countries? Is that the modern one? No, that's what's done in Sierra Leone, that's what's done in Sierra Leone. So, even above they keep repeating that this is a historic agreement, so... of course we read it, of course we read the agreement. But I'm telling you, all of this should be vigilant and done. Everything. And it didn't work out. We were promised the same in 2012, 2013 and 2014. What did he do? Nothing at all, Counselor. That's why the sector can't count on you for anything, you can't trust yourself for anything. And you can come here and try to talk about someone's legitimacy to talk about this problem. Look, I don't consider myself more or less legitimate than you to come and talk about this problem, or more or less. So don't come here to say that the People's Party is the only one who can decide on the resolution of this problem, because in solving this problem the only thing that has affected and the only one that has served to move their positions was the mobilizations of the gainees, the mobilizations that you have despised and tried to criminalize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u103	...with little success, because, fortunately, they had and have a lot of social support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u104	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Pablo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u105	Thank you, President. Counselor, you've long since, from our point of view, had to resign. You're not lying. Well, if you don't lie, you don't know, that's worse; if you don't lie, you don't, you don't. Counsellor, of course, this is the most serious moment in the history of the dairy sector, not just because we can't compare the data – we know the owners well, we have to have another set of values – but because we are on a different stage and because there used to be a system that was the quota system, in which, regardless of the seasonally occurring set-ups, the competing countries were limited by production and therefore we knew that this problem had a final point. Because, beyond that they were jointly above or below, they were limited in their production. We don't have that limit today, Counselor. That's why I told him he had no shortcut. Counselor, there is no shortcut. You won't get out of this, Counselor, no matter how much you say it, no matter how much the vice president says it, no matter how much you say it to some newspaper, no matter how much you say it to some opinionary, tertulian of these grateful stomachs that, as my grandfather said, what when you are no longer owner or even owner of your hunger is that you are no longer owner of anything; therefore you take advantage of it. No matter how much I even tell TVG, this doesn't come out. You don't get out of the problem like that. You've already exhausted all those extensions and now the problem is, and this is not going to be solved. And, of course, for someone who doesn't understand any of this, the French charge an average of 6,7 cents -- I'm not going to argue with you -- 5, 4, 6, 7, in any case, much more than the Greeks, much more than the Greeks. They collect those cents and they're going to charge those cents from here at the end of the year, mostly because they have a market like Spanish to be able to send the milk cheaper, because it's a deficit. And we, the minister, who is supposed to know about this, are looking at all our solutions to the help of the French, who are very beneficial to us that we have that situation, to help us solve our problem. Is that the political solution, Counselor? Is that the strategy we have? Is that the strategy? I don't agree with that strategy. I think it's very nice that the French ministers come here... by the way, the FAO agreement was signed in 2008, by the way, it had 3 million euros. No. 2008 is signed. It's the same deal, eh! I don't know, we'll look now when they give it to us because the amount... because – I repeat – I'm sure the owners will be delighted that the president is signing such an important agreement with an entity like FAO. Madam Counsellor, you said earlier: to transpose the Food Chain Act, that in the European Council the rest of the ministers would be able to transpose the Food Chain Law into other countries. Won't it be for the results you've had here? That is, we went to Europe, which has the cheapest milk in Europe and Galicia has the cheapest milk in Spain, to tell you how to do things about the dairy sector. And you're not lying? I know now I don't smoke, I know now I don't smoke. So, Counsellor, in short, what you had to tell the gentlemen today was: how many, how many, according to their measures, yellow cattle today, how many, how many, if that was all so, how many called their industry and told them that they would be raised to milk; how many of them charged 0.22 would tell them that in October they would actually be raised to milk; how many of those who signed until December 0.20 or 0.21 or 0.22 would actually be told that a new contract would be broken and that a new one would be signed. How many, Counselor? What is it going to be half-ish once, if you have that so clear and you're going to enter in ten days and therefore we already know how much it will impact us, the yellow thugs according to you, according to that agreement, how much will you charge the half-milk? Will you have those estimates made, Counselor? Or not? So, what do we talk about? What are we talking about? How much is the sustainable price? Don't tell me, I know, it's illegal. Tell me how much it's no sustainable price, how much isn't it? If you don't want to tell me what it is, how much isn't the sustainable price, at least? That's what I'd have to tell the gentlemen to go home, not all these things that were told to them, if they wanted them to go home. I want them to go home; yes, I want them to go home. I want them to go home, I want them to go home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u106	Finish it, Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u107	But logically the gloves are no longer for the long. By the way, I'm not going to enter the French one, because, in fact, first it wasn't, then it was illegal, then there was and now it's a model and then it was similar. He said something here too, which counts on the support of industry, cooperatives and some producers. How many Galician industries aren't in the deal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u108	Go finish, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u109	How many livestock take the milk for these industries? What are they doing for them? And I'm not talking to him about gloves and first small buyers. If you like, let's put names; if you want, let's put names. So, Counselor, the sector won't believe it because it's too many times it's wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u111	...and if he doesn't cheat, and if he doesn't lie, then he doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u112	Thank you. People's Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, you see that the threshold of sensitivity in political discourse is different, it's different for groups and for others. Because certain expressions or qualifications hurt the compañeras' sensitivity when she always uses the partner political reference, because, ladies and gentlemen, when she talks to them, she loses the political confidence that she has deposited with the herdsmen and the herdsmen, neighbors and neighbors, and even the parliamentary group that welcomes me, because I will not be able to keep warming up a bench. I'm going to mow, I'm going to know what I know best, which is to produce milk, quality Greek milk. Counsellor, the socialist spokesman continues with his expressions, which are own to other forums and not to this rostrum. I think you shouldn't listen to him and I know, tell me you already have to shut up, because you had to listen throughout this period of sessions that you start, you will surely listen, because today they have asked for his resignation, but in the past period of sessions and last year they were all able to criticize, question, misintention management by calling it inaction or inannition. Inanition is that of the opposition, which, as they continue, will disappear. And even nationalism needs union, they pay attention to the owners, Mrs. Peace, pay attention to the owners, union gives strength. And we, however, will be next to the owners, the owners of the farms, supporting them when they are associated, when they already form cooperatives, when they use the models they want with the unconditional help they want..., yes, Your Honor, and they don't laugh, because our owners are professional,... yes, Your Honor, they are very professional, because they know how to seek a profit margin, they seek a sustainable price for their milk quality, they seek efficient holdings, and that's what they're fighting for, the Government of Wales and the Ministry's administration, the State administration, because they're both the only guarantee that they can get out of this situation, that they'll have viability and that they can keep fighting for what most deserves the penalty, which is the economy, the welfare of the country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Because, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen – and they have a very fragile memory – the countryside has changed, changed in recent decades. Today we see him on the street, with mobilizations that, as could not be otherwise, we support and participate, because the mobilizations have no political charities, Mr. Sánchez, the mobilizations all of them are able to be seen, to visualize a problem, so that the Administration, together and beside them, can move a pressure to other forums. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And even in Brussels. Will those in Brussels have political charities? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that here we have, as stated at the outset, to be responsible and to continue fighting, in a way that is doing the right thing, because you have done that the Galician Cooperatives Association is working, you are betting on what you propose, by the agreements that are discussed on the table, you are looking for the flocs to approach all those details that are likely, because, of course, all those issues that are agreed on, even in 2012, and different agreements transferred from agricultural organizations, from production, have been able to form regulations. Because, unfortunately, the governments of the People's Party are the only authors of regulations, of legislation. You've always left drafts, you haven't been able to articulate proposals, to carry them out. Because we are talking today about aspects such as that before the European Union Galicia does not lead or does not transfer its demands. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is leading the milk market in Spain, Galicia is able to speak loud and clear in Europe, and not as in previous times, when with political leaders in the Greek Ministry of Origin they were able to change political leaders and defend other communities with less milk production such important issues as those we are discussing today. And we are able to support and continue to fear in the search for solutions, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u114	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u115	...life goes on, because the political life of everyone, the responsibility of those who mobilize in the street, the responsibility of the industries, the responsibility of distribution, nobody's enemy of anyone, we have to avoid confrontations, we have to work together, with consensus, dialogue, seeking agreements, we'll all go out together, don't try to disunite the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u117	...don't try to find partisan performance, because weak favors are making Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u118	Thank you very much. You have the floor to close the debate, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, I think what we're doing here is representing the citizens and we haven't seen anyone doing theatre or trying to fool anyone, that's the consideration of what I'm going through. When I talk about the French agreement, I'm talking about the agreement that was adopted in the French Ministry to solve the problem of price sustainability in the dairy sector. When I speak of the agreement to the French, it was the expressions that you all used throughout the summer to tell you that it was the only solution in the sector, the agreement to the French, which says: "The Block asks the Courts to set the price of the 34 cent liter of milk, following the French model." "AGE demands a minimum price agreement for milk similar to French, or changes the law if it prevents it." "Mr. García explained that France has reached an agreement to fix the short-term milk price at 0.34 cents." [[Applause]] Well, you were telling the sector all this when you knew it was false, that it was a lie, that you can't set a minimum price, that you didn't do France or we can do it, and that you can't change a law because it's the Treaty of the European Union, simply and clearly free market, that we are in the European Union. So when I say they read things and don't fool anyone, they don't deceive anyone, we're not fooling. [[Applause]] Look, you can't afford prices. I've already told you in a thousand appearances, in a thousand interviews I have a post of manifesto. Written by the President of the Tribunal of Competition, dated January 31, 2014: "As regards the scope of your advice, this Directorate of Competition has been aware of certain actions that may be affecting raw milk price formation. We understand that... such... "there has been no competition but it can be sanctioned." The meetings I referred to, this file threat, took place on September 26, 2008, October 7, 2008 and November 11, 2008. If I leave this boarding to the sector, where will I take them? And that's what I'm saying to the sector: I'll never lie to you, I'll never say that you can afford a price, because tomorrow you can get a penalty, and it's already happened in the primary sectors, it's already happened with Pladimega, it's today the mexillary sector paying a penalty because of a price pact. [[Applause]] Look, I'm just telling you: the agreement, at the disposal of all the owners, at the disposal of the whole society, clear and transparent; Inlac, union of producers and industry are committed to including distribution in a working group to stabilize prices throughout the entire chain. Ladies and gentlemen, help the sector you understand. These are commitments, each one will be portrayed. I would like Mr. Garcia to say that industry does not want to sign this agreement, because if you have to retract, and then we will see all this citizen support, which I hope will come true in buying milk produced in Galicia, of "Galga 100 %". That's what we're looking for. Each industry, each distribution will freely sign this agreement and retract and it will be the citizens who decide where they buy and what price they buy. And then, all those statements that I don't know, the gentlemen who want? who want to be in their houses but who are on their own will, on their own will, preventing the entry and exit of trucks. Today morning there was a statement from a producer association – they will say I'm surely from the PP, because here when someone speaks in common sense I know: it's from the PP; I don't care – "From this milk producer association we want to expose and denounce the harassment and threats to which most of Galicia's livestock farms are currently being subjected. We deeply regret that less than 200 tractors, most service companies and municipalities, can prevent the collection of 9,000 Galician farms, which shows the pure and harsh imposition against the will of 90% of the sector. While in Galicia it is inexplicably blocked, if not for political reasons, the industries of our community, so as not to enter milk, enter tanks from France and Portugal, with an increase in both bulk and packaging inputs, to supply markets that we do not care about Galician milk. This is the favor some want to sell to our society." [[Murmurs.]] This isn't what Rosa Quintana says. The People's Party doesn't say. I'll be with them and defend them to the extent necessary. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u120	Thank you very much, Counselor. As has been communicated to the various spokesmen, we will then proceed to the first of the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the central government in relation to the taxation of pensions received abroad by returned immigrants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u121	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u122	You have the floor to formulate your motion to Mrs. Paz Franco, if you leave Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. I really believe today that I am going to finish cutting the veins after this full, because, after two months of hearing that the milk sector problem was too much milk on the market, now I just found out that, as they have been unable to collect for two days, we already have to bring milk from France and Portugal. Actually, the confusion is going to make me end up scratching myself in half or something, because I don't understand anything anymore. Look, we're going to talk about another subject that has also caused a lot of social mobilizations in our country. And since we're talking a lot about mobilizations today, Mrs. García Pacín has made a statement that the mobilizations of the dairy sector were not political, and I strongly say that they do have political charities, just like all the mobilizations undertaken by citizens when they want their problems to be solved from the policy area. Another thing is that we claim that they have or do not have a favour, that they are manifestly different issues. And of course the situation of returned migrants is a situation that needs to be resolved from the policy point of view, from the scope of change and from the change of the legal framework in which this problem arises. Before the end of the previous part-session, in the last plenary session, an interpellation of this group with which it was intended to clarify the position of the Government of the Union on three issues from our very relevant point of view that are being produced in relation to the taxation of the pensions of returned migrants and migrants. For the past two and a half years, almost three years, which started this harassment campaign of the Tax Agency against returned migrants, we were able to go deep into a problem and we were able to detect as from the Tax Agency, in addition to the abuse which constituted that if an unknown legislation was being applied retroactively, from which they were not informed and previously informed, but by the Tax Agency itself, even though they were committing serious abuses against returned migrants and migrants, abuses found in many judgments even of higher courts of justice, were neither rectified nor stopped despite those judgments. We are referring specifically to two very specific problems. One, which has to do with pensions paid in Germany by returned migrants before 1 January 2013, in which a new Spanish-German bilateral treaty entered into force. Pursuant to Article 19 of the previous treaty applicable to that date, it was clearly and explicitly established that these pensions were not subject to taxation in the Spanish State and therefore should not be included in the income statements of the IRPF by the persons receiving them. In spite of that, the Tax Agency did a different, contradictory interpretation, as I said earlier, in numerous judgments of higher courts of justice. But here we find ourselves with a perversion of how the People's Party uses the rule of law not to govern legality, but to use the rule of law according to its political interests. The counsellor of Fairy himself in that appeal recognized that the State had never resorted to such judgments in cassation, because, since they are not creators of judicial doctrine the judgments of the higher courts of justice, it would not be obliged to apply the content of that judgment itself. So I strongly affirm, on behalf of my group, that there is a perversion on the part of the State and the Tax Agency of the so-called rule of law to harass, in this case, tremendously vulnerable people, to force them individually to have to file claims in the litigation-administrative courts so that their rights can be compensated and stop the violation of those rights that occurred when they were forced to tax pensions received before 1 January 2013. Something similar occurs in relation to persons receiving an invalidity pension from foreign countries, that the lack of recognition through the expertise of the General Social Security Treasury to match them, to see the degree of equalization that they would have in the Spanish State, is forcing many persons with disabilities, disabilities recognized in the foreign that would be equivalent to absolute disability and great disability in the Spanish State, and that, therefore, at the expense of Article 7 of Law 35/2006 of the income tax of natural persons should be exempt from taxation, we are seeing how they systematically require them to include these pensions for invalidity in their income statement. So we're also going through this Vigilant Article of the Income Tax Law of natural persons without the Tax Agency getting any kind of reason either, and accepting also in this area judicial resolutions that are being produced in the sense that they have to be returned that money, unduly paid, to the people who have done so. We, of course, consider that, given the characteristics of returned emigrants, because they are elderly people, who lived much of their life in other states with the functioning of the administration in light years of the operation of the administration of the Spanish State, we believe that by the Tax Agency, instead of torpeating, as is being done by that agency, the exercise of rights and compensation of the rights of these persons, which should be joint instruments so that they can be exercised more easily; and of course, so that neither pensioners with pensions of Germany nor pensioners with pensions of disability, whatever the state of origin, to exercise their rights, to have individual, to have, on a case-by-case basis, the person, and still incuring in excess of those who have already made them incur the Tax Agency, resort to justice to comply with the applicable legality. Today, ladies and gentlemen, a commission from the Galaga Coordinator of Returned Migrants, of the comarcasal platforms of returned migrants, travels to Madrid to interview all groups and all political forces to expose them to their problems, to expose them what they consider unfair treatment that, through Law 35/2006, if they are granted pensions from abroad, to expose them to the different cases of discrimination that occur in relation to pensions from abroad, and to ask them to commit the different political forces to the realization, after the general elections that will take place in the coming months, a profound change of Law 35/2006 to take account of the different cases of returned migrants, and thus to solve all these problems of what we have been discussing practically for three years in this Parliament. That is why the third point of our initiative – presented, by the way, more than two months ago – urges once again that since this Greek Parliament we ask the Government of the State to make a change to that law, and to take into account in this regard a reading of the different aspects of the problem that has to do with the taxation of pensions for returned migrants. From the perspective that we are not asking, nor do returned migrants either, nor do they pay tribute, but do so on the same scale and to the same extent as the rest of the citizens, as the rest of the pensioners, and that of course it is a fair tax and that it is a balanced tax.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u124	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u125	That's why we present this motion and hope that it can be unanimously approved by this Parliament, because it responds no less than to the interests of hundreds of Greeks, thousands of Greeks and Greeks, to those who on their day we expel this country to seek a future and now, when they are back, the only thing they ask is fair treatment, non-discriminatory treatment and can live quietly from the fruit of their work, which are their pensions on our land. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Popular Group, Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. As we have indeed had an opportunity to debate this issue over the past two years – exactly two years have now been completed since we unanimously adopted a non-law proposal in this House on the problem of returning migrants receiving foreign pensions – because, as I have also done in the intervention which I had on the thread of the interpellation that the Block made to the adviser, I would like to remind you that it is always appropriate that all this has its origin in the signing of a convention within the OECD that allowed states to exchange information on payments that resulted, among others, from public pension systems to residents in other states. So we're talking about an ordinary performance of the Tax Agency – as if you've also shown with some of the performances afterwards – and not about a planned pursuit for the purpose of harming anyone. And certainly since this inspection campaign was launched by the Tax Agency and once we knew the problem, even before there were organized platforms, we were sensitive to it. From the very first moment we said that we were before a collective that was not in any case of fraud, but, at the very least, victims of bad information, sometimes also the result of confusing information provided by the Tax Agency itself. And, of course, from that moment – the year 2013 – that we have been aware of the problem we have been working and doing our best to solve the problem caused by the Tributary Agency's action on this collective. Of course, throughout this process we have been in constant contact – both through Members and the Government itself – with the collectives who wanted to do so, always with open doors. In the same way that our group will receive those who today travel to Madrid with the intention of interviewing all parliamentary groups. And I want to remember that when the problem started, this House unanimously asked for several things. In view of the circumstances – I remember what we all supported – that they received pensions from immigration, and taking into account the current circumstances of economic recession, the high levels of unemployment, the impoverishment of families, what we called for was to regularize the situation of pensioners without regard to them as tax frauds, to extend the longer payment periods than normally stipulated, to exempt those pensioners from the payment of penalties to regulate their tax situation, and to revise the framework agreements. And today we can say that this resolution – certainly also thanks to the strong support of the Government and its President, especially its President, who defended it in interviews with the Minister of Fairy – is being met – and moreover, because they do not withhold or charge interest on those affected by this problem – is being fully met with this unanimous request. Let us remember that Law 26/2014 of reform of the Income Tax Law opened up a period of regularization, which actually declared exempt from the payment of interest in default as sanctions, that there was an important process between January and June of regularization, which affected several thousand – not hundreds of thousands, as Mrs. Paz said – of Greeks, specifically in Galicia we are talking about 20,732 people who have made regularization through about 50,000 self-liquidations, and that the State, as requested, has also regulated the issue. In any case, we have tabled an amendment that maintains points 1 and 2, except for the one in the first place, because it could cause even problems to those who are not subject to a review process – so we ask for deletion – and of course we do not share, as we have often said, the issue of discriminatory treatment. Legislation and the obligation to tax are equal for all, Spanish pensioners, foreigners or even people who receive two incomes, when one of them – as you know – exceeds 1,500 euros, and therefore we understand that there is no discrimination there. And, finally, I think all the popular party has done over these years is showing that we're in politics to solve people's problems, even to apologize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u128	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u129	...for a public performance, even if it is not the competence or responsibility of this group, not even the Government that supports this group, or a bad administrative performance, as happened, for example, to the returnees of Germany who were turned to inspections when they were exempt from their income according to the international agreement. To apologize too, but, of course, to restore, within the principles of reciprocity of fiscal equity, a situation and solve a problem. We are not – and we have along this full enough examples – to magnify the problems and even make them worse by thinking about Join, we are to solve problems thinking about people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u131	Thank you, President. Mr. Puy, who was met with great progress, did not meet, because there are many eevas still, and the citizens – the Greeks and the Greeks – are amazed at an unconventional rejection of a PP government, which materialises itself in ill-treatment and harasses a particularly weak collective by the Montoro minister and his tax policies, which you applaud with enthusiasm and with no noise. The motion by the BNG currently under discussion has already been presented as an initiative in the European Parliament in May 2014, on behalf of the Glaga National Coordinator of Returned Emigrants, because it was presented in the face of the disillusionment with which the Galician Union acts in the defence of returned Welsh immigrants. We will support this initiative on all points because of law and justice, as demonstrated by the two judgments of the High Court of Justice, which fail that pensions – for which you have done so, because there is a judgment, it was not by will, but by the decision of the High Court of Justice – that it fails that pensions received by migrants from Germany are exempt from taxation in Spain and condemn the Tax Agency and the regional economic-administrative court of Galicia to return the charge unduly, with the novelty that the Treasury is also sentenced to pay the costs, so the filing of claims will have no economic consequences for the applicants. We support this initiative because it also collects the current, current, demands of the National Association of Returned Galegos as a whole. We consider these demands just in law and reason. What are they? They want the same rights for retirees who supplement their pensions with a foreign allowance that those who receive are counted only by Spain; and who are only obliged to declare the Hacienda when their income exceeds 22,000 euros a year. That is why the amendment of Law 26/2014 is required, to fix the same regime of the IRPF for income from pensions regardless of that pension comes from a state or from several countries. They also demand to urgently change the regulations so that, in the case of taxing pensions paid abroad, it is established from the 2013 tax year. And also recognize – I don't know why you say this can be complicated, I think otherwise – the disability pensions that have already been approved in the countries of origin, in order to believe the exemption in the taxation of pensions. They also request the information of the countries from which the pensions originate to verify that the benefits are already taxed in the country of origin, thereby avoiding double taxation. Alenxadre Lago, a lawyer of the affected, criticizes that the Tax Agency, after the order which obliges the collective to be returned improperly, has failed to make the payment effective. That's why, by doing so on his own initiative, he would be arousing; because, in addition, applications can only be managed via the Internet, which adds a greater difficulty to a group of older people coming from rural areas. It also regrets this lawyer that the procedure has not been done on his own initiative. I insist, Hacienda has the list and it would be much easier to do it this way. Especially now that you have a proven success telematic system. I share the honourable Member's suspicion that, in doing so, I assumed that all those affected would be charged. Given the bureaucratic and pensioners' age, many cannot apply. We support this motion which upholds the rights of returned Greeks against this government's disarm with a group of citizens to whom Galicia today owes much, accused and defamed by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u132	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u133	Good morning to all again. The truth is that this last debate can be rather indisputable, especially because it raises the voice of the People's Party to pose in this debate that the People's Party is here to help people is at least a contradiction. If you're able to determine what people help, then we're talking about ownership. Because if we talk about the majority of society, you're the only one who did during this legislation, the people's party's legislation, was to attack the majority of society: health compensation, the rise of VAT, employment reform that allows dismissal almost free, reduction of layoff compensation, reduction of unemployment benefits, reduction and greater difficulty in accessing widowhood and orphanage benefits, cut 22% of the budget in health care... I could thus continue my entire intervention. That's your concept that the People's Party is here to help people. It's clear why the People's Party is here. And you're talking about, when they realized the problem, it was a question of the Tax Agency. Of course, the Tax Agency is a free entity that acts on its own and makes decisions that have nothing to do with the decisions of the Government. But it turns out that the Tax Agency would run a government that determines which actions the Tax Agency is doing. I'm going to give a fact that I think it's quite significant: 80% of the employees of the Tributary Agency inspection are dedicated to pursuing the small fraud, the small details; the rest are pursuing the big frauds: the black cards, the envelopes in "b", the illegal financing of some parties. These issues remain for the smallest number of Tax Agency officials, precisely those that mean most of the tax fraud in this country, because tax fraud in this country is where it is. And that's why you've done regularizations of tax fraud, so you've allowed the real fraudsters to get out of their way. But, of course, all of this is political organizations, such as the People's Party, which have causes open for irregular funding or for having money in tax havens. And it seems to us that recently Mr. Montoro had said that the true fiscal amnesty had been to the return emigrants and not to those who had the amnesty of the great fortunes they had in foreign. It's a failure to respect citizenship, it's an absolute coat of hair. Because here what has been done was a persecution of those who maintain this country and who are ensuring that there is no social uprising. 80% of pensioners in this country work together to feed their children and their grandchildren, 80%. So when we're doing what we're doing, it's going directly to the pensioners' pocket, what we're doing is to deprive many quality families in their health and education care, as well as food. That's what the People's Party does, that's their concept of helping people. Eighty percent of thinkers in this country have to help their family eat, and you go and attack the weakest, who are the ones you pursue. They don't chase those big fraudsters because it turns out that later these big fraudsters are the ones who continually appear on the lists of contributions to political organizations like the People's Party. So I can't buy you that speech, because it's a fallacy, a lie. And besides, you're not honest. What you're here for is to defend the interests of a minority that massacres the majority of society in this country. And the proposal is quite simple, and we can only support it. Because it seems to me that those who wouldn't have to pay anything for being in an agreement with Germany don't have to do a process of regularizing and returning their money. It seems reasonable that it was the Administration itself. Similarly, it makes no sense that if we assume that any other country in the European Union has recognised a disability pension for any person, because it does so with strict criteria that enables that person to be applied the ability that he or she will understand that they do not pay in this country either. And the last position that is made seems absolutely reasonable to us, seems absolutely reasonable to us. We do not share the view that those people who receive more than one income should be taxed and those who receive only one income not, because it causes injustices like this, absolutely unacceptable, but other injustices that I think everyone must know. One of the issues that happens in this country when a person stays unemployed because of the policies of the People's Party is that the first month of his unemployment salary, if he has – because he has to remember that he has passed from 90 per cent protection to less than 50 per cent protection for the unemployed – he has to pay the estate. Because when you're not bound by your salary, it turns out, when you're unemployed, the next year you have to make the statement and you always get paid. So, what you do is you always do, you chase those who are down to allow wealth to continue to increase by deposing. What does it mean to increase wealth by disposing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u134	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u135	That the richest ones get richer in exchange for taking those from the bottom. And there's nothing more to see than the figures of inequality. What is the country of Europe where the most billionaire fortunes have grown? This country, this state, and, on the contrary, we continue with one out of four in poverty. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u136	Socialist Group. You have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u137	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, rather late now, all of you. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will support this motion that Mrs Peace presents, among other things because we have agreed in many parliamentary debates already on the outstanding claims. Even though we also understand that this regularization that has been carried out by the Government of Spain has a lot of scourges, it has a lot of eyves, and it's very critical, as we've already stated here on many occasions, because we didn't want to accept an official review. The deadline, of course, from what we are being transferred to the returned immigrant pensioners' organizations, has been insufficient, there are still people who haven't done regularization. And then, those who weren't supposed to regularize, among them these pensioners with the pensions of Germany; even though they were known, because all and everyone we're here heard on many occasions these debates, and this is not the first time that we've talked about in this House about the pensions of Germany, the judgments of the High Court of Justice of Galicia, and how the State Agency of Tax Administration made deaf hearings to the claims that were made from here to explain to them that he was doing something wrong, that he was trying to collect taxes on people who didn't have to make that statement. So, what the Galician Nationalist Block proposes is to demand that all those statements that have already been made should be returned to them because they were not entitled to the Tax Agency to claim them, of course, yes, I think no one will be against this issue. The second point is another one of the claims that I believe we all assume in part here, although it is true that the People's Party, with its vote, has not yet explicitly supported them, which is that the invalids that are recognised in other countries have the same treatment in Spain. Because if you had that same recognition, in many cases people would be exempt from taxation, as they are here in our country. And, of course, they don't automatically recognize themselves, that they get here, that they have to do a periploy by administration offices, by doctors, even asking private people to translate the documents to them because in the public administration itself they often don't get that service, because what's causing problems, inconveniences to these people, but also an absolutely unfair situation, because in many cases these people, if they respect the recognition of the incapacity they had in the countries they emigrated, because they would be exempt from taxation in Spain. Tax legislation, once again – as the Socialist Parliamentary Group has on occasion – needs to be amended, it must be guaranteed to return emigrant pensioners who have exactly the same tax treatment as pensioners who have not been emigrants, who equate the same tax treatment. Because we have already shown on many occasions, despite the fact that the People's Party in this case has denied it, that, with the same legislation, the treatment that the foreigners' pensions have with regard to state pensions and with respect to the legislation of the two payers, causes solutions, results, different, in some way, in the declaration of income. So what we have to do is change tax legislation to find a way to help this situation. Mr. Puy was here to make the kind speech that the People's Party has always been in line with the claims of returned emigrant pensioners and that he has always tried to help them, but it is no less true that all that happened were political decisions, Mr. Puy, it was not an administrative agreement. There was a government who decided that he was going to do a massive, planned inspection of returned emigrant pensioners, and he did it. The same government that decided to forgive people who cheated and made them tax amnesties, the same government, the same. And now we've heard some state-level executives, like Mr. Montoro recently, say what had been done with returned emigrant pensioners was an amnesty of taxation. So now Mr. Montoro calls it tax amnesty to make them pay to returned immigrant pensioners, we don't know how he calls what he did with all those in Gürtell and others, those who were forgiven millionaire debts and who had to pay just one little nothing for everything they had to pay if they had applied the legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u138	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u139	...as it was. I don't know what they call him. But, well, these are the things the People's Party has, which always tries to look nice when citizens are right. In fact, citizens are right, and the best way to solve problems and give reason to citizens is to meet their demands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u141	They vote in favour of this initiative and vote in favour of all the initiatives presented here by the opposition groups on this issue; by the way, with those ideas that you know are right because they are the approaches that make us the platforms of returned immigrant pensioners. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u142	Parliamentary group responsible for the motion. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor. Give a voice to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u143	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups, mainly those who without any doubt will vote in favour of this initiative presented by the Nationalist Block of Wales in their integrity. With regard to the amendment made by the Popular Parliamentary Group, I would like to say to Mr Puy that, of course, we appreciate the amendment, in that it represents a significant step forward in the position of his group on two fundamental issues to which we referred all the people we have intervened at this point, which are: the issue of pensions from Germany before January 2013 and the question of those pensions for invalidity which they are taxing without having to do so, as set out in article 7 of the law. We regret, however, that the People's Parliamentary Group remains unaware of the need for a change of legislation to adapt it to these circumstances and cases in relation to the taxation of pensions from emigration. As far as the amendment made by the People's Group is concerned, if the rest of the groups, essentially the amender, would be well prepared to accept their amendment in relation to points 1 and 2, and to vote separately on these two points in point 3, if we accept the People's Group and the rest of the groups, because we want that, in any case, that means that on the side of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales in no case we refuse to keep alive the claim that the law should be amended, and we hope that, as on this subject we have been giving too many children, we have gradually changed the position of the Government, the Tax Administration and the People's Party, to continue to take those few steps so that one day we can finally see this problem solved. To finish, Madam President, let me say that in the event that this initiative, as regards points 1 and 2, is approved unanimously, we hope that the Popular Parliamentary Group too – of course, the Group of the BNG will do so – will be pending and pressing the Galician Council so that for the verification of the contents of these two points something, or much more, will be done that simply refers them to the Tax Agency. All of us will have to be very careful and exerting the necessary pressure to ensure that once and for all the fulfilment of these two issues, which we all, in this debate, consider to be fair. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. We'll stop the session until this afternoon at 16 o'clock, which will start with the presence of the Health Counsellor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u145	We'll restart the session with the health advisor's appearance. The two requests are collected. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor of Health, on his own request, to explain, once this is completed, the transfer process and launch of the new Public Hospital of Vigo Álvaro Cunqueiro The opinion of Mrs. Health Counsellor, at the request of G.P. of the G.P. Galga de Left Alternative. of the Nationalist Block Galego and G.P. Mixto, to account for the numerous deficiencies detected at the structural, hygienic and organizational level of the new Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo, as well as the privatization of its services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u146	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the health adviser, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u147	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm here today to account for the transfer and launch process of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. My initial intention was to come and explain it once this process is finished, but in the face of the confusion generated, and as there is nothing, absolutely nothing, to hide, I come today to inform this House. As a first resort, there's a fact that I don't obviously want to shed any light on. The new hospital is part of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, it is public, it is owned by Sergas, and therefore it is owned by all the vigues, the inhabitants of its metropolitan health area and all the Welsh and Welsh. Vigo now owns a hospital that many Spanish cities want to have. The public health professionals have at their disposal the infrastructure with greater capacity and potential, within their genre, as well as the progress and possibility of the future that has taken place in Spain in recent years, and that has been faced with the difficulty added to it in full economic recession. I live with an infrastructure that will provide healthcare – and in fact it is already lending – to the more than 600,000 neighbors of that city and its area of influence. Everyone had been very clear for many years that Vigo's area needed a new hospital and that one couldn't wait any longer; a need not to be answered even in the years of greater economic kindness. Let's make some history. The hospital project is framed within the Sectoral Project of Supreme Incidence, the PSIS, approved in February 2009. In parallel with this PSIS, the environmental impact declaration was submitted. In addition to these two documents, when we arrived in 2009 at the Galego Health Service, there was a basic project for the new Vigo hospital, approved in October 2008, but that it had not been submitted to public information. We had to do it on January 28, 2010. As a matter of fact, there was a framework agreement between the Galician Council, through the health councils, the Galego Health Service and the Territorial Policy Council, Public Works and Transport, and the Vigo Council for the construction of the new hospital and the staffing of its infrastructures signed in March 2006, which defined the works that each had to do. In this agreement, it was specified that the Health Council assumed the drafting of the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence and expropriated land, setting out in its sixth clause that the management of all services in the complex will correspond to Sergas, for which it will use legally established management formulas. CPTOPT assumed access and the Vigo Council assumed the necessary supplies, the necessary services for the construction and operation of the hospital, in particular water supply and sanitation, as well as the provision and supply of city gas services, electricity, optical fibre channeling and any other necessary or essential for the construction and operation of the hospital. In addition, in its eighth clause, it states that the Vigo Council will give up free of charge, free of charge and taxes, those lands within the scope of the sectoral project that it has at the time of signing this convention, as well as those others which the Council opts to acquire for any title. Because of this agreement, we had to deal with the process of expropriation of land, which we ended on October 5, 2010, with an amount of 7.5 million euros. It's the first time that a council doesn't provide counseling the ground for the construction of a health infrastructure, whether it's a health center or a hospital. It is one more example of the absolute lack of support that we have had from the very first moment on by that corporation, which for all these years has refused to take on its commitments, neither those collected in the agreement nor any other. Also in the Galego Health Service there was a study of economic-financial viability to build the hospital by the PFI procedure, a study that curiously the bipartite commissioned the company PricewaterhouseCoopers and which so much demonized some later. It is true that there was also another feasibility study to be carried out by the SPI, but without a single euro for that. In these diatrics, time has passed, and they haven't been able to build it either by one system or by another, and in moments of economic kindness. There were also several functional plans, developed between 2006 and 2009 and carried out by Elola Consultants and Intersalus. It must be remembered that, in the face of the economic crisis, much of the projects that were underway throughout Spain had to be reformulated, and many times even had to be abandoned. It wasn't Vigo's case. From the Government of Galician Union, we have considered from the very first moment that this was one of our priorities, the need to provide Vigo with a new hospital that would enable us to overcome the existing deficiencies, and we started with the process. The first analysis document is already in September 2009. Several were the reasons that led us to choose the model of public-private collaboration, the so-called PFI. The most relevant were: having a new hospital in the worst known economic scenario, with the conviction that with the traditional formula it would not be possible; that is, the decision was to make or not to do the hospital. And the second reason is to be able to do it as soon as possible, and of course, in much less time than by the usual public procurement system, than we had a very recent experience in Lugo, where it took more than ten years. Thus, in January 2010 we put the public exhibition on the study of economic and financial viability of the award of public works for the drafting of the project, financing, construction and exploitation of certain non-clinical services complementary to the new hospital in Vigo. And in May 2010 we published in the DOG, the PDO and the BOE the bidding of the concession of public works and the drafting of the technical project, financing, construction and exploitation of certain non-clinical services of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo. I would like to point out that in these documents it is collected – as it cannot be otherwise – the field of recruitment, which are the non-clinical services object of management; I remind you that they are the restoration, laundry and lingerie, the cleaning, the maintenance of electromedicine, the general maintenance, the destabilization, destabilization and disinfection, the internal and external transport and the auxiliary management, security, the supply and energy management, the water supply and treatment plant, the maintenance of printing and reprographic equipment and the conservation of avenues and gardens. And I insist again that, of these twelve services, nine were already being lent by external companies. These documents also collect the maximum annual fee payable to the dealership. A maximum annual fee of EUR 72.87 million was set in the tender, of which EUR 46.44 was to be built and 26.43 was to provide non-sanitary services, with EUR 1.20 million in deduction of costs for commercial holdings; i.e. the total to be paid was set at EUR 71.66 million. In the adjudication, the AMC reduced to €60.4 million: €36.2 of the work and 24.2 of the non-health services, with a deduction for commercial holdings of €3.9 million; i.e. to pay €56.5 million. This, of course, without IVE, because this one was changing. On these commercial holdings is included the parking lot, clearly showing that the tariff had to be the average rate of the city of Vigo. All these documents, the study of economic-financial viability and recruitment fees, were on public display in the profile of Sergas' contractor and were published as established by the legislation in force. So, I insist, this is known to everyone who's wanted to see you since 2010. The contract with the adjudicatory UTE was signed on 21 February 2011. The process involved a lot of effort, work and illusion from many people, from many professionals, who had a common goal: to equip Vigo and southern Galicia with a pointing hospital and with the best supplies. It was carried out with all guarantees and maximum transparency, complying – as could not be otherwise – with the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. It has all the favourable preceptive reports: from staff technicians, legal counsel, intervention, and for greater abundance in these types of contracts, also with the favourable report of the General Intervention of the State, which was issued in May 2010. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in May 2010, when Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero still ruled, obviously. I don't think you can take any further advantage of the legal security of this contract. But let's continue with the project. The re-enactment was signed on 24 June 2011, and the work began effectively on 24 September 2011. Once the contract has been signed, the TEU negotiates the financing, and in the worst financial scenario that this country has experienced, it was able to close it on August 1, 2013. The date of completion of the work was last April 24, 2015. I would like to point out that it has been built, despite the difficulties of the moment and the absolute lack of collaboration, especially of the Vigo Council, in a record time: less than four years from the beginning of the works to the delivery of them to Sergas, half the time limit than other similar and recent works. The last comparable hospital put into operation was the Central University Hospital of Asturias, and it took him to build almost twelve years, three times more than the Cunqueiro Alvaro. On April 25, the deadline for the start-up of the infrastructure of this new public hospital and the transfer began. Thus, 70 days later, June 29th was the first day of hospital care work. The first 65 patients received attention in the services of Anesthesia, Nephrology and in the unit of Hemodialysis, while activity began at the hospital of the Pathological Anatomy Service. This date, historic for the health of Vigo and for the Galician, has been developed with total normality. The transfer process of a hospital is a huge technical and logistical complexity. We're talking about the progressive transfer of hundreds of patients who need hospitalization and also of the hundreds of professionals responsible for their attention, in addition to the necessary equipment and furniture. That's why it was considered that summer months were the most suitable to carry it out, since the number of patients entered and the activity of the center is smaller than in other times of the year. In Vigo this complexity is increased by the very characteristics of assistance. It's not about changing from building to building, but it's necessary to reorganize and unify in a single centre the activity being carried out in two, three, and even in some cases four centers. There's a need to homogenize work procedures that are often very sharp and integrate teams of people who have never worked together. This undoubtedly increases uncertainty and resistance. But we also made it clear – and so the responsible ones conveyed it to us – that there was no other way to do it. This reorganization is part of the differentiation of buildings according to the pathology to be met, instead of the city hall of origin. It is established that at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, the Emergency Service will be unified, so far divided, with two entry doors; the Intensive Medicine units, also divided; the most complex surgical activity and that pathology in general more complicated or with greater technical requirements. At the Hospital do Mexeiro, the short-term and outpatient surgery and medical hospitalization of chronic, psychopathological and advanced-age patients, as well as those specialties with a higher outpatient burden, are concentrated. And also radiotherapy, because of the technical difficulties of moving the equipment. Hospital Nicolás Peña will perform psychiatric hospitalization, rehabilitation and residential care. This same principle responds to laboratory planning, designing a single laboratory in the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, with two perfectly differentiated parts: a quick response for all those tests that have to have results in less than six hours, and the most complex, that require individualized equipment and that will be located in the Cunqueiro Álvaro. And a great Core lab, which responds to all the scheduled analytical tests – we remember that 80% come from primary care – that will be located in the Mexoneiro and that, as has just been demonstrated in many other centres in Galicia and outside Galicia, it improves the traceability and efficiency of laboratories. Therefore, the entire process of transfer and reorganization of care has been programmed with precision, rigor and in a very detailed way. And this proclamation was presented and agreed with the professionals during the months of May and June and was presented to the press by the manager on June 5, 2015. But it is quite true that from the very first moment we had clear that the calendar was subject to the fulfilment of four guiding principles: safety for patients and professionals, increasing complexity, minimization of transfer periods and the involvement of professionals. Of them, obviously, the main thing was to guarantee the safety conditions of patients and professionals. From June 29 to August 28 – two months – the process was carried out strictly within the programme, so the activity of external consultations, diagnostic tests, day-to-day hospitals and all conventional hospitalizations are already in the new hospital and in operation. That is, it took about 75% of the transfer without larger incidences and according to the established calendar. On 28 August, the University Hospital Complex of Vigo proposed to reorder the last phase of the planned transfer for the next week, according to the recommendations of the preventive medicine service and according to the professionals of the centre, in order to ensure the guiding principle of this whole process: the safety of patients. This very morning, contacts were made with the various involved in this measure: the preventive medicine service, the services and units that were to be transferred to the next week and the services and units that were already performing their activity in the Cunqueiro Álvaro, and so on, at the last hour of the morning, proceed to inform the commission of the centre. Therefore, we understand that the criticism of lack of information or transparency is not at all groundless. Transparency, ladies and gentlemen. The measure was taken by the agency after environmental controls carried out by the preventive medicine service, not counting 100% of the negative results of critical units, and can be sure that only when this information is fully available will a new transfer date be established. The hospital's most critical units remain pending: the surgical block, the intensive care and resuscitation and emergency units. The emergencies because they are subject to the previous ones, and the surgical block and critical units because they require security controls that are necessary to carry out very adjusted times, and if they are not totally negative, they invalidate their put into operation. In fact, these controls in the units already operating are done periodically, and, if they are the positive results, they are closed. I repeat, therefore, that the priority is the safety of the patient and that it is considered appropriate to carry out the transfer of these units together, according to the schedule presented, and not individually, the transfer program was postponed until all controls considered necessary. This, and no other, is the decision that must be taken by a responsible administration and that must be expected from the Galician Health Service. This advisor, therefore, feels secure from the decisions made, ensures the safety of patients who will be transferred to the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital and also those who are already in the hospital and fully disengage those who intend to desist from the Greek public health. So I want to make it very clear that, once all controls are correct, with the visa and pleasure of professionals – especially in this case of preventive medicine – the process is resumed. And that's why, according to the manager of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, together with the head of preventive medicine service, next Monday, September 21, the transfer will resume following the schedule. In the last few days, we've seen the relocation of the different units of the Mexoeiro, even yesterday's dermatology has moved. It is imperative to point out, for the tranquility of citizenship, that, as well as underlining the manager of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo and the heads of services repeatedly these days, the needs of care, technology and human resources of patients hospitalized in the Cunqueiro Alvaro are fully guaranteed with the resources that are now available. Another of the issues that has been raised these days was staffing. As far as this is concerned, I have to say that the bidding of medical equipment and clinical furniture has been carried out in different phases grouped into batches according to the technology in question. All this equipment plan is estimated to achieve an investment of more than 45 million euros, and competitions have been held in recent months, always complying with current regulations. I have to say, moreover, that all the appeals brought against these tenders have been failed in favour of Sergas, except for the laboratory, where we have decided to accept the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources resolution and bring it out again. In addition, the equipment plan is completed, as it cannot be otherwise, with the equipment transfer plan of the other centres; all that is in operation conditions and that has been agreed with the professionals, as well as the technological update of them. Finally, with this new public health centre, as we always insist, we respond with vision of the future to a historical need and justice to Galicia's most populated health area. I think the figures are very powerful about the magnitude and capacity of this backend. The total built surface is 280,000 square meters, three times more than the General Hospital. It has as main equipment: 22 surgeries for incoming surgery, 2 integrated and 2 emergency surgeries; 12 delivery units; 2 cesarean surgeries and 5 special rooms; 62 image diagnostic rooms; 150 multichannel sites and a large area of consultations; an area of emergencies that duplicates the current ones; the area of teaching and research and other areas such as parking, kindergarten, heliport, installation center, library, etc.; and a maximum hospitalization capacity of 1,465 beds. We have here, at last, a hospital of the future, with a flexible architectural design, with space reserves to accommodate the growth of services and with the ability to adapt to future needs, but we are also living an unprecedented stage in the health system, in which some seem not to stand in bars to desist the new hospital, and with it the public health system, and with it all the professionals who are working day by day to make the move in the best possible conditions and with the best guarantees of quality and safety. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They seem unable to see the potential of having this infrastructure available for health care in Vigo over the next few years, and working to achieve it. At this point, I must state that in the process of transfer they do not seem responsible for actions such as organizing demonstrations, asking for research committees to be set up, asking Europe for facts known four years ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u148	Mrs. Hide, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u149	...request even by judicial means to paralyze the transfer or require the evacuation of patients. For all of this, there was enough time before the transfer started, and there will be later, so these kinds of performances during such a delicate process, such as the transfer of a hospital, merely portray the protagonist and the responsibility with which they choose to perform these performances. [[Applause]] I want to take this opportunity to express my gratitude, to say that I am very proud of the work done by the entire management team throughout this process and to remind you that, with the change of manager in April this year, since its incorporation, it faces the challenge of moving and putting in place with all its energy. The rest of the team has been working for many months to plan both the transfer and the reorganization of all of Vigo's health care. My appreciation also for the service heads' forum of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, which only understands to collaborate with the leader in this great project, despite all the pressures and criticisms arising from different areas, because they know well that the professional future of all and each of their services is at stake and therefore the quality of care that will be given to Vigo's citizenship and its area in the coming years. And of course, I want to show my deep appreciation and appreciation to most hospital professionals for their efforts during these days so that the process can be carried out in the best way possible, in particular those who were part of the working groups, who planned and implemented the transfer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I extend this thanks to the work of the local police and in general to the people, companies and administrations that are working with us all. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, I want to transfer to the patients affected by the transfer and to their families my apologies for the mistakes that may have happened and my sincere desire that the logical disturbances resulting from the displacement result as little as possible. I ask for understanding for that, and I assure you that, along with our professionals, we are doing our best, and sometimes also the impossible, to minimize the possible mistakes that we may make or that may arise. In any case, the vicars must not be deceived. In 2015, Vigo's metropolitan area will have a public hospital of the most modern in Europe, located in the technological vanguard, where healthcare professionals from the Galician Health Service will assist and offer the best care conditions for patients and professionals. The vigues and the gales cost us a lot to do this hospital in full economic recession, and neither they, who are the owners of the complex...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u150	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u151	...no professionals deserve more than support, recognition and the prestige of the Greek public health. We have to do this among all with rigour, institutional loyalty and, above all, with responsibility, for the sake of citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u152	Round of parliamentary groups. By the Joint Group you have the word... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez. Quiet, please! Mr. Tellado! Mrs. Martínez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u153	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counselor, you must have the courage to come here with that car! All propaganda! You're talking about the confusion that's generated. It's because of the chaos you've raised. He's been in real chaos in Vigo's health, and he's here pretending he doesn't know what. Non-clinical privatized services. The non-clinical was privatized, because the law doesn't allow you to privatize the clinic. Otherwise, they would be privatized to medical services, Counselor. Unfortunately, they haven't changed that law at the moment, and public health must have health professionals who depend directly on public health. He's talking about a parking lot that has Vigo's average fare. Well, at an essential service we put an average fare parking, because the vigues have left us the money, because in Pontevedra province there are jobs for all and besides quality and none is unemployed; no one has any economic problems in Vigo or Pontevedra province. He says it was a historic date to the inauguration. The historic date was September 3, the demonstration. That manifestation that you criticize, because you don't like – like the People's Party – that citizenship speaks and says what's really happening and they cover up their propaganda with realities. It's a lie that emergencies have one door, mind again. Emergency has two doors: the Chuvi and the Povervisa because the Povervisa stays. So we continued with privatized health care in Povervisa and now privatized the public health we had; we privatized it again in a new private hospital. You're talking about your consensus with the staff. I'd like to know who. With all those who were protesting today in the morning there, no. I don't know what staff you're consensual about. That everything is solved, lists, queries and tests and that it's working normally. I had a consultation on the 11th. People leave without consultation. The list of appointments for Vigo, for specialties, is closed, Counselor. People go and tell him they call, they call in a week, a month, see when we're ready! So you're lying. But the most serious thing is that you lie about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, the viguess and the viguess. So I understand that there is no manifestation or concentration here that defies the Greek health, you alone are in charge of desisting the Greek health; you and Mr. Feijóo are in charge of privatizing the Greek health. According to the former manager of the health area, in statements he made to the press, he said that Vigo's health area is at the same crossroads as a quarter of a century ago, when the Mexoneiro was inaugurated; and I agree. The Wizard would also be the hospital that was going to have Vigo, of the last generation, that would solve all Vigo's problems. And how did the Wizard end? It began its construction in 86 by five million pesetas. It was going to be the third public hospital, and it was opened, of course, as now, in a hurry, 17 days before the election. Now too, in an election year, we have to open the hospital anyway. But it closed a week later for reports of lack of means. The hospital didn't develop according to what was planned. I was going to have an on-the-spot vanguard center that doesn't exist. He didn't have heart surgery until Medtec arrived. He was handed over to Medtec, not to public health. Maxilofacial, who was also going to stay in the Mexoeiro, agreed with Povervisa. Neither did the Nursing School nor the Physiotherapy School. The Mexier hospital was the evidence field for the privatisation process that we're talking about now. A new hospital, which opens with the privatization of all non-assisted services, just like it happened at the Mexoeiro Hospital. In 1991 there was a transfer to Sergas, and there were two important events: the Povervisa concert and the introduction of Medtec to the hospital, which prevented the Mexeiro from being the promised public hospital in Vigo. He had his social response, as opposed to privatization, and less of the services in the Mexoneiro hospital. Until, unfortunately, the death of patients by Aspergillus, which gave evidence of the parasitic nature that Medtec was making of the Mexoeiro hospital, the economic criteria prevailing in public-private management and the lack of attention to the quality of the services provided. Now, Vigo's health area is once again suffering a new aggression and discrimination with the replacement of public hospitals: General, Cíes, Rebulón, and the centres of specialties of Coia and La Doubled by a private hospital, in addition to maintaining the concert with Povervisa – another private hospital – and the diversion of patients from Pontevedra and O Salnés to Compostela. So everything around this hospital is scandalous: bidding, concession, financing, construction deadlines, inauguration. Everything was a mess! A hospital without a central laboratory, which is in the Mexoeiro, several kilometers away, endangering the quality and safety of diagnostic tests. Reduction of services, equipment, hospital beds, surgery, emergency room, radiology. In relation to the initial project, half of the services that were to be carried out, as happened to the Mexeiro. Multiple deficiencies in the facilities; waste water filtrations, presence of rats and waterfalls; chaotic transfer of staff and patients; microbiological contamination in the surgeons; payment parking lot, expensive and excessive. If you're in and want a bonus for television, radio or the Internet, you have to pay a bill: 13 euros a day; and if you take a three-day bonus, 18 euros. Counsellor, do you realize what it is for a patient – or his family – who has entered the hospital to assume the payment of that parking and in addition to the services what television or the Internet can be? You didn't assemble a hospital, you set up a business for certain companies! That's what you piled up. This management model chosen by the Board assumes the transfer of the management of non-sanitary services to the construction company, with an annual canon, for twenty years, of 68 million. In total, more than 1,500 million euros. After a delay of more than three years, and service cuts, we have to pay a surcharge between 4 and 6 times higher than the real price. His inauguration is full of shortcomings: lack of brother-in-laws, electrocardiographs, stop cars, clothes cars, nitroglycerin, pumps to supply it; resonances are made in a truck... a wonderful picture for the health of Galicia's most populated health area. The consequences were evident from the paralysis of patients due to risk of contamination. The follow-up technical workshop was commissioned to Galaria. That's transparency, yours is the transparency that goes through this whole process. It has been used to outsource this activity to a private company. It was commissioned by over 4 million to the company Clinical Efficiency Management, whose holder played responsibility in the Health Administration and has direct responsibility for the cuts, dismantling and privatization of Madrid's health care, which we know was a success with the popular outcry. The Galician Health Defense Association has denounced the adjudication to the European Union – as you have said – for the use of the public-private formula. And that would deserve you to explain why you chose this formula rather than the formula you had to choose, which would be the model of public works concession. I'd like you to explain it in the second intervention. As well as the cuts entered into the contract: beds, surgeries, emergencies, research, teaching, laboratory, furniture, washbasins, consultations. What happened? The risk of financing was covered by Sergas with credit from the European Investment Bank, the Office of Official Credit, and I believe that they do not provide loans to private companies. The Chuvi therefore ceased to be a reference to the inhabitants of Salnès in the techniques that do not exist in those hospitals, and that was entrusted to Sergas Health Care Director Felix Ruibal, and in award you appointed him the new manager of the Vigo health area. For all the scandal surrounding the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, because so demanded on the third day the citizenry in a historic demonstration in Vigo, present his resignation and return to the private company, which is the one that centers his true interests. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Nationalist Block Galego has the word Mrs. Montserrat Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u155	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Mosquera, the Galician Nationalist Block did not expect much of its appearance here today in this Parliament, we only expected to have a little dignity and come here to announce that it was resigning. But everything seems to indicate that it won't. We were hoping you'd resign after everything that's happening with Vigo's private hospital. Last September 3rd in Vigo there was a historic mobilization, from which there is a wide-ranging graphic report, and it seems you haven't seen it. Then, at the end, I'm going to make it easier for you to do that graphic documentation because it seems you haven't seen thousands of people in the southern health area of Pontevedra province, in the Vigo health area, expressing themselves in the streets asking for their correction, asking for your resignation, and asking for free public health and a hospital at the service of the majority of the population, not at the service of their friendly companies, Mrs Mosquera. Last day 3 there was a real cry from the neighbors and neighbors of the southern health area of Pontevedra province, and despite his campaign of propaganda about the magnificent hospital that was going to start, they didn't just believe it. You carry on campaign, by land, by sea and air, speaking of the goodness of Vigo's new hospital, and it turns out that thousands no longer believe them. I've already told you here this morning, the Members and Members of the People's Party and the health spokesman, who can fool a few at all times, but at all times they can't fool them. They don't fool the neighbors and neighbors of the southern health area of the province of Pontevedra and the Greeks and the Greeks at the moment, because they are already very clear that the only goal you have in front of the Health Council is to convert an essential public service, such as public health, into business for their friends, and also in business for businesses outside of Galicia, to companies that cash in Galicia and take it directly to Madrid. Unfortunately... yes, Mrs. Mosquera will also leave you the receipts from where the tax domicile has the companies you gave the services of the Vigo hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's in Madrid. I don't know if you can deny that too. Well, unfortunately, you rather than hear that cry come here today and, far from assuming responsibility, the People's Party turns out to run away. The president of the board dares call them irresponsible to the thousands of people who are protesting and claiming public health. The manager of the health area ridiculously minimizes the disaster of the transfer, the causes of the paralysis of the transfer, as if it were a sewer of the most normal in the world! The health spokesperson dares here, today morning, saying that he wouldn't dare disqualify himself, denounce himself here, at this headquarters... sorry, that he wouldn't dare say at parliamentary headquarters that it's a problem and there's danger at Vigo's private hospital. It's just that we haven't come to say it here today, that the vast majority of professionals are saying it, and they're saying it to the vast majority of people who have already had the misfortune of being treated in a hospital that doesn't meet the conditions to be cared for. And you come here, Mrs Mosquera, to accuse people who suffer the consequences of their decisions and those of the People's Party, of turning public health into business for businesses, of disparaging public health. Don't stop at bars to desecrate the hospital and the public health, which are irresponsible. Look, you come here too to thank the professionals for the good work done. Today morning you missed a golden opportunity, Counselor. You lost the chance of gold coming here, crossing the doors of this Parliament, and going there, where the representatives of the workers and workers – who have legal representatives; because you say it's all under the law, you have legal representatives, whom you and your team steal the information, do all they're doing back turned to those legal representatives, and apologize to them; staff who have been there in the morning asking for your resignation, Mrs Mosquera. They don't want to listen to your apology, they want you to resign from the mismanagement you're doing in front of the health of our country. You said here there's nothing to hide, all under tachographs! Then tell the Members and Members of the People's Party that today morning they refused to open an investigation commission because we don't know what they have to hide. If there's nothing to hide, why don't you want it to be investigated, why don't you want the whole process to be fully known, how did you get it, how did you build it, how did you get it, how did you give it to a company that is also a friend, the control of security and the development of the hospital, how did you get it? If there's nothing to hide, why do they refuse to set up an investigation commission? I have to tell you clearly, Mrs. Mosquera, you're an waterproof advisor to reality, you live in a virtual reality. You come here, put the CD on automatic and rainy. You came here today to make the history of the development of Vigo's new hospital – its history, of course – and you forgot very relevant details, like those I just told you: what companies?, how?, what business? Why did you cut off the hospital? Why did the planned beds fall by more than 500? Why rather than being a hospital where patients' health was the priority, do you prioritize that they cash the company? All that's forgotten to say today. Because you come here with what reality doesn't ruin your headline. You come here with that... imbecile, that reality doesn't spoil my title. And you had a headline, and the headline was, "the star project – announced by land, sea and air for you and the president of the board – opened without any problems." But that was its headline, reality has nothing to do with its headline, Counselor; the reality is that there is a generalized social alarm, the reality is that there is chaos at all levels – as much as access, services, security, the quality of care, the quality of construction – and that the population is indeed alarmed and scared. And look – I'm not telling you – since you are inconceivable, impermeable to everything that happens and wants to deny reality, you want to deny the tense reality that comes out again and again, I'm going to make reference to cash roles, okay?, to complaints that these professionals you want to thank and that they do so so so well, effectively – and that again here, since the Nationalist Block of Wales, we say that if the public health of this country still stands up it is thanks to the efforts of the professionals, despite their efforts to end this Greek public health, despite their efforts –... Well, look, these professionals have reported on land, sea and air what's going on. And look, a notarial record, a notarial record, of haematology professionals who present before the notary and who say that the staff of the transplant unit, eh?, the CHUVI found out this morning – on Friday, August 28 – "that the transfer to liquid nitrogen containers was taking place in the probes containing the cells for subsequent transplants inside them. Having no notice or prior communication that this transfer would take place, which was not communicated to the hematologist responsible for the unit. That in this transfer it was possible to verify that the protocol agreed with the Directorate was not complied with." I can still tell you that all of this put the samples at risk, that the liquid nitrogen deposits are not 24 hours a day, etc., etc. Then I'll bring you in, Mrs. Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u156	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u157	...a complaint from radiologists and nursing technicians of the radiology service that, also in writing – dares to put it in writing because the words carry the wind!–, after telling you by active and passive, that they deny that nothing was going to happen, put it in writing; a writing from the professionals of the radio service where they say they don't even have 80% of the materials that would be needed to perform a service in condition, and they ask that this be communicated to the rest of the professionals. Look, Mrs. Mosquera, a writing from the nursing staff of the cardiology unit, heart surgery and intermediate care of cardiology where they say that the transfer of patients from this unit to the new hospital in Vigo was chaos, that they had no material to treat them, that they had no minimum medication. In general, the picture of a hospital facility that was not, in any way, prepared to receive our patients. It was ridiculous the number of containers for the trash, in a place where the cleaning work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u159	...was not carried out properly. "The instructions for the use of the new apparatus we had tracked them in it, we had not done any sort of practice about it." There are more, many more complaints, Mrs. Mosquera, that at the end of the day I will make it easier for you, because it seems you want to deny reality, you want to deny that there is a real problem in Vigo's new hospital, that professionals are alarmed, that they can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u161	...to guarantee health care in condition, that the patients are scandalized to get there and have to pay money that they don't have for parking, for unabated rates in coffee shop...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u163	...to be able to sleep in armchairs, etc., etc., etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u165	Well, you deny it, Mrs Mosquera, you deny it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u166	Mrs. Prado, your time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u167	Obviously, all the problems that arise, Mrs. Mosquera...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u168	Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u169	...they came to prove, they came to prove...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Time's up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado. Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, I haven't given you the floor yet. Do the favor. Mrs Solla has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u171	Thank you, President. A few hours ago we lived a sad spectacle in this House: by debating the creation of a commission of inquiry about the adjudication, the construction and management of the new Vigo hospital, this disastrous hospital, the ultimate responsible for our health care, you, Mrs Mosquera, were not present, had no dignity of being listening to the debate, neither you nor the president had the dignity of being in this House. You certainly believe that it's above everything. I don't know who you think you are, but I'm going to remind you that you, as an advisor, are the most responsible, responsible! of our health, of the legal breaches of Vigo's new hospital, responsible if there is contamination in the hospital, responsible if one day the hospital falls on patients and workers. And yet it is allowed to be absent – as you were allowed, one day, to say that you were a public and private advisor. You, Mrs. Mosquera, are practically a political corpse, you are politically dead, and that's because your management is dead, because you no longer have anything to contribute; because, in addition, the smell of your management is no longer hidden from anything and you are just the private counsellor. And we're going to make a brief historical introduction, because you like it so much – it's going to be short for the last few years, because, if not, I wouldn't give it time. December 13, 2013: crowds of demonstrations on the street in Vigo, 50,000 people against their management, with a two-day strike that, in some center, even covered 80% of their follow-up. February 14, 2014: 5,000 in Pontevedra. February 13, 2014: 40,000 people on Vigo Streets. March 26, 2014: let's go back to the streets against their politics. July 1, 2014: concentration in front of Vigo hospital for the privatization of the new hospital. October 9, 2014: Multiversinary event in Vigo. December 11, 2014: Vigo protest against the privatization of the new Vigo hospital – from the kitchen, laundry and maintenance – of all those people you're going to send to the street; strike in the work centers. February 2015: strike of medical personnel at the Mexoeiro hospital; strike of hunger in Povisa for layoffs. March 19, 2015: demonstration in all regions, also, against the Health Insurance Act and its privatization policies. September 3: 200,000 people in the streets of Vigo, a human tide screaming, asking for his resignation. That's why I think you're already a political corpse. The president of the board is not even here to defend her. You just voted against investigating, giving information to the Galicians and the Greeks about what's going on, you just voted in spite of everything you just reported here. Of course, they didn't go out talking to workers and workers who, like spartans and spartans, endured under the rain the dignity they have and you lack. They put in their mouths, continuously, the professionals, because out there there were seven professional buses from Vigo hospitals and you weren't there to go out and talk to them, and these Members and Members weren't there to go out and talk to them. In addition, you sent the state's security forces and bodies, on many occasions, to reprimand the workers and workers, for example: 2013, inside the Ferrol hospital, against the workers and workers who protested; 2014, forces and security forces inside the Vigo hospital when workers and workers were on strike and defended the jobs; January 2014, a court denounced the power diversion at the promotion of their husband; March 2014, you extended the contract of work at the new Vigo hospital when the possibility of extension was no longer met; June 2014, they admitted five years of eviction at the Mexoños hospital in which it even rained in the carers; they approved the Health Insurance Act to facilitate privatization in 2014; you did in the summer of 2014 a terrible management in the case of Ebola: lack of information, lack of materials, lack of security; 2015 you hid the report of the Bioethics in that you talked about, you provided inequalities; That's why you're a political corpse. And these are examples of bad public health management. Mrs. Mosquera, you, who is allowed to call the Welsh and Galician health illiterates, is responsible for a disastrous hospital at a multi-million cost. The workers and workers, in an intervention I had recently in an act in defense of public health, told us, "We asked nine isolation rooms, in advance, with an area to change our relatives, with glass on the door to find out if the patients were okay. They made only six standard rooms, without the front door, with no glass on the door, no pressure systems." It's been months, ma'am, people who are isolated can't get out. I have a partner who overcame cancer and when I was hearing this -- I was in isolation for four months -- I was crying. The matrons tell us: there are four plants away between the paritory area and the O.R.; the gynaecology boxes have no bathroom; the coven where the cones are washed with urine and excrement, are washed against where the surgeons entering the delivery are washed; the surgeons have a pill with a bucket to wash before entering the O.R.; the dilatation rooms have no sinks to wash from fluids and blood. Mrs. Mosquera, the tire tubes are stuck, the hospital is dirty, there are rats, there's no machinery, there's no cranes, they're moving patients on their wrists like forty years ago. The archive of pathological anatomy samples is telling us, in a dark room, with drops, damps and low-key concessionaires. They told us that, as a result of not being able to access the samples, treatments of oncotoxic patients that had to be reviewed according to the samples of pathological anatomy were delayed ten days, ten days! Magnetic resonance imaging is done in a truck, they opened a hospital without TAC; every time a patient, regardless of his physical state, needs a resonance, he needs to be moved with the bed or the camel inside the truck, pulled him out of the plant and put him into the truck. I don't know if that's normal in your world. The hospital doesn't have a central lab, every analysis, every day we have to do, we have to move it with a transport. Of course private. All this is reported by those and those whom you called irresponsible for manifesting on the third day in Vigo Streets. Those same workers and workers who were in the rain waiting for a decency you don't possess. We don't want pamphlets, Mrs Mosquera, we want you to explain to us everything I just told you, that explains the cuts in surgicals, in the beds, that explains where that report is, what you referred to, about Price Waterhouse, which cost 220,000 euros and is missing – if you have it there, because thank you, make me a copy and leave it to my chair. Which explains to us by what type of contract Galaria has helped this technical office to a company created with 3,000 euros at the home of Ana Sánchez. And that explains why, despite everything I just reported and just reported the rest of the voices, the manager just announced, precisely, that the transfers resume on Monday. And explain to us too, obviously, why he's still sitting there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u172	Mrs. Solla, I'm not taking any expression away from what you've just said, but I'd just like to remind you that there's no need to use according to what expressions, that I think they are undermining and paying attention to the dignity of people, and I think you've repeated three times an expression in relation to the counselor that I don't think is necessary. It's just a reconvention of the presidency. [[Murmurs.]] The representative of the Socialist Group, Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u173	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, I'd like to know what that word is not to repeat it and not to see me in the awkward situation... Look, I was saying a Salesian who taught me in Ourense, when I was studying EXB, that lies must be read and I think it's the best metaphor in history that you told us today, Counselor. I recommend a book, a novel – perhaps it has already read – by Rafael Chirbes who just died, which is called on the shore, and which speaks of the capitalism of friends, the capitalism of friends. I mean, he's talking about the origins of the situation we're in right now. And that friendly capitalism, which was detestable when it applied to the construction and the beaches of the Mediterranean, is inhuman and immoral when it applies to a basic right as public health, Counselor. And that's what we're talking about here, you know? You can come here... I see that your entire team of directors from Vigo hospital is there – the truth is, I thank you – and I also have some comments to make to you, although I know you're not in the debate, Madam President, because, when you send threatening emails to professionals remembering deontological codes – professionals who have been in public health for years who have neither had nor worked for private health, what they had to do was to get colored some who are around. That's what they had to do. [[Applause]] For this fundamental right which was consolidated in this country thanks to the Socialist Party in 1986 with the law of Minister Lluch, as you well know, is what we are defending here proudly, Counsellor, and we will not tolerate that private business – which knows that it has lost many economic opportunities in the crisis and that it knows that public spending on health is the last remaining shelter – to put a lot of money into Vigo's public health. You know they lose votes every time they try to do business with the disease of the vigues and the vigues. They know perfectly well, but they're more interested in the business and results accounts of Actoa and Company. And now we have the result we have, Counselor, we have propaganda and business and, therefore, we have a failure, because in the theory of propaganda and business, the corollary is always, always, that the business takes place. The business, if you let it act freely, imposes on the citizens' rights, especially when the citizens, Counsellor – I don't know if you've been at the hospital entrance door beyond the day you escaped from the professionals – they come... listen, listen, and don't look at that face I feel... my psychic balance has to preserve it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u174	Quiet, please, I'm talking to Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u175	I claim the right to be assaulted by the face, by the expression, of the Counselor's Lady, I would only miss...! Of course, yes, yes, yes... [[Applause]] By the way, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u176	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u177	...so much so that now the vice president, who called us "carroneros" to the 200,000 vigues and vigues - yes, yes, in headlines - that we were on the street in Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u178	Mrs. Piñeiro!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u179	Mr. Feijó called us irresponsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u180	Mrs. Piñeiro! Mrs. Piñeiro, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u181	Mr. Feijóo called us irresponsible and Mr. Rueda was one step further in this meritorious and called us carpenters. I read it in the local press, I don't know if it's true. I felt affected. Maybe I'm very sensitive, too. Yes, it is possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, I want to ask you some questions, after what you told us here. Tell us the real reason why the financing model was changed, because you know that the cost of building the hospital, within six or seven years, meant little more than 0.1% deficit. Four hundred million euros between seven means approximately 0,1 %. What's wrong? On the one hand, Mr. Feijóo was more complicated to go around pretending to be the magnificent manager of the zero deficit, but that's not the most important thing. The most important is not the image, in this case, of Mr. Feijóo, the most important is the result account of that company that you say is not the owner of the hospital. I'm very sorry, but the right to trade is against you. On the balance of who's that hospital as an asset, not the company or Sergas's, Counselor's? Tell me that, stop talking nonsense here and tell stories that write to you, I suppose the offices at Vigo Hospital. On what balance sheet is the accountant active in that hospital? Where is it, not Sergas or a company? In a company, right? So the company is the owner, Counselor. I'm not talking about medical benefits or those issues, I'm trying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u182	Silence! Mr. Gómez Alonso! [[Mr. Gómez Alonso utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u183	I'm trying to get you to explain that to me. I am trying to explain to myself, Counsellor, how it is possible that, in the face of the enormous difficulties in financing the entire business fabric of this Autonomous Community, the Government of Beijóo was unable to negotiate with the European Investment Bank or a single credit – he said the other day, in Commission 6th, the Director General of the Igape, I am not inventing anything. And you're evaluating a credit for a private company that has an annual benefit rate, according to its own data, of 10% a year right now, Counselor. Isn't that true? Well, I think it's true. So maybe, actually, the data that the company provides to the commercial register is wrong, but, of course, I'm not a guesser, I move exactly with the data that that company provides to the commercial register. I've taken the trouble of seeing them; if you want, I'll give you the reference so that you have a more solvent data. I want to know also, Counsellor, why the cut is produced, in the construction project, in hospital beds, in surgery beds, in ICU beds, in emergency observation beds, in the lab... remember when you said, "These professionals complain about new offices." Yes, yes, don't surprise me again, because it gives me the feeling that I'm in a sort of mystical revelation. Listen, you said in Vigo's press, that lab professionals didn't ask for salary or work improvements for them, that they asked the lab to be where the critics' door is, in that magnificent big hospital, the best in Europe – which must be the only one that doesn't have it, that's 11 kilometers away – is the only one that doesn't have it. You said that "the scream of the professionals was due to a problem of new offices or a problem of logistics." He said it, I don't know if I thought it or not, but, in any case, he did. Look, I have here the data, the data drawn, I insist, from the profile of the concession company S.A. Do you know how much the benefit, before taxes, of that company, dear – I repeat, is not invented either Abel Losada or the Socialist Party of Galicia or any Jewish conxure? 24.6 million euros in 2015, profits before taxes, 26.1 million euros in 2020 and 22.5 million euros in 2025, by putting them five in five, which is what appears here. By the way, they also appear here – and it's true that it may be wrong – beds, 1,465. I don't know if you say again that there are 1,465 hospital beds. Of course, professionals say no. I didn't go there to tell them, I have to say it, but, anyway, the professionals, I insist, say it's not true. You must also explain to us, Counsellor, the Galaria decision to supply, or from the follow-up technical office, to a company – the comrades have said so – created ad hoc, EUR 3,500 of social capital. The truth is that I'm not surprised, and I'm not surprised sometimes because, to verify a work that costs about 350 million euros, a company with 3,500 euros of social capital has technical verification capacity; to see if it's going to be because that person, in fact, has relatively friendly or privileged relationships with the People's Party and has also acquired previous work experience in Madrid's health care, because I repeat, at best, there are four dimensions, but, I insist, this humble Member is surprised by a civil work of 400 million euros, verified by a single-person society – and he already sees that I don't open my eyes as dishes, it must be that I have a less expressive profile, of course –. In any case, we know what he answers. It answers exactly that this company worked with the material, technical and human resources of its own dealership; that is, it's how to put exactly the fox to look after the chickens, but it doesn't matter, everything was left at home, because the company's director was before a high charge of Madrid's health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u184	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u185	Finished, Madam President. Anyway, I'd like to know this decision, too, and we'll talk about it. I'd like to know about security in the transfer of the hospital – I still have a second shift. Today it was said that Aspergillus was detected in some samples taken at Vigo hospital, yes or no? Because if it is, you lied when, solemnly, a week ago, after talking about the Socialist Party of Galicia and other opposition groups, you said there was no. Today in the teletypes – I'm not a microbiologist, I'm a humble economist – it says that they collected, they detected, samples of Aspergillus in the hospital. Were they or were they not? And if there were, and I imagine there were... or rather, if there weren't, why did they paralyze that so shaky transfer? Why? Why did they paralyze him? If there really wasn't, if everything was all right, if everything was perfect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u187	...if microbiological and environmental controls were perfect, why did they paralyze him? Because they don't want to paralyze him, especially because the company, which is the boss, Counselor – as much as you don't like, it's the boss – wants to start collecting the cannon as soon as possible. That's why you make a transfer like what you do, and that's why 200,000 carnagemen and I don't know that Vigo was on the street anymore. And, by the way,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u189	...then we'll follow, bad for you, Mr. Feijóo and the Vice President of the German Government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u190	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Santalices Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u191	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Madam President. I am deeply sorry, Mr. Losada, that you had felt attacked by a facial expression. Each person has his facial expressions, but you're in the debate... you can then replicate me, but don't you realize that he's in the debate? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And yet... of course, if you're in the debate. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I was just trying to explain that each of you has the mastheter muscles as you have them. That contraction is a trismus, and you must not, under any concept, consider it an aggression, God free me! We will debate here in depth, but never since the perspective of aggression, only that would be missing! We discussed Álvaro Cunqueiro whatever he wants, but not from the perspective of aggression. There was, Counselor, good news. I'm glad the transfer will be recovered on the 21st. A lot of problems will disappear from there. It's all written. As of the 21st day and when the transfer is over, the Cunqueiro Alvaro will work as a reference hospital and it will be a pointer hospital, but it takes time, this is the problem. Look, you gave here a lot of information today, Counselor, both of what was the start-up process of the construction of the Cunqueiro Álvaro and of what was your transfer. You were the counsellor who opened, opened, put into operation the Cunqueiro Álvaro, and that has an added danger. Of course, he's got an extra danger... you know who. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was not given much ease, no ease; he was given from an administration whose responsibility was, above all, to put a hand on a supra-municipal project that affected not only the area of Vigo but the health area of Ourense. Yes, this is the reality, and I'm not going to shut up for you, because I'm clear of the gross non-compliance... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u192	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u193	...which occurred because it didn't collaborate on the part of an administration. Look, from the very first moment President Feijóo decided to inaugurate the construction and launch the construction of Álvaro Cunqueiro created a problem. A problem has been created for a leader, for a leader of the Vigo Town Hall, whom I affectionately define as "the beloved leader." From that point on, there was a problem. From there – yes, Mr. Gallego, this must be heard –... No, it's not scary; if it's not about shaking, it's about things... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u194	Mr. Gallego, I'll call you in order for a second time. Mr. Gallego...! [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u195	That's good, man, that there's a certain rusty roar and that you're restless when the hospital starts working on me, it gives me satisfaction. I want the hospital to work. You go on with this thing, if you think so, interrupting... Perfect, me, nothing. Look, from there it was all a policy of pitfalls and deceit. The Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital was a threat to Caballero. He wasn't the leader, he wasn't the boss, he wasn't the protagonist of this story; therefore, he had only one goal, which? Dynamitize the project, it had to be dynamite as it had been. That was the only target. There's enough literature on this way of acting and on this way of acting, I'm not going to be here now who touches most on this issue, but it's very described. And this policy, Counselor, has caused obstructionism, of course it has caused great obstructionism, and has also made building and putting it into operation difficult. But it's won, that obstacle has been overcome, and today the hospital is working. There are also deception policies, which I already know bothers you, but you have to remember them. A two-party government adviser and a mayor of the People's Party signed an agreement in 2006 for the collaboration of a hospital, and there it was said – as the advisor quite rightly said – in her eighth clause, that the land should be sold free of charge -- in 2006 they had to be given free of charge, and nothing was given. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I said this morning: of the 280,000 yards of what you talked about today, the Vigo Town Hall's assignment was 103 meters, 103 meters. [[Murmurs.]] Well, and besides, you've forgotten a lot of things, how this process started. It should be recalled that in 2007 it began with the process of what was to be the functional plan of the construction of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. And then the first problem started. We had to take a step back, because at that moment, which governed the bipartisan, it turns out that the Secretary-General of the Council helped the process of the functional plan to a company – we did well what I'm going to say – of what Mr. Secretary was a partner. And he had to resign. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, he resigned at parliamentary headquarters, yes, yes. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u196	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u197	He had to resign. That company exists, it still exists today, and there if... No, no, why not? [[Protests.]] Home! I think you've had enough years in this Parliament to know that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u198	Mrs. Hold Mr. Gallego! They have a second call to order and the next one knows what it means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u199	I'm counting palpable, palpable facts... yes, yes, palpable and demonstrable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That gentleman submitted the resignation, eh!, submitted the resignation. Yes, yes, and the company was there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u200	Mr. Santalices, no dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u201	Look, all the municipalities collaborate on matters like this handing over land, all of them. There are precedents here in Galicia, they all gave in to the construction of the hospital. In Vigo it couldn't be, it couldn't be because, well, it's who it is, imperceptibly and so on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] About the financing model. You, Mr. Losada, who is an economist, I am not – I say so, eh! – but I put the numbers in a simpler way. From the hospital project you always talk of 1,200, 1.3 billion euros that will be the cost. One canon of 68 million euros per year is paid for 20 years, and at the age of 20, Sergas owns that hospital. Do you know how much you're paying today? What do you mean? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you mean, no? That's what we're paying for. Or isn't it cleaned up in hospitals today? There's no security in hospitals? It's all 35 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He had to be discounted. The General Intervention of the State has just supported – and I have always said it here and there are the hemotheques – that the hospital will have an estimated cost of 600 million euros, always! They just said it, and I'm telling you, cost approximately 600 million euros. Look, what's bothering you is that, in time of recession, you haven't done anything, a health center or anything, and we, in times of crisis, because look: you build the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, you make the plan of the Hospital da Coruña, open up and equip the Hospital de Lugo. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] In Ourense, a large hospital is built with European funds, something you want to dynamize. And the plans are made for the directors of the Salnés Hospital and the Marine Hospital. Figures I already gave, Mr. Losada. You, who's an economist, beat me later if the data isn't, but the cost of that real we have, the 35 million euros have to be spent, because hospitals are still working. About the transfer. The transfer must be presided over by prudence, but here they speak. I don't agree that unauthorized people speak on a strictly health issue, a subject that addresses preventive medicine and reaches microbiology. And you can't launch funeral messages, population alert messages by people who have no idea of this. And all they do is try to alert... yes, of course, they don't, no, no, of course not. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Can you tell me, but Mr. Beaster, what do you know about this? What do you know about this, Mr. Beaster? And he speaks of immediate evacuation of Mr. Besteiro. But what do you know about Mr. Knight of Health Care? Please! [[Applause]] What are they talking about? It's just that this is very serious, and throwing messages like that... Look, I don't want under any concept, I don't want under any concept... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u202	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u203	...think the problem you're putting on the table, Mrs. Acuña. I don't want to put this thing together, eh! And you have just recorded an inquiry into Aspergillus that God has set me free! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Marine screen! We'll discuss it. What do you intend to do with that interpellation? [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u204	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u205	You must have a little more seriousness in speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u206	I'm sorry, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u207	That's why, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u208	Ma'am! Excuse me a moment, Mr. Santalices. Mrs. Acuña already... Mrs. Acuña, you had two calls to order, I think your attitude deserves a third call to order, because you are repeatedly violating the rights of the other Members of this House, who won't let you listen to them. I ask you to leave the plenary meeting. I ask you to leave the plenary meeting. [[Murmurs.]] [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Santalices, can you... Ma'am! Don't you want to come to the next plenary session, Mrs. Acuña? Do the favor, do the favor. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] If you do not leave the plenary session immediately, you will not come to the next plenary session, Mrs. Acuña. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do the favor. Quit it, quit it. Don't let me kick her out one more day. Quit it. [[Mrs. Acuña do Campo leaves the sitting room.]] Mr. Santalices, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u209	I'm done, Madam President, asking you a question that I'm interested in the health advisor. A lot has been said about transport safety, how transportation was done to the hospital and the safety of patients. I understand, as far as I know, that the medical inspection has acted on this matter. I would like, with regard to these professionals, that you in your intervention have made clear to me what the role of the medical inspection is and what it has determined about the safety of patients. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. Replica from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, there are messages that you systematically release and that, well, I'm still surprised. When you talk about a small hospital, a small hospital, a hospital... well, I don't know what hospital you're talking about. Yes, again. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, as I told you more than once, the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is three times larger than the General Hospital. So, really, I'm unable to know what you mean when you talk about a cut hospital, a reduced hospital and a large hospital... yes, I've seen it too, ladies, I've seen it. [[Applause]] But well, those are the things you say. Look, the argument for privatization of health services has come from far away. For many years now, those who have been managing the public health service for a long time have had to hear about, especially trade union organizations, but also political organizations, privatization. And, of course – and I will say, ladies and gentlemen – it is an absolutely sterile debate, absolutely sterile, because it does not lead to anything. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The collaboration of companies in the provision of certain services is a reality throughout the National Health Service, in all autonomous communities, regardless of the political color of their rulers. Cleaning is being provided by companies in the sector in all public hospitals in Spain, for many years now, and in no case do they lose their public character because cleaning is lending a private company. The machines, the radiology apparatus, the labs, the anesthesia machines are all supplied by companies, and now some say we privatize the lab because the machines are from such or which company. Or the tech partner, who comes to privatize high technology. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, all the care services are provided by staff of the Galician Health Service. It is already an argument which cannot be applied to privatization. All the health professionals who are going to work at Álvaro Cunqueiro are working in the other hospitals in the city of Vigo: General, Mexoeiro, Ciías or Doubleda. It is true that there are a number of services that will be contracted: security, cleaning, restoration, gardening, energy supply. But – I said – of the twelve that are in the scope of the concession, nine, are already being lent by external companies in the other hospitals of Vigo, and the other three are being lent by companies in other points, in other hospitals of Galicia, and of course in other hospitals of the state, and with complete satisfaction by managers and professionals. The difference, in this case, is that the recruitment, rather than being individualized and issuing an invitation to tender for each of these services, is by a single entity. And this, frankly, what it does is to improve control, it's to improve quality. And of course there was no doubt in them, ladies and gentlemen, that he would be subject to all quality controls, just as they were hired individually. In fact, penalties for breach of contracts or for failure to meet quality criteria are already collected in the signed contract – it was already in contract terms. They're the indicators, they're the quality criteria you have to meet, and since then the Galego Health Service, the management team of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, will soon comply and will do them. But – I repeat – the care services are all staffed by the Galego Health Service, the same ones that are currently providing them. And, of course, patients won't have to pay for this. With regard to the recruitment model, well, when we arrived in 2009 at the Galego Health Service, as I said before, there was already a plan for economic and financial viability there, above the table, there was already an economic and financial plan, precisely that analyzed different models of recruitment. One of them was the PFI. You've decided to discuss this, if SPI, if PFI, if I don't know what, and of course they haven't built it. We had to make a decision, and the decision we made was that we needed a hospital in Vigo, and that we needed it already, that Vigo's citizenship couldn't wait any longer for a hospital that came to remedy the situation where Vigo's health was in, with a hospital of the sixties and under conditions that we all know he had the General, or that he still has the General. As far as costs are concerned, well, the fact is that they still messed up with costs from 400 million of the work to 1.3 billion. In fact, it cannot be compared – and Mr. Losada, you know it – just what the cost of the work with which it is the provision of services for twenty years. See, even the report from the General Intervention of the State, which, as I told you, is May 2010, explained very clearly: "The estimated total investment amounts to 374 million – including VAT – which includes EUR 37.9 million of the intercalar financial expenditure of the financing line. The estimated total budget for the costs associated with the operation of infrastructure, total, which includes all services, is EUR 434 million constant in 2010, and is estimated at EUR 566.3 million current over the concessional period." It's not even a report from the Galego Health Service, it's a report so the General Intervention of the State endorses the contract being made with this dealership at that time. Of course, these are the costs, on the one hand the construction costs and on the other hand the costs of the services being provided, and that of course they have to continue to lend for these twenty years, because cleaning, security and energy management have to be provided for these twenty years. As for the transfer, well, I think it's safer than what we're trying to do with the transfer of this hospital. In no case have we taken into account any criteria which were not strictly safety criteria. At the hospital, there were working groups with the professionals, and a standing committee of heads of service, who are analysing jointly with the Preventive Medicine Service, and with these the management makes all decisions in order to ensure patient safety and, of course, the safety of the professionals. Every week, the management informs the Personal Meeting of the decisions taken and answers to how many questions it would like to raise. And with this same committee, and with this same Preventive Medina Service, they decide on the 21st day to resume the transfer. Of course, I won't be able to question either the Preventive Medicine Service or the Chief Service Committee or, of course, the hospital management. At the moment of the transfer, the new Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital has already attended 48,000 consultations and 350 hospital discharges. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, with complete certainty, guaranteed by the chiefs of service, guaranteed by the Preventive Medicine Service and by the direction of the centre, to which, of course, I, of course, will not question nor question, that I guarantee you. As for the demonstrators, look, all my respect for the demonstrators, of course. In no case did I question the need or that they might... but look, this demonstration is all that makes us work more; working more to put in place a model hospital with all the difficulties it brings, with all the problems that can happen, with all the situations. But, really, all of the vibes know that, of course, what we're going to do is work, work and work so that the transfer is carried out in the best possible conditions and, of course, to enjoy the hospital they deserve. I also say that today we have a new hospital in Vigo and that this hospital will be what professionals and workers will allow us to do, and I am convinced that it will be a great hospital. [[Applause]] Look, the truth is, they're pretty much related to quality control and the Technical Monitoring Office. Quality control, of course, is not done by the company you refer to The quality control, which is done by the Galician Health Service; it is done, Your Honor; it is done by quality control. It is a report made by a company, by three specific companies – by an ETU of three companies – and, of course, none of them holds Dr. Ana Sánchez. In particular, these companies have a contract that was signed on September 5, 2011. You seem to be now discovering the contract, the contract price or the financial and economic viability report, which has been hung on the website and which, of course, was well known. See, this TEU is formed – as I say – by specialized companies, as is customary, on the other hand, in all contracts of the different public administrations, and provided the services that were collected in the contract, engineering, quality control, laboratory tests, testing and elaboration of precise prototypes for the execution of the building project. Throughout the construction process it took control of the project, including geothermal counseling, structure and facilities, material control, with a broad general plan of testing and testing of this entity, execution control, technical assistance with reports, studies, analyses, is what is always done with the quality controls of the Galician Health Service, which were also carried out in this contract, as it could not be otherwise. On the other hand, the Technical Follow-up Office, which is also in the contract that was signed with the concessionaire in 2011 and which seems to have just discovered it now, the functions given to it in this contract, in these recruitment requirements, the functions that correspond to it, summarized, but that are in the contract, with which they can be seen or facilitated, are: the coordination of the actions necessary for the hospital to set up, including the different agents involved in each phase of the project. Maintain the planning of the various activities necessary for the hospital's start-up. Carry out methodological, administrative and documentary support for follow-up meetings. This, in short, is what puts the contract for the Technical Monitoring Office. As you can see, coordination and follow-up functions, but –reitero – at all, the quality controls of the work, which was carried out by specialized companies. And, of course, it's not a millionaire contract, as it seems you want to put on the table, but it's paid a contract, obviously, within the average of the Galician Health Service contracts. And as for Ana Sánchez's resume, look, I'm not going to defend Ana Sánchez, she's a professional who's been serving public health for over thirty years in both Galicia and the rest of the state. He's been, he's been, yeah, too, and he's also... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u212	Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u213	...and yet didn't carry the high-tech contract, see you, sir? Look, and... about what he said about the Radiology Service... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u214	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u215	...I think the clearest thing we can say about the Radiology Service has been said by your own chief of staff. Ensures that the staffing is sufficient to cope with the transfer. They're statements from the chief of staff, they're not mine. They're also press statements from the chief of staff. But I can also say the following: The Radiology Service has two TAC teams, two TACs, like those in the General, one in 16 and another in 64. Yes, it has a mobile resonance, even now a mobile resonance of 1.5 Teslas which is actually also going to all the other hospitals in the Galician Health Service. But there will also be a resonance that is moving from the General and, of course, a resonance of 3 Teslas coming from the tech partner. In addition to all this, you're going to have all the technology you need, because if you're installing all the equipment, all the equipment, you're going to need the new hospital to meet the assistance needs you're going to have with the citizens who are in the new hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. As for the beds, you know I don't really like to focus the debate on the number of beds in a hospital. I've told you on many occasions that this is not a good indicator of quality, but look at you, even the report of the Public Health Defense Platform, of the Public Health Defense Association, says that Galicia has an average bed per 1,000 inhabitants above the state average. And Vigo has an average bed per 1,000 inhabitants far above Galician measure. With which I believe – I am convinced – that, of course, you will have a number of beds more than enough to meet all Vigo citizens, according to your ordinary activity. Obviously, as the manager already explained, at some point, we started with these 845 conventional hospitalization beds, but here you have to add the critical units, the pediatric units and the emergencies, and this hospital will gradually open up, according to the care needs, as you're getting started, the beds you need. And, of course, it will be possible to have the number of beds that allow us to respond at every moment to the care activity of the most populated area of Galicia, and with a number of beds per 1,000 inhabitants – as I said – above what the rest of the health areas have. Regarding the surgeons, I also tell you that, of course, today can be one of the bottlenecks that the hospital has. But first, centralization will allow them much better management, and of course, what will allow us is that the provision that remains in Vigo, between the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro and the hospital Mexoeiro, will be more than enough to meet the entire population and all the care demands that Vigo has and that Vigo will have. And we're gradually going to reduce waiting lists, especially priority 3, since priority 1 and priority 2 I think they're quite well-guided, and we're going to be able to get the averages that the rest of the Galician Health Service has. But look – and I don't want to insist much more on what Mr. Santlices has already said – what happened to the Vigo Council at all stages of construction of this new hospital does not resist comparison with any other health infrastructure, Galicia or outside of Galicia. In the Galician Health Service we work with most of the municipalities, with municipalities of different political organizations, and of course what is common is that the municipalities collaborate in the execution of health infrastructures. In the cases of the hospitals of Santiago and Lugo, for example, in both municipalities they were able to make available – and they were from the Socialist Party –, they made available... No, it's a hundred percent public hospital, Mr. Losada, and I've already shown it to you, a hundred percent public hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've told him seven times since I started my appearance. And, of course, both Lugo and Santiago, who were from the Socialist Party, were able to make available to the Galician Health Service the land and all the infrastructures for their put into operation. Unfortunately, the Vigo Council signed an agreement in 2006 with the members of the Socialist Party, Caride and Rubio, and however, it has been systematically failing to do so for all these years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those and any other arrangements that could be put in place. With which, I would ask you, with the greatest sanitary infrastructure ever built in Vigo, to recapitulate and be able to help put it into action and not keep putting sticks on the wheel. Look, regarding the parking lot, it is always a problem in all public hospitals of the Galego Health Service. But there are examples like the Coruña where no parking space is available for users. There is a private parking space in an adjacent plot – by the way, placed by the municipality – where there are 1,000 free and available squares, but reality and which is virtually impossible, especially on the morning, to park in this area. The only way to ensure the availability of immediate parking space to the hospital is to park like what we built in Vigo, as mentioned on the other hand in the plan of viability and as stated in the contract of this parking. Currently in Vigo, at Nicolás Peña, there is no parking space, the only alternative is time, and, of course, it is very complicated to be able to park in the entire surroundings of the Nicolás Peña hospital. At the Mexeiro hospital there is a parking space of about 500 squares, in which, as you do not arrive at the first hour of the morning, it is also very difficult to park. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, there are several unauthorized parking spaces, which are usually called read-parks around. And in the General, of course, the same thing happens, and the private car parks around the hospital are much more expensive than we're talking about. As I said earlier, in the contract signed in 2011 it is said that the rates to be set in this park will be the average of the current rates in the city of Vigo. And of course, what is also true is that there are staff bonuses and there are allowances for patients for five, ten days and one month, with the cost going to be 4, 3 or 2 euros respectively. But we don't deal with this. Now we're working with patient associations -- I think they already know -- and, by the way, we've already reached an agreement with cancer association so that oncology patients who go to the hospital today can have these bonds in discontinuous terms, so that the cost of these patients is about the average that they have in the readers-parks of the Mexoneiro hospital. We will continue to work with Alcer and other associations and we will continue to work to, of course, facilitate all patients, all Vigo citizens, that these costs are such... and, on the other hand, there can always be an alternative: that the Town Hall – which has not placed a euro until now for the construction of the hospital – make a free parking in its surroundings. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Parking is the competence of the Town Hall, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u216	Mr. Losada, I think I haven't given you the floor yet, I'll repeat it again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u217	And on the other hand, it's also negotiating to have 500 squares funded by the Galician Health Service for professionals. I was wondering, Mr. Santalices, about the inspection service. Health inspection, as you know, has, among other functions, to be the guarantor of the actions carried out by the health system and the quality of care, as well as to ensure the rights of citizens. Therefore, in this case, the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro – and in its transfer – is working on three lines of action: on the one hand, in the inspection of the hospital to check whether the conditions of authorization of the health centre are met and therefore the technological requirements for its implementation are met; on the second line, which is investigating the actions carried out in the care and treatment of the patient who died in the UCI and who originated a written and media debate between the service chiefs and workers forum of the UCI itself and which also serves as the basis for the demand submitted by the medical syndicate CESM; and on a third line of research on the filtering of a clinical history into the media. As you know, the Data Protection Act states that health data must have a higher level of protection and therefore custody, and all healthcare professionals are obliged to maintain those basic principles. An offence is considered to be an offence in violation of that law. In addition, medical professionals are obliged by the deontological code to keep the professional secret and confidentiality about the data of our patients. The first line of action has already been completed and the report concludes – and I read literally –: "As a result of the inspection visit carried out in the intensive care unit of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, it can be concluded that the unit meets the structural, material and human requirements laid down in the applicable legislation, Decree 12/2008 of 8 January, which regulates the authorization of health centres, services and establishments, and Decree 186/2003 of 6 March, so that the procedure, requirements and conditions of authorization of the hospitals of the Autonomous Community of Galicia are fixed." This is the conclusion of the Health Service Inspectorate. The other two lines are in full search. I would ask that we let the inspectors work with all autonomy and do it with the utmost rigour. Of course, we're not going to question – or I think no one will question – the work of the Health Inspectorate. And, of course, I would like to convey to you that the information they compile will be strictly, with all contemporaneousness and that which they esteem with complete and absolute independence. It's the only thing I can tell you as an advisor: that they work fast, that they can be, that they work completely independent and that they make their recommendations that they think are timely and consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u218	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u219	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the truth is, I don't even know what it's like for me to go out and defend the Knight. It just seems amazing to me because it would be the last thing that would happen to me, so, to the boat soon. But I really have to admit that you don't understand anything. It's not a Caballero problem. The citizenship of Vigo's health area is not particularly stupid or manipulatable. It is not that Mr. Caballero convinces the citizens of the Vigo area that this hospital is private, that it is born cut and that it has a number of problems; no, it is the citizens themselves who look at the problem and manifest themselves. That's not the problem, and you want to reduce it to a problem with the Socialist Party. That's simple! Do you really think that the Greeks and the Greeks are so stupid? I'd ask you a little more respect for the collective intelligence of this people. You're talking about the fact that only non-health services are privatized – obviously, there's nothing else you can do – and that this is going to cost 35 million a year. I mean, it spends Sergas the public money to keep private companies that create precarious work in terrible conditions and that they also serve worse, and it's proven. So, you have an interest in doing business, not in providing a good health benefit. And a reduced hospital is born. How can you say, "It's three times that of the General"? It can be in size; in services, no. So, you're lying, you're talking square meters, not about the services the hospital is going to provide. That's really what we're worried about. As we're concerned, and neither does it say here, that Vigo and Pontevedra's health area are the ones with the least personal ratio in the whole of Galicia. Why don't you count those things, too? We have the lowest ratio of staff. And I don't tell you about nursing anymore. In nursing, we're the last ones, when you know, besides, that nursing is fundamental to giving good quality care. Quality control of contracts. I love quality control because just as the Inspectorate controls and so on in public health, I've also seen favorable reports from the Labour Inspectorate in relation to Povervisa and I give him my word that there were more lies than those reports. What's the matter is that you only talk to the heads of the service. If the chief of staff says it's okay, the rest of the staff or the patients consult them, not even the legal representation of the workers. It's the opinion of the chiefs of service who, of course, will say what they have to say. As for the financing model, it says it was because of the urgency of dealing with deficiencies in the area, and it turns out that there is no deficiency. Vigo's health area will remain weak. But in addition to the Board of Auditors itself has already called attention to the Health Council for the management model it is following in the health services. Day 21 says the transfer will be made. I hope Aspergillus is gone. I hope this time they do what they should do the first time, which is check that the facilities are in a position to proceed with the transfer of patients, and don't run the transfer without checking the conditions. Not only was it about a safe transfer, but it was also about the fact that Vigo's health area wants a public hospital, it doesn't want to resonate in trucks. We want a hospital with all the services, and you give us a hospital that's born without basic services, like the lab can be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u220	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u221	Quality control, privatised as well. A UTE is what you're going to do, didn't you say? As for radiology, which has sufficient resources to respond to demand, I would really like it to tell us what it is based on, how many more devices it will have, whether there will be in Vigo mammograms of these high resolution news, which there is only in the Coruña, and what it will provide us with. And, besides, let us clarify that privatization of high technology as well. As for the parking lot, I loved the one from the read-park. I think you should... I don't know. It must have been news from the press, right?: In Vigo we have read-parks because the Administration doesn't put free parking; then we have read-parks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in the Mexier's read-parks a pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u222	Finish up, Mrs. Martínez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u223	...and I'm going to finish – according to what you can pay, what you think you should pay; here they force everyone to pay an unabated amount. And it can't be compared to the rest of the hospitals, as you talked about Nicolás Peña, because Nicolás Peña stays in the center, on Camelias Street, and there are buses to go to Camelias Street...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u225	...to the windshield. I'm done. It's a scandal that's now coming to talk to us about bonds for oncology. And I ask you, what about patients with dialysis, and patients with respiratory disease? The others who pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u227	Of course, it is amazing to see how today's councillor and spokesperson of the People's Party on health: to insult the intelligence of the Greek people – yes – of the neighbors and neighbors of Vigo's health area, calling them irresponsible and let themselves be manipulated. Counsellor, to these thousands of people, to these thousands of people who have gone out into the street and who seem you haven't seen, because it turns out that, if we meet in a situation where there's a majority of the population that says and that applauds the performance of the Government, right! but if there are thousands of people who criticize and disagree with the actions of the Government, oh!, there we are in error and then they are manipulated and discrediting public health. Of course, you're not too ashamed. I am convinced that these thousands of people, among the many thousands, will already pass the bill corresponding to so much scrapping, because today they have repeatedly insulted the intelligence ability of the people of Greece to analyze what is happening to them, what they are suffering, because most of these people have gone out into the street after seeing live and live what is being Vigo's private hospital; after they have found it, after they've come there and had to pay a lot of money for being parked there, Counselor. You came here today to assume that you have reached some kind of agreement with some association. What you forget is that there is no agreement with many others, for example, those who are going to dialysis. There's no deal with those who aren't in that group and have chronic patients there or have long-term hospitalized patients or with professionals who, of course, are not worth a bonus, because that means less pay by the end of the month. And it is also – you understand? – a privatization of the hospital that goes to Madrid. Have you ever put that weird face in Madrid before? Do you read it here? Hospital de Vigo, Aljamil, Paseo de la Castellana. That's where you bill your privatisation, Mrs Mosquera, in Madrid. The Greeks and the Greeks paid for them to bill in Madrid; the Greeks and the Greeks paid taxes for you to deliver it to Madrid companies. Galliza pays and Madrid picks up one more time. That's your model: Galicia pays and Madrid collects. They are here uniquely and exclusively for the interests of these companies. You've qualified for sterile debate what we're doing here, and I give you the reason for once, because it's sterile to be debating with a fence; it's sterile to be debating with a fence that doesn't want to see reality, that refuses to see what's going on in front of your eyes and that you refuse to listen to professionals, those professionals who dare write their complaints, despite the pressures. You know it's not easy for professionals to write down their claims, and yet they put them in writing. You took out here a report from the chief of radiology, and I handed him a letter from the technical nursing professionals and radiologists. Do you know what they say to you – because it seems to me you didn't hear it when I told you before –? "That, as a result of unconsensual decisions, precipitated and probably lack of scientific rigour, we find ourselves at a critical moment in which the radiological facilities of the new Vigo hospital have only 20% of the theoretically allocated technical resources." And they say, "We have informal communication that there is intention to continue the transfer. This fearful decision, if done, would show that in higher instances the functional capacity of the current radiology system at Vigo hospital is completely ignored." I insist, I could keep telling you. And you said, they're installing the equipment. They're actually installing themselves: a truck for resonating. What do you think will happen if there's a polytraumatized thing to do with a magnetic resonance, Mrs. Mosquera? Do you think it can happen and what can be done in that truck? No, I'll tell him. You can't do it in that truck. And you keep insisting that nothing happens, you keep insisting that nothing happens, you keep making deaf ears to the patients, you found that they had no water, you had to go shopping with them, they were going to dialysis, and after dialysis they didn't even give them a snack, they had to go to the coffee shop to buy it. I hear deaf ears over and over again. A totally turned-back performance to the population, and you come here, insistently, saying that it's all right. Look, this company that's responsible for quality control, have you made any reports that can be moved on to these deficiencies detected and cured? Because it would be scandalous if I hadn't made any report on what's going on. Then I would be grateful if you would transfer that report to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u229	I have to tell you that you, the People's Party, are a machine of destruction of public health in our country; it's a business facilitator of friendly companies; a facilitator of which Galician resources go systematically out of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u231	Finished, Madam President. All the problems we are experiencing are the result of your decision to make a private health care and to the service of these companies. I'll tell you again. What else has to happen, Mrs Mosquera, so that you have a minimum of dignity and your resignation? How should they ask for patients, workers and opposition political groups? If I had a little decency, you, at the end of this show, what I had to do is submit your resignation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u232	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u233	Thank you, President. I regret once again that the debate of something as serious as what is happening is ridiculous and leads, by the People's Party, to the entertainment politics and you more. It's entrepreneurship that we saw a few minutes ago in this House. Counselor, we're not comparing photographs sizes, but real data, and there's no 1,465 beds in the new hospital. There are no them! There are no such things. There are 394 beds less than projected. You cut 31.8 % of the initial project from 1,239 to 845. But in addition, they facilitated or rearranged the rest of the hospitals, and in the Mexoneiro we just had 418 to 347. And at Nicolás Peña, which was a hospital that was practically new, we just had 120 to 60. Of having 1,770, supposedly, with the initial project, we went to stay with 1,260. So you're the only one who's done it is to ensure that it continues before the Povervisa business, which costs us 90 million euros a year. You cut the observation beds by 55.5% in the emergency room, and by 25.5% in the emergency room. It's not true they're bigger. They eliminate the one from the hospitals and open one that's smaller than the sum of the two. So you can't come here to twist the data from an area that also has the collapsed hospital emergencies. It's you and your councillor's group of irresponsibles. 25 % less than ICU beds, because we remember that the other ICU service is also removed. Some 45.7 percent less radiology rooms, and despite the fact that you privatize high technology – which you call a technology partner – for 88 million euros, it carries machinery from other hospitals. Tell us why, despite the fact that the new Philips company in the case of radiology, resonance and interventionist, you have to handle this machine, you're taking out several contests to buy radiology machinery. And if you put that strange face on, I find it amazing that you don't know the contests that you publish in the contractor's profile. Besides, they carry absolutely everything, not only the radio equipment; they carry another type of machine and furniture from hospitals, furniture that is already old; they even carry refrigerators that had to be practically pulled because they no longer serve and do not meet the energy criteria. If you don't know, you should spend more time with hospitals in the Galician Health Service. The services you refer to, which you think are not healthy – to me if they are, because a dirty hospital is a hospital with a health problem – were private in the Mexoeiro, but some were public at the General Hospital: the kitchen pins, the kitchen, the laundry, the maintenance. I've already reminded him of what happened before, the protests that occurred and the strikes that occurred, when you decided to privatize them. And how workers will be moved from place to place, because in addition to some they are forced to change their category if they don't want – least option! – to move to private company, the result will be dismissals from several workers who have so far been subrogated to other hospitals. Let's see how they explain that. The parking lot. The subject that the others were no longer there. Well, look, in my house one thing is said: bad for many, consolation of fools, because if you think there aren't enough parking loters in the other centers, it's your responsibility to do them. Those bonuses you give to chronic patients and chronic patients we're going to have to pay them all because the concessionaire won't lose a single euro, so you're not doing anything or solving the problem, don't take us for fools and fools! Those same people you cut your pensions, take their medicines out of the catalogue, who also pay the price of life, make them pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u234	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u235	...to get a treatment. And the workers are once again reminded of their payroll when they have to pay for parking so they can go to work. What about the lockers and the lockers? Isn't it personal that you've invented there? Tell me here why they cut off their functions. What about the nursing staff that did the audiometry? Are you going to deny them here now that there will be no cut in that staff? And of course it's not just EUR 68 million for twenty years, not even with the EVI, but also the EUR 90 million in Povervisa, and it's also the money the company earns for the exploitation of all those services. You have no idea what it's like to work in public health, the satisfaction it produces when there are means and the indignation and impotence it produces when people like you cut it off and don't allow it to be done in condition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Group. Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Santalices, just one question for you. Look, your credibility is reflected in what's happened in the last few weeks in Balearics. After listening to him here for years that the Socialist Party had adopted the same public-private funding system at Palma de Mallorca hospital, now an ex-counsel from Jaume Matas accuses him of arranging his big hospital, as you well know. I mean, lies after lies – and I'm not going to remove the word lie, president; I'm telling him to ask me, calling order and these things. By the way, I find it very interesting that you question the qualifications of my companions, medical and surgical graduates, taking into account their long history of clinical care when they see sick. I think it's extremely interesting. Look, I've got some headlines, Madam Counsellor: Piqué asks for more private management in the works. Private health is taking off with the crisis. This, this kind of thing, is what we're talking about. Action, Cesia, Bridges, etc., I'm not an NGO, Counselor, your goal is to maximize profits. I don't think it's too hard to understand. And when the profit ratio proposed by the company itself will be in 2025 at 8.3% of profits, after taxes, on income, given the context, it's absolutely obscene, because you know that no yield of any value, no furniture or real estate, in the financial or business market gets these benefits. And the bad one, the immoral one, is that it's the health account of Vigo's citizens, as much as you come here and tell us stories that it's a public hospital, because you know perfectly well that the hospital isn't public, the hospital isn't public. I'm not talking about assistance, I'm talking about infrastructure. Do you know why there are so many problems in this transfer and there were so few problems – or so many less problems – in the transfer of Lugo and Santiago? Because Sergas was the only agent involved in the process, and now you have to deal with Action, Cesia, etc. That is the underlying problem of this transfer, absolutely accidental and absolutely indefensible except for you. By the way, Counsellor, I'm still asking you, the data that the hospital manager gave today, that there was an aspergillus in Vigo's hospital, are they true? Because if it's true what you gave today, and how I see it's there...! You can't take the floor, I know you, Madam President, but I hope you recognize that you lied when you said there was no Aspergillus in Vigo's hospital. Because there was or was not, there is no fourth dimension, that this humble deputy knows, Counselor. So I'd like you to tell us what happened. I'd like you to tell us if, really, the social alarm came by a press release from the Socialist Party or came because people were hounded, so simple! And it was like this because there was an absolutely hasty action because the company wants to start charging the cannon as soon as possible. And I didn't hear any other more convincing alternative explanation than this one, either by the president of Galician Union or by the manager of Vigo's health area. No one's on the side, Counselor. And look, speaking of the financing system, you said you were an economist. Can you explain to me why they adopted the system of works contracts instead of a public-private partnership contract? If you want, I'll tell you. Because they avoided the previous evaluation study, which escaped control. And do you also know why they approved at full speed on May 6, 2010 the contract agreement for the award of this work? Because on May 24, a central government rule was in force that limited these types of actions because they clearly undermine the general interest in particular interests, Counsellor, in favour of particular interests! And I insist, we were talking about a tenth of GDP. Don't tell me it wasn't possible to do it for a public funding system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u238	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u239	... taking into account the effort of financial guarantees that they had to do, both with the ICO and with the European Investment Bank, to act shamefully as the trading agents of Actora, which is what they did. If Actiona and the rest of the companies are committed to starting the work, what you had to do was to charge them for the delay, and not to help solve problems for the company that we ended up paying for the beams and the beams, Counselor. The gales, well, the beams and the beams...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u240	End, please, Mr. Losada
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u241	...of the health area of Vigo. So, Counselor, don't tell us stories that know they're not true. And by the way, the service chiefs' forum, which chart is that platform? Maybe it's a half-secret masonic logic. I understand that you, who has a head of service in the family, know him. The hospital professionals... yes, yes, there's no need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u242	Please finish Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u243	...have a head of service in the family, your husband, I think it's a known fact. I don't think I'd discovered nitroglycerin right now. In any case, the professionals at Vigo Hospital don't know it's the service chief's forum. When they get together playing golf, it's a different theme from something that's in an organizational chart in the administration. You who pretend to know the Health Administration very well, you should know. Therefore, Counsellor, do you believe that the CES medical union makes a complaint – absolutely suspicious also of the revolutionary left –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u245	...–Fixed, Madam President – grounded in this totally hasty transfer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group. Give Mr. Santalices a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u247	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I don't insult people. People have all their freedom to go wherever they want. I attack, and I always do, an irresponsible politician who tried to boycott a hospital. And I'll always do it. And you and no one will stop me at that. And I'll keep doing it, I'll tell you; I'll keep doing it. [[Applause]] It has just been said here, by the councillor, that the State General Intervention accounted for around 600 million euros with VAT, which was the cost of the hospital. It's a 2010 date. Who governed in 2010? The Socialist Party. So, sir, let's see if you keep a clear speech about funding. I have to tell you that I'm a doctor, to you that you're a professor of economics, I don't understand anything! See if you're focusing on funding. You're talking about companies based in Madrid. Home!, as far as I know, there's a company... the ORA concession in Vigo I think it has a company based in Madrid, and no one's scared of it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Counselor, for explaining the subject of the inspection, because the Inspection has been despised. The Inspectorate acts at a time when there's a certain controversy among different professionals about the specific case of that patient, and the sample is moved, that shows, but the other samples haven't come out of the Cunqueiro Alvaro. We have to be more responsible. And you put it on a tweeter, which you didn't have to put on. And you spoke here today about heads of service like they play golf. No, the heads of the service are monitoring – as is your obligation – the transfer of the hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you're brave, go over there and tell them. [[Applause]] You have to be brave! Go over there and tell the chiefs of duty all that. [[Mr. Losada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm not critical, I'm not critical. I'm talking to them that I know them all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u248	Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u249	Look, I don't criticize any professionals, and less Mrs. Acuña. I criticise alarm speeches. And you can't come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u250	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u251	Be careful they can kick you out. Easy, easy! [[Laughter]] We are going to have a quiet debate. I speak, and you speak whatever you want, but let me talk to myself. I'm not critical of professionals, and I'm not going to criticize Mrs. Acuña, but on this subject there are people much more authorized than she and I who must speak. So this thing is going to be crazy over there, and we don't go any further. Technology partner, 88 million euros. And it will equip the hospital, as the Galego Health Service is equiping it. Don't tell me they didn't explore models of public-private collaboration, if up to six times they went to Alcira, Valencia! And I'll tell him whose name it was. If you have it in Vigo's corporation, Mr. Cayetano Rodríguez Escudero! But for God's sake! [[Murmurs.]] Who do you want to deny? And they were unable to implement that model of public-private collaboration. Incapacities. And then they came to us with 420 million euros left. Not a weight! And when the president starts building the hospital, terror comes! terror comes because the great myth of the leader Caballero fell. It's coming down. He wasn't the boss. That's right. Chronogram of the hospital. Above all, the safety of the patient recommended by whom he has to do it, by the technicians, who are the ones who know. Look, something very important, very important, you can't say here that you're still doing the transfer despite being the hospital contaminated. I wouldn't say. I wouldn't say that. And here this was said in parliamentary headquarters. He said, and I want to deny it. The hospital will make its transfer, and it will be completed, in the safest way. And one very important thing that hasn't come out in this debate, but that has its importance. If a mayor wanted to collaborate, we'd have a metropolitan transport that would make it easier for people to access the hospital. And even that's wasted. And they had to turn the other municipalities around and create the interurban transport. Maximum! There are up to 20 long-distance transports so that people can access the hospital, and that's not what the Mayor of Vigo did. And to citizens who also come from Ourense, who have to come because this hospital doesn't miss the references, even though you say you're going to lose the references, you don't get the bonus, and they're families who come from Ourense, who're going to have to be there for several days, and you don't make it easy for them. What do you say about it? [[Murmurs.]] Because here in the debate there was nothing about it and it seems to me to be terrible. I celebrate, Counselor, that you have meetings with patient associations and that, if possible, you can check the price of the parking lot. But we also have to make it clear, do you know what the most expensive parking lot there is today in Vigo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u252	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u253	The administration's closest to citizens, the Vigo Town Hall. That's the most expensive parking lot in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, Counsellor, I believe that what we have to do is finish the transfer process to the new hospital, and I guarantee you that, once this is done, the hospital will fly free, which is what it has to do, and not with the interferences that are being programmed to it. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u254	Thank you very much. The Health Counsellor has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. I want to make something very clear. From Junta and from Sergas we guarantee the safety in the process of transferring patients to the new hospital centre Álvaro Cunqueiro; a process designed strictly and adjusted to the decisions of medical professionals, not to decisions of political convenience of any genre. That was our basic premise. The transfer and launch of this great hospital is a question that we have to face as a management matter, not as a sort of partisan battlefield. For our part, we will continue to do what we consider right. We will continue to work together with the professionals, guided by technical criteria, with rigor, effectiveness, security and equity, always thinking of the best alternative for patients. Of course, we really want to make it very clear that many things have been said that are not true. First it was said that the hospital was not going to be built; we built it. After it was said he wasn't going to finance himself; it was financed. Then they said she was small. I know the square meters don't define the hospital, but, of course, if we built 285,000 square meters to not provide services, we're doing the wrong thing! When they saw that it wasn't small either, because it wasn't small, we were thinking that they were going to say then, and they said it wasn't safe, that it wasn't safe! When the chiefs of service say it's safe – yes, the chiefs of service say it's safe – when the chief of preventive service says it's safe, when the controls say it's safe, gentlemen, I think security is guaranteed, and reality is very stubborn. Another thing that needs to be pointed out and that I also want to clarify. Look, you can't do things that after a long time they realize it's not true. We've come to say that it's not 1,360 million euros, that you can't mix things, which is an absolutely false and tortureous figure. You cannot mix the value of the construction with the value of the service delivery for 20 years that you are already lending. And of course it's a public hospital, 100 per cent public. As much as they say, the professionals are the same... you say it's a private hospital, that's what I had on the front line. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not a private hospital! I can say loud and clear: it's not a private hospital, it's a hundred per cent public hospital. Professionals are the same ones that are now providing health care. It was said that he was going to be charged for the chair of patients. You're lying! It's a lie, Mr. Losada, it's a lie. Do not charge for the patient's chair
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u256	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u257	It was said to be charged for the patients' water. It's a lie! It was said that there were no ramps, it was said that the newborns were not going to be bathed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Solla, thank you very much for finding the mouse. We were all thinking that mouse was very lying, and you put it in evidence. Of course, Gaes' technicians won't replace nurses. Special diets will continue to be given as always. And of course no assistance will be lost. Assistance services are going to be a hundred percent public. [[Murmurs.]] It was said that the beds would be reduced. The beds won't be reduced. Of course, the Emergency Service doesn't know how they measure it, because it goes from 3,200 square meters – I repeat, from 3,200 square meters that it has now – to 6,431. This is the difference in square meters between the two current services and the service you have. And of course he's going to have a lab, of course he's going to have a lab -- I've said it before -- with one part in the Cunqueiro Alvaro and another part in the Mexoeiro Hospital for the whole routine, as is being done in every hospital in all of Galicia and all of Spain. Look, I repeat, our first priority is security, and we've done all the necessary evidence to ensure that security. It is the responsibility of the Galician Health Service. And it contrasts with the irresponsibility of some who have come to ask that the hospital be evacuated; some who have said that patients should be evacuated from the hospital. A communiqué that will remain in the memory of this country's political indignity. It's not all about politics, ladies, it's not about politics! That's why we don't agree with certain attitudes. It's not the first time the medical union has filed a complaint with us. And how did you solve the one you posed for the ebola, for the security of the ebola? The judge told him that everything we did was absolutely safe. You saw him ratify the judge, okay? I don't know what you're going to say right now, but of course, that's the way it was. Look, if there's something that's particularly painful to me, it's seeing a clinical history of a patient reflected in a communication medium. I say it and I repeat, it's not all good. Of course, if you have to read a clinical story, line by line, in a medium of communication, as advisor, but especially as a doctor, I am deeply ashamed, and all I can do is ask forgiveness for this patient's family, because, in addition to the irreparable loss of a loved one, they had to read in a medium of communication their clinical history. That's why all I can do is ask my sincerest apologies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Different question is citizenship. All my respect for citizenship. And Vigo's citizenship that knows he's going to have a good hospital, the best hospital in Galicia right now. The Government of Galicia bet on Vigo's health is strong and clear. [[Applause]] If anyone is allowed to assert the opposite without data, it seems to be attempting to confuse the Greeks and the Greeks. I want to end with a message of tranquility for citizenship. Since June and since the Galego Health Service, it is acting with rigour, seriousness and responsibility, ensuring the safety of all patients and all health personnel, and, ultimately, of all Vigo's citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u258	Thank you very much. Yeah? Mr. Losada, I'm talking to your spokesman. What do you think has affected the decoration of your parliamentary group, Mr Méndez Romeo? Please give a voice to Mr. Méndez Romeo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u259	In the appeal of the People's Group's health spokesman.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u260	Sorry, I'm talking to the spokesman of the Socialist Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't appreciate any kind of damage, but if you stay calm, I'll give you a minute to explain. I repeat, I don't know what you heard, but I didn't appreciate any failure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u261	Madam President, I would like to point out the strongest protest in this group by the addressee of the People's Group's Health in relation to people who do not participate in this debate, even some are alien to political life, and whose name has been used with a denigration, with veiled allusions that harm their honorability. Secondly, I would like to remind you that no Member of this House has greater representativeness than the others, and I would also like to remind you that, because of representative democracy, what each of the members of this House claim here is for their knowledge or because they are depositors of information provided by specialists, voters or collaborators, and therefore it is absolutely impossible what has been done here to attempt to disqualify other speakers for their alleged knowledge. He has no more responsibility or professionalism than any of the other voices. I call for those allusions to be withdrawn from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u262	Mr. Santalices, the spokesman of the Socialist Group asks them to withdraw, it seems, allusions that disturbed him or that he understands that they are... excuse me, Mr. Santalices can say whether he wants them to withdraw or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u263	He'll tell me what they are. I've already said that absolute respect for the professionals, and, of course, to talk about such a specific subject as this, the only thing I asked for was prudence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. Mr. Méndez Romeo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u265	So, I have the right to express, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u266	You have no word, Mr. Santalices. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you will record your complaint. I'll look at the Session Diary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a record of his complaint. [[Murmurs.]] We continue with the development of the agenda, returning to the point of motions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of José Luis Méndez Romeu, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of certain measures in the field of local administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u267	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u268	You have the word, to formulate the motion, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that I will not use the name of anyone to turn you into an abusive appeal, either in the context of this debate or into any other. But this group will always complain about any of the members of this House, at least the respect this spokesman tries to have for each of them. Ladies and gentlemen, today, 318 local corporations are normally formed in Galicia. That means there's a plural representation of 3,766 concellers and concellers, and another hundred more in provincial deputies; all of them with a desire to improve the living conditions of their neighbours and neighbours, logically taking into account their own competences and, inescapably, their inappropriate calls. Because the truth is, after all the negative things that the Government of the State has said, and also the Government of Galicia, about local life, the competitive situation remains practically the same as in the past; that is yes, with less resources, and more precariously in many cases. But there's still a lot of shared competences where municipalities and joints coincide in different segments of the same competition, and where more than ever it takes to develop cooperation techniques. I want to stress that in Galicia that path is almost about to be made. The purpose of this motion is to mark some of these areas, the most perpetrators, and to invite most of the House to join, demanding a new way of cooperation with the local authorities in Greece for the benefit of the citizens. Opinion studies indicate that citizens do not know the distribution of competences between administrations, and add – adds this spokesman –: they do not need to know it, but they do fully identify the deficiencies in services. That is why in this motion we want to make clear those matters which belong to the superstructural debate, which are matters of political debate, but which are alien to social sensibilities; and that is why we will not talk about mergers of municipalities or forms of service delivery or models of cooperation. We want to propose four areas today where it is possible to reach agreed positions; areas that are sufficiently documented and where deficiencies have been the subject of multiple debates. It's time to move from the debate of theory to the resolution of theory. First of all, the transport of passengers. We have to reverse the decreasing trend. In Galicia last year, in the year 14, 10 million passengers were lost in public transport. It is necessary to overcome the current administrative vision which is based on the granting of lines – by course, extended until 2019 at least – in conditions strongly challenged by the National Competition Markets Commission, which, in a strong report, considers that the German standard, like other similar communities, can go against Community standards and, in any case, sets severe restrictions on competition in the interests of users. We believe that a transport policy must give satisfaction to three distinct problems: first, it must try to overcome the territorial limits of the municipalities and the artificial division between urban and interurban transport. The new residential reality of leisure and work has caused the dilution of the municipal borders in a diffuse urbanization habitat where hundreds of thousands of people live in the metropolitan crown of the main municipalities. The combined formulas are operating in other points in Spain and Europe, overcoming these restrictions. The U.S. metropolitan transport model does not address substantive issues and limits itself to subsidizing tariffs; a positive measure, of course, but does not respond to current needs, because metropolitan demands go through extending the services and frequencies of urban transport to its area of influence, whether residential, public services or leisure. It is not enough to modify tickets, but it is necessary to act on lines and frequencies, and the inertia of the Union is leading in this field to a high use of private transport; it is, of course, superior to other similar territories. Secondly, it is necessary to provide services to citizens where they need to go, to hospitals, not only in Vigo, unfortunately, where they have just discovered it these days, but also to business polygons, college campuses, large shopping areas or nightlife places, because they are places for people from very large geographic areas who today do not have regular services for travellers, being forced to make connections that involve waste of time and risk of safety at times, as happened with the deletion of the so-called "nightbus". Finally, we need to address the problem of current lines, frequencies and schedules to adapt them to the current user needs, because the ahead extension up to 2019 has not served up to now to move on that path. A second area of action we propose is housing policy, which has decreased by 80% since 2009 from 210 million euros to 41 million euros. The need for public promotion, public promotion housing, continues to exist, but the action of public authorities has been drastically reduced, while demand for housing has been maintained and market prices are rising by 5% in the last year. There's an urgent need to get back on track and develop housing plans with the Town Councils. We propose a third area of action in relation to waste policy. Galicia cannot continue to highlight the low percentages of recycling and use and the high rates of incineration with adverse effects on the environment and also with very high levels of rejection. We believe that it is time to address a new strategy with a greater degree of consensus and respect for Community directives. Finally, we propose to improve local funding. In these years with the Government of Greece, unconditional funding has been reduced by 12%, from 134 to 117 million euros, without other commitments such as the simplification and integration of the finalist grant lines, or the automatic transfer of funds corresponding to the agreed social services plan, permanent demands of the Fegamp and the municipalities. It is more, in the next motion, in the motion we are debating this morning, some further considerations have been introduced on the budgetary needs of the municipalities. I have just outlined four lines of action where inter-administrative cooperation is mandatory and where the dimension of problems does not allow any effective approach other than cooperation. Citizens refuse sterile confrontation between institutions and demand cooperation, without prejudice to the areas of political debate. The Socialist Party today presides over a hundred local corporations in Galicia, almost a third of the total. In his name, we propose to open a new stage aimed at solving the main problems of local Galician life. Without a doubt, the problems I have just announced are not the only ones, there are many others – rural development, demographic crisis, etc. – where they would also meet long-term agreements and strategies. But the four that I have just announced have a universal character, affect all the Greek municipalities in greater or lesser degrees. We believe that at the beginning of this new way of local corporations the political differences that we have expressed here often in the parliamentary debate should not prevent the timely agreements, and less should prevent the promotion of the necessary and indispensable actions for the welfare of citizens or to ensure the economic future of our councils. That's why we want to take advantage of this start of the mandate to invite all groups in the House, with their proposals, with their contributions, this debate, to start a new path together, asking the Government of the Union to be sensitive to these demands and to initiate a real policy of cooperation with the local world that has not existed until now in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u270	For the People's Group, as an amendant, Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u271	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a motion with six proposals, which I understand is your model for local administration, Mr Méndez Romeo. Well, I'll treat you one by one, as soon as I have, and very briefly. On the creation of a metropolitan transport plan, the truth, Mr. Méndez Romeo, is that we consider it not necessary, because there is already a metropolitan transport plan of Galicia that is operating in the areas of the Coruña, Lugo, Ferrol, Santiago and Vigo, and next year it is expected that Ourense's transport plan will also be implemented. You also plan the creation of interinstitutional entities. It is clear that since 2005 public transport promotion policies have been launched in metropolitan areas through the articulation of a collaboration between the Galician Union and the municipalities – the collaboration that you say there was not – of each of the corresponding areas, without either the occasion of the first metropolitan transport plan of 2004 or the so-called new plan designed in 2007-2008, which you know well, and launched in 2010, because it is not estimated that a new instrumental administrative organization would be formed either. The measures that you propose for subsidies in tariffs are being managed by the German Government and the municipalities integrated into the plan, avoiding a superfluous and costly specific administration that you propose. You also put in place specific lines of passenger transportation for business polygons, reference hospitals, campuses, large commercial areas -- well, the truth is, if there isn't a volume of passengers that justifies it, you know that it doesn't seem environmentally acceptable to put in place services that don't reach a minimum number of users and that, therefore, they're justinquinating our environment. You also talk about changing lines, frequencies and times. We believe that it is a mere technique of adapting supply and demand and that it is currently managed through contract modifications or the harmonization of stops and schedules. Just like you're talking about the establishment of other transport grants. Also, the current Metropolitan Transport Plan already assumes important economic reductions in the prices that users must pay, putting metropolitan rates at the same level as urban, even in some cases even cheaper; for example, it is cheaper to travel between the Porriño, the Nigrán or the Round it up to Vigo, than the urban transport itself in the city of Vigo, which we are talking about today so much. In this policy of tariffs established by the Galician Union in collaboration with the municipalities, although you say there is no such collaboration, if there exists, Mr Méndez, because it reaches the Union by 85% of the compensations for these bonuses and the municipalities by 15%. Therefore, I don't know exactly what your proposal is, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Well, on housing policy, the truth is that it is surprising that this party's approach to the express, or super-expressive defiance party, or the party that occupied the mayor's office in Madrid, of Mrs. Carmena, which was the dean judge in Madrid who passed from 1 to 11 judicial commissions, doubling the number of defiances and passing from 18 to 36 defiances a day. That's your social housing story, Mr. Méndez Romeo: while you rule, 300,000 defeats. So we, I'm very sorry, but we can't take classes and we can't copy the model that you managed and that they now want to lead us, maybe, to another model that's completely different from what we're living with. The Council of Galicia, the Government of the People's Party, was the first to set in motion measures to care for the people who are launched from their homes. We have the example of the RehaVita Plan, aimed at families with the most economically disadvantaged, and agreements with financial institutions to paralyze the launch of mortgages, the transfer of 200 empty housing from Sareb, the royal estate program affected by mortgage executions and this year the social rental bonus, a measure that will allow, together with the rest of the programmes put in place, to care for all families facing a threat of rejection for not being able to pay. You're talking about urban waste. I also remind you of the 2010-2020 Urban Waste Management Plan, which reduces waste generation and increases recycling in order to minimize final dumping in controlled deposits, especially those of biodegradable fraction. And this plan gives you a prominent role to local administrations, since they are responsible for being the administration of closer proximity to the population. And I don't have much more time. We tabled an amendment, Mr Méndez Romeo, in which, as you could read, the truth is that in points 4 and 5 we made a proposal to establish with Fegamp a plan for the work of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. We believe it's in the bosom of the Fegamp where these decisions have to be made. And in point 5, in relation to the report of local government experts, we consider it important to address this at the time when the full development of Law 27/2013, of December 27, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration takes place. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez García. Yes, yes, you have the floor. Oh, well, I wouldn't give it to the intercom. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u273	In this motion to subsit the Socialist Group's inquiry into local administration, I would like to remind you that we are coming to the end of Mr Feijó's second government with a legacy of incompetence in political actions for local administration. I already agree with the Socialist Group's motion, which proposes a principle of change in the policies of the Union on local administration. At the June plenary session, Mr. Vice-President, responsible for local government policy, and in that meeting we took stock of the action of the Union, which received from the citizenry an important correction in the local elections of last May. We agree that it is necessary to recriminalize the Welsh Government's disillusionment and non-compliance in the field of local policy, even when the vice president came to review what others have done, while he exposes anecdotal lines of work of his responsibility that do not take account of the economic crisis. Therefore, this Parliament – I think – must demand that the Council fulfil its obligations. Moreover, the vice president talked about cooperation with local authorities while he was doing what the Government has been doing so far as a whole: advertising and propaganda. I therefore agree that this House is demanding the Government of Greece to make concrete and quantified commitments to collaborate with local administrations in the fight against the crisis. I agree with the Socialist Party that local authorities lack economic resources to reactivate policies aimed at ensuring the adequacy of the municipalities in social policies, housing, metropolitan transport or waste treatment, among others. And in addition, I want to point out once again that the municipalities are economically drowned by severe cuts and oligopolitical privatizations that exhaust the opportunities to reactivate the local economy. It is always time to demand that chronic discrimination be combated depending on the color of each municipality; a discrimination that documents with fundamental Xaquín Álvarez Corbacho in his last book Democratic or barbaric education. It is time for Parliament to demand a change in the methods of the old policy of caciquism that exchange favours by vote. In my June intervention, I had already stated that the budgets of the Galician Board to meet the councils since the PP's re-governance in 2009 have decreased both in transfers from the Local Cooperation Fund and in transfers to meet various services. Therefore, I consider it logical that at least the accounts in conditional funding for that year will be recovered. As I reported in the June intervention, in 2012 Feijóo reduced the arrival of the Board in employment policies to only EUR 330,000, and then Rajoy, imitating the Feijóo, cut the transfer to EUR 553.198, from EUR 75 million to some one million in total, at a time of great unemployment and deep economic crisis, of being able to hire more than 7,000 unemployed and unemployed for six months, to be able to contract only 14. At the same time, local employment policy instruments, employment agents and local initiatives have been eliminated. And, following the line of struggle against social exclusion and loss of rights, we must bet on creating a plan to guarantee minimum income managed from the municipalities, a plan to rescue people. Only the municipalities can transparently complement the certification of exclusional circumstances and the great social and labour precariousness, especially in the consideration of dependents. And, given this experience of proximity to general problems, Junta should cooperate with Fegamp in a municipal plan against energy poverty that avoids cutting the supply of homes and a social electricity bond that goes beyond propaganda. Junta is absent in this crisis, something that citizenship no longer forgives them, because we're tired of sensationalism when we check how the living conditions of citizenship have worsened considerably. It must be organized citizenship that responds to the social emergency. I therefore support this non-law proposal because the poor public transport service we have in Galicia deserves a study, especially in respect of what is not road transport, river transport and rail transport. Social housing is clear that it's an emergency. We have a social housing emergency, especially in renting, for young people, and creating jobs so that these young people don't continue to emigrate and to fight and remedy the depopulation of our country. As far as funding from the municipalities is concerned, I've said so. And as for the treatment of garbage, which seems to be done for the People's Party, I think there are two important things missing: one is the formation of the users themselves to know about recycling, which is not done; and then also encouraging recycling, and that can only be done from the municipalities. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u274	For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u275	Thank you, Madam President. When at the end of June, the question that gave rise to this motion that we are debating has been raised essentially related to the relationship between the Council of Galicia and the Councils of our country, both those issues that directly reach the competences that are proper to the councils, and, above all, from the perspective of the Collaboration of the Council of Galicia, those powers that have assumed the Town Councils but which are improper to them, that is, those that assume that they are intended to pay attention to the demands of citizenship, but that legislation does not oblige them to lend them. Today, the author of this initiative decided to focus on several specific issues on which his motion was discussed. Of course, these are very relevant matters that almost any of them would deserve a monographic debate. So I've already announced that the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour. Of course, as far as the first point is concerned, I believe that no one here will escape from the fact that road passenger transport is still one of the major problems we have to deal with in this country. The author refers specifically to the metropolitan areas and, indeed, since the late 1990s that we began to talk about the need for metropolitan transport in the seven major areas of our country, unfortunately, so many years later we have not yet been able to complete this process. But it is no less certain that there is also a large deficit in the transport of passengers in those areas far away from the metropolitan areas, where it is not even a problem of coordination between lines and frequencies, nor a problem of the possibility of costing users, but we are in many cases faced with the direct absence of a public transport service. In this sense, we believe that, in fact, significant progress is being made here, essentially with regard to the revision of the structure of the administrative concessionaires of the lines that we could almost say they exercise a true dictatorship in order to adapt transport to the real needs of users and users. And in that sense, we would also like to see from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group a greater support from the Galician Group to those local authorities who express the desire to establish some kind of measure, either through their own means or through any other instrument, to establish measures that help to vertebrate the territory in the field of transport. Housing policy is also addressed. We fully agree on the second point. And the third point – I've been shortening, for lack of time – refers to a matter so important that it has to do with the competences of the local administration, such as waste management. The author of this initiative speaks of the need to develop a new strategy, and I would add that we should also address the need for the Galician Union to stop boycotting those strategies, those actions, those measures which from the local administration's point of view are intended to move forward, precisely with the objective of what the author of the initiative is talking about, to increase recycling, to increase the reduction and, therefore, to phase out or progressively reduce the fraction of the waste that ends up being incinerated with the resulting improvement of environmental conditions and, of course, with considerable damage to both users and the municipalities themselves. And finally, the issue of local government funding would also deserve an ad hoc initiative on its own. We believe that it is essential that, on the part of the Galician Union, since, in addition to the adoption of the so-called Law on the Sustainability of Local Administration by the State, local administration has been set up in our country, measures are put in place to ensure adequate funding for local administrations to fulfil those functions that are their own, but also with those which it has assumed in practice, even if they are not legally granted. And I also take advantage of it to say, although it is not directly object of this initiative, but it does have to do with this fourth point, which must also overcome the restrictions that through the State's Budget Stability Act if they are imposing on the municipalities, even those that have treasury remnants, which unfortunately these remnants can only be used in concrete and cannot be used to improve the quality of life of people, which is what we should all be all about, or to improve economic conditions or to encourage the economy. We therefore believe that since the Galician Union, an effort should be made on that path so that the State Administration would change that absurd and so fired law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u276	For the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u277	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Méndez, we are going to support this motion by agreeing that it certainly incorporates four debates, five debates, of the utmost depth in this country. What happens is that you at some point incorporate a debate on what must be a central principle in the public administration, such as cooperation between the entities that make it up, in which, without any doubt - will agree with me - the People's Party does not believe it. The People's Party only believes in a kind of client network between municipalities, between provincial deputies, between different autonomys and others when they have the same political colour as theirs. The rest of the administrations, when they are legitimately and democratically occupied by other political organizations, are not only deterred but even drowned by the People's Party. Look if they're so thirsty that in Ferrol, we're all about poisoning people. This was said by a very relevant person of the People's Party, who is the voice of it, and here nothing happened; that is, we poison people. And not only that, is that we have a People's Party that is more concerned about seeing the assistance and non-attendance of new local governments to religious acts that really matter as important issues as legitimate inattentives, because we are in a confedessional state. Therefore, those responsible for municipalities that do not attend these acts are fulfilling the constitutional text. In any case, you are much more concerned about these religious tasks than about the humanitarian reasons we are actually living in that country and the whole of the European Union. And, indeed, we are living in a dramatic situation, as dramatic as they are the municipalities themselves of different colors, is organised citizenship, which is in advance of that function, for example, in the so-called refugee crisis that had, of course, taken the Union of Galicia. But it's the councils of change, and it's those NGOs that are working every day that advance these actions, which I insist must be taken by the powers that hold the Council of Galicia. And indeed this debate is important. As far as public transport is concerned, Mr. Méndez, he knows as I do – I know – the report issued by the University of Vigo, by the professors Santiago Lago and Patricio Sánchez, who actually makes a tremendous assessment of what metropolitan transport is in our country. In fact, we could talk about a failed transport and even a dramatic situation for poor management on the part of the People's Party. We actually talk about a loss of 10 million of them, between 2013 and 2014, but we talked in six years of a loss of 14 million, and we could also talk about those issues that are relevant, and I put, for example, the city of Ferrol, which is affixed to this metropolitan plan, in which the popular party's breaches are flagrant in matters that are relevant, for example, the metropolitan plan. Mr. Feijóo committed himself to that. He told us in 2010 that we were going to incorporate Fever into that metropolitan service; today it doesn't even see it or exist. We were also promised to increase travel; the truth and truth is that the data are demolition in the People's Party debt. So, indeed, this is a fundamental debate if we want to cohesion our country and if we want to do exactly what Mr Méndez urged us to do, that is to cooperate between the different public administrations. There are, indeed, very serious issues, such as the defeat of the People's Party in respect of a fundamental right as housing. Mrs. Prado quoted us here as advertising the initiatives of the People's Party. Mrs. Prado, I don't have time to make an assessment, but the data from that management too are demolitional; therefore, much remains to be done to the People's Party. With regard to Sogama, indeed, relevance, especially for a matter of public health; and it is that this country has to start working and debating to get out of that waste incineration model which, as we know, is highly cancerous and harmful in terms of public health. And finally, central elements such as the crisis or the cuts in the agreed plan or even social policies – I don't have time to give data, but the data of the People's Party are demolishing, despite being the most social government in the world – the truth is that, thanks to the cuts in social matters, the councils of this country saw how preventive programs in family education are extinguished, we also saw how the offices of care for migrant people are missing or also saw how, for example, in municipalities that exceed the unemployment rate above 20 % of those multidisciplinary teams that existed are also extinct because, in fact, the cuts in this concerted plan and the budgeting of the Galician Union were brutal. And by giving data too, because they're interesting, what the People's Party – and I'm also talking about Mariano Rajoy – to each of the citizens and citizens of this country is precisely, in terms of social services, the reason for three euros. And we're going to give a data because, indeed, with regard to the previous year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u278	He doesn't give much more because he's out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u279	... –I'm finished – this year they put the EUR 27 million, what happens is that you don't say users have increased to 1.8 million people; so we're talking about a sad situation in terms of social services. So, Mr Méndez, of course we will support this initiative on these five subjects that you have raised. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u280	To close the debate and stand on the amendment tabled, Mr Méndez Romeo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u281	I would like to thank Mrs Díaz and Mrs Martínez for their favourable vote on behalf of their respective groups. Also to Mrs. Paz, who also made a reflection that I make. If the Government is not in favour of promoting the development of the main needs of the municipalities, at least it does not hinder, because what has happened to the remnants of treasure is a joke and, in addition, at the moment of lack of resources, it is a contradiction. Mrs. Prado, I suppose you are aware of what has happened in the last municipal elections. I'll remind you of some data. Look, there are 57 municipalities in Galicia that we can consider urban areas that are more than 10,000 inhabitants. You now, of these 57, rule in 15, the groups that are in opposition in 34 of them, the Socialist Party, probably because of this ignorance of what is happening in the urban world. How can you speak today about metropolitan transport with rigour? But you don't talk to people? I'll give you an example to make it more plastic: the metropolitan area of the Coruña, four municipalities, 150,000 inhabitants, excluding the capital; they have the university campus five kilometers away, there's no direct transport from those municipalities, they have the big polygons ten kilometers away, there's no transport to them, they have the hospital less distance yet, there's no transportation, there's a transhipment to be done. The situation is the same with regard to the lines of a decade ago, when the phenomenon was completely different, and you vote against doing anything. Tell you there's no demand. Ask the transporters, which is unwilling at the Galician board to change the current scheme of lines and concessions. And if you want to know what happens to the leisure zones, check out the data from the Civil Traffic Guard and the vertigo increase in alcoholemia on weekends because there is no night transport. Everything's about to be done today, Mrs. Prado. And you're talking about housing. But what is your housing policy? Not politics? And you're talking about Madrid. I don't know what's going on in Madrid. What is the policy of promoting public housing in Galicia? Non-existent. Pick up the last data, pick up the year 14, the year 13 and the year 12. That's the reality. And then what we can't do is still make fun of citizens because, if we talk about solid urban waste, one day we'll have to tell citizens with all the cruelty to ridicule they're subjected to. Citizens segregate, with the cooperation and impulse of the municipalities, the organic wastes of inorganics and everything goes to the same place; everything goes to the same oven indistinctly or everything goes to the same dumpster. Do you think that's a sustainable model? Does it make any sense to keep making that separation in origin with the costs you have added so that it will end? You're living in a fiction. And, Mrs Prado, you as a Member should at least have data and not come here to make an amendment like that which I propose, which is absolutely a toast to the sun, lacking all content and which, therefore, we cannot accept in any way. Nothing else. [[Applause]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out in Cunta de Galicia in relation to the impact on the Greek municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants of the application of the current state legislation that suppresses their competences in social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u282	Mrs Gallego Calvar has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u283	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we just had a debate about the services, the powers, the management of the board and the councils, and the spokesperson of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia spoke about that the Government of the Union, at least, does not disturb; that it does not disturb the councils who want to develop policies for citizenship. I would say more, not only that it disturbs, is that in the debate it is absent, as can be verified in the government benches, where there is no representative of this absent government, who continues to care for the tasks that concern Galician citizenship. We bring this motion, which also has to do with the councils, in this case with the councils and social services, after the last interpellation we had in this Parliament in the previous session; an interpellation in which we were unable to achieve any kind of commitment from the Labour and Welfare Adviser on how to rethink several of the issues of the policies that they have been doing in their consulting and which involve greater burden and expense for the people who use social services, for the municipalities, to detriment, in addition, those policies. A motion with four points on which we ask the Government of Galicia, first of all, to dialogue with the councils of all Galicia to consensualize the model of management of social services, and clarify the division of competence, because the Government of Galicia cannot behave today, in 2015, with the creation in this case of the Galician Social Services Agency, in the same way as was envisaged in the law of 2008 for the creation of this Galician Social Services Agency, because then the councils had the competences of the nearby social services, because then it would not pass the Trojan Horse of the Government of Mr. Rajoy by the Central Government to remove to the municipalities less than 20,000 inhabitants the social services competences and leave them only to make reports on social exclusion so that they can decide whether or not to help people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. So, what was legislated in 2008 as a model in which the Galego Welfare Consortium and the Galician Social Services Agency were complemented cannot be converted seven years later, with absolutely limited powers of the municipalities, a substitution of the Agency Consortium, which means an increase of costs for users and for municipalities and also without prior negotiation, without consultation with the municipalities and with unilateral imposition. We had been reporting a few days ago in this Parliament that, in August, the Labour and Wellness Council decided to strike them a new blow to the councils, a new economic blow, because that new agreement that replaces the councils in the services provided by the Galego Benestar Consortium on social services with the new agency, that new agreement that the Council considers to be necessary when the councils have an agreement in many cases at the age of ten – which still takes a long time to finish –, that convention imposed unilaterally, as I say, by the Labour and Welfare Council, which was sent to the municipalities in March this year and that the municipalities, of course, all included, in which the People's Party then ruled there until the municipal elections passed because they did not consider it to be a convention worthy of signing what it said before it increased costs, because it now becomes a threat in writing. The Labour and Wellness Council sends a letter to the councils in August this year, in which it tells them that it is a settlement for the debt they have, for the management in this case of the child schools of 2013, without ever having brought together the joint follow-up committees between the Council and the Labour and Welfare Council, that it was planned for the agreements that they had to meet once every year and in which they had to deal with the differences of criteria that could exist between the Council and the councils according to the costs that they had to bear between them and others, without expecting them to be claiming money to the municipalities that they no longer have the full competences in the field of social services and therefore that in many cases their abilities, their interveners and interveners, secretaries and secretaries are making negative reports that they cannot bear these costs and that they are not providing these services, because they already have the competences of the Council, and with a second derivative, which would be replaced by the use of Gaction. That is, pure blackmail, pure blackmail, without mediating that, yes, no meeting of these joint committees, nor a meeting between the Labour and Welfare Council and the councils, to speak of this matter; with the creation of an agency in which the councils will not be represented as they were in the Consortium, since it is only expected that five representatives – not knowing how they will be chosen – will be on the board of directors in front of all the councils that were enrolled in the Consortium and that were in the general assembly. And without mediating any more sort of negotiation, the Board now intends to demand a settlement to the municipalities, in many cases because of powers they no longer have, if prior negotiation. And if they don't want to enter that new agreement, which costs more for the municipalities, then they don't forgive them the debt they might have. Well, in the face of this situation, what we socialists say is that we cannot act like this, we cannot act with blackmail in front of the municipalities, and that the situation has changed on May 24. Because today the political reality in Galicia City is quite different from before May 24, and therefore the Greek Government has to change its position, and it has to bet on dialogue and cooperation, and it has to bet on clarifying its competences. It can't be this chaos, because who pays for it at the end are the municipalities, and who pays for it at the end are the users. What we therefore ask is that dialogue, that the division of competence be clarified and that the management model be consensually agreed. Because not only have we asked for it, but you've also been asking for it, by the way, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and not only now, after May 24, they've come to ask for it before. It's also betting itself on the reinforcement of social services, restoring all the cuts made in recent years. Just one fact: the concerted plan, the central government's money for the concerted plan for the municipalities has been reduced since Mr. Rajoy's rule, almost 70%. Of course, the German Government has not returned any of these cuts, on the contrary, it has directly applied them to both the users and the municipalities. To rethink, at the third point, the creation of this Galician Social Services Agency in the light of this new competitive framework. We can't continue to give them the responsibility to manage women's information centres, children's schools, day-care centres, residences of older people, residences of persons with disabilities, etc., the municipalities, especially the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, when we tell them they don't have the skills. Because the municipalities have real problems facing this management and payments, since the state officials themselves operating in the municipalities are constantly reporting contrary to the ability to continue to grant these services. We also ask that, in the re-examination of the creation of the Agency, and how it develops, there may be a greater weight of the representation of the municipalities, and that democratic plurality is respected. Because I insist that the five representatives that the municipalities in theory have in the Galician Social Services Agency do not know today how they will be chosen, and therefore the democratic plurality is not guaranteed out of the polls on May 24. And it is assumed – that this is also not able to initiate it from the adviser's commitment to the debate of the interpellation – the commitment that conditions unilaterally are changed by the Greek Government, that is, if it is the Greek Government that decides to extinguish the Consortium and create the Agency when it did not need it, because in the law one could contemplate the two entities – in fact, they were contemplated – if it is the Greek Government that unilaterally decides to make this new model, that it does not charge that increase of costs, if it did, to the municipalities, or to the users, who assumes it. Because what the Greek Government is doing is very easy: saving at the expense of others. I mean, I increase the costs, but who has to pay them are the users and the municipalities, and the Greek Government, in return, cuts into this kind of policy. We understand that these are four minimum commitments, that in the face of the new political situation arising from the results of the May 24 elections, you should assume the Government of Greece, and that if you do not want to assume them, then, as my colleague spokesperson said, that it does not disturb you, it is no longer that you are absent as it is today, but at least it does not disturb and let the municipalities develop those remaining powers, that you are not transferring to the councils the problems that the People's Party has caused with the amendment of the Local Administration Law in the State and also here in Galicia. Because the People's Group will probably think that this reform Mr. Rueda made has arranged something. What I'm telling you is that the only thing he did was to make life more complicated for the municipalities and generate more problems for people who use social services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u284	For the Joint Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u285	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. This motion by the PSdEG, which makes up the question discussed in the previous plenary session on the impact on the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants of the implementation of the current state legislation which suppresses their competences in the field of social services, relies on my favourable vote. The guarantee and municipal autonomy are an inherent necessity to municipalism. The municipalities are the level of proximity par excellence and therefore the most sensitive to the needs of citizenship. The source of institutional legitimization of the municipalities is to meet the needs of their neighbours, as well as to ensure a reasonable quality of life for all citizens. This can only be achieved through an effective articulation of a system for the distribution of competences which is clear, precise and fair, as well as through the configuration of a municipal financing system which can guarantee the exercise of these powers and adequate provision of social services at the local level. The council is a territorial political power, formed by the democratic principle, whose legitimacy and democratic quality is much greater than that of the deputies, conceived by the centralist scheme as the central government's direct delegations – this we know very well in the city of Ourense – to create a complex, client base, inter-administrative plot that destroys the social public sector and privatizes services. Deputies, obsolete and useless, are the real protagonists of the reform of the local administration, which are increasing their powers, implementing their control over the municipalities and constituting themselves as guarantors of the provision of services in the local eido, in this obsessive-compulsive centralist drift to which we have been accustomed. And it's because they even teach them to support the municipalities in training and selecting staff, although I'm very afraid that what they're really going to do is encourage and advise layoffs. The second additional provision of Law 3/2012 allows not to apply collective agreements, agreements and agreements, and replaces collective bargaining with the simple right to information. The law is drawn up from an economic and financial perspective and thus makes it clear in the explanatory statement that the main objective of reform is to reduce the size of the local public sector. Then there is a radical cut in municipal competences and services, especially in education, health and social services, which will become exclusive competence of the Union at standard cost, that cost will be set unilaterally by the Central Administration without taking into account the distinguishing elements of our country: dispersed population, the weight of the rural environment, the rooting of the parishes. This centralist imposition, in addition to affecting the principle of subsidiarity – which can do the closest thing should not do the most distant thing – has important economic and operational consequences for the Union, by leaving without effect the local covenant signed in 2006, which regulates the shared support of the operating costs of municipal health and education centres. And the remarkable network of social centres, day centres, child schools, etc., from the economic perspective of this law, will be invaded by privatized metastasis, with the consequent deterioration of quality in the provision, the deterioration of the working conditions of workers in the sector, when not of dismissals and closures of centres, as it is already happening today. Policies of the People's Party. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u286	For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u287	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We continued in a debate on the management of public services, which began this morning with a proposal for a law on the social initiative, which occupied much of the debate of the day, on the Vigo hospital, and now on the relation of that management of public services in relation to social services in the field of local administration. It must be stressed that it was surprising, and so we have discussed it on repeated occasions, the decision that, through this Law on the rationalization and sustainability of the Administration, what had been done was a restructuring of social services so that Members would have more competence. Interestingly, as Mrs Gallego has already said, it turns out that the councils no longer carry certain competences about social services, simply by evaluating and reporting on situations of social need and immediate attention to people at risk or social exclusion. At the same time that a restructuring of the social services that depend on the Consortium is decided by the Government of Greece, and in which there was – as there is no longer – a direct relationship with all the municipalities that were part of that consortium, and unilaterally apostasized by developing a model of welfare agency in which the municipalities have no kind of voice, although they continue to provide services that at the same time the 2013 Law, which it said, of rationalization and sustainability, eliminates from their competences. Therefore, the municipalities clearly now have, on the one hand, a regulation or a welfare agency that claims them certain budgets and participation in the agency, and at the same time the state law eliminates those powers, with which we are faced with a clear contradiction. And we understand that in this initiative what is essentially required is to reopen a broken dialogue essentially by the Labour and Welfare Council and that the Greek Government feels with the municipalities and at this point agree on how these public services will be managed. Let us take concrete examples. What happens in the field of childhood schools that pay attention from 0 to 3 years? For at this moment these powers, clearly, are powers that must be assumed by the Greek administration, these are powers that must be part of the budgets of the Greek administration; and I would even say more: after an agreement, which has never been implemented, the Council of July 2009 should be the competence of education. For at this moment they are essentially resident in the area of local administrations, and those belonging to the Consortium, with a significant reduction of staff and timetables, which no longer meet the scope of conciliation. And, on the other hand, from the Welfare Agency a greater contribution is being made to maintaining these children's schools from 0 to 3 years old. We can also talk about women's information centres. One of the latest news hanging out with the General Secretariat of Equality itself is the collaboration that exists between the German Government and the municipalities. But these powers, according to the law we're talking about, are no longer the powers of the municipalities themselves, but of the Greek administration. But he gave a press round on September 14th, Vice President Rueda talking about the importance of the municipalities being the managers of these centres and that the Greek administration collaborated with these centers. So we're clearly in a situation that often leads to the precariousness of that job, because the municipalities have no capacity to carry out recruitments in information centres or in children's schools. On the other hand, the Wellness Agency calls for more budgets for the management of those schools or senior centres, day centres. And, on the other hand, the budgets – as has already been explained in the previous intervention – are increasingly reduced in the field of social services. That is why we too, from the Galego Nationalist Block, want to make it clear that we will bring this strange relationship to this Parliament that is currently being developed between the Welfare Agency and the municipalities. We do not understand these unilateral conventions, in addition, as they are well known by the Welfare Agency and the Government of Greece, with legal reports against the local administration's own agreements. Because we cannot, on the one hand, eliminate the powers and, on the other, demand more budgets to the municipalities. It is time to stop, sit down with the municipalities and analyze what is the budgetary situation of the services, and the powers that are of the Galician administration, which exercises the Greek administration as a government and which actually lends those social services. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u288	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u289	Good afternoon to all and to all. It's a shame that this intervention had been delayed for a few minutes, because the air that was breathing with the previous control of the House was supposedly or certainly better for the intervention it had prepared. So I'm going to try to change at the moment, not that we have to watch the usual cuts in the ability of Members who are outside whose government, right? There's a proposal that has a lot to do with a proposal that was also stopped this morning, and it has a lot to do with it because what has happened since the adoption of Law 27/2013 on 27 December has a lot to do with the debate this morning about the intention of the People's Party to leave the public administration to care for social services. In that sense, each of the obstacles to the proper provision of social services means that what is intended is to outsource this service and be the entities of the third sector, if not directly the beneficiaries, the ones that deal with it. And so, since the adoption of that rule, there are many councils that, as almost the only goal of social services, they do it is to derive the people who come to the beneficial entities there to solve serious situations in the immediate future. And it's not necessary to go too far, not even to small municipalities, but it's many that tell users directly that they will be the beneficial entities that solve their problem and not the Public Administration, which must be what was being proposed. So when we talk about rationality and sustainability, what we're talking about is clippings, and in social services it's evidence that these cuts have led to a situation of collapse in most municipal social services. Even the inability to recruit these services means that a lot of reports are collected, which then increase expectations when requesting benefits, for example, such as Risga in this country, which is absolutely regrettable that people who do not have any kind of income continue to wait whole semesters to receive some kind of benefit. So we are faced with a very obvious retreat into the previous service delivery mechanism and where what is simply intended is that in the end even the concept of guilt of the users of these services is incorporated. In this sense even what has happened during this summer in the negotiation of the Agency with regard to new canons councils, new quantities, means to us a mode of extortion, because it's one or you take it or leave it, and you leave it means you have no capacity to provide the service. And this mode of extortion meant in many cases increasing costs in a third of what it already meant. That's, in many municipalities, she's got to stop providing services, because the situation is what it is. In that sense, what we believe we have to do is continue to increase the drift, not only in the transfer of management capacity to the municipalities, but in the provision of the municipalities of these services, but always with sufficient budgetary support from both the Galician Union and the Autonomous Administration as well as the Central Administration, because it is the councils that can provide these services with greater correctness, because that is where people are settled, where they have their activity, and that therefore the councils are the most effective mechanisms to provide social services because they know the reality of each person and therefore they can act. And when it's thought from the Autonomic or Central Administration that these cuts have to do with saving, it's quite the opposite: it's an ideological cut, because there's no such savings. Not providing these city councils services means in many cases that situations get worse and that, therefore, the solution is not only more expensive, but it is much more difficult to retrain the situation of many of the people who attend these services. We are therefore faced with an ideological cut that is delaying the model of the provision of social services of the 21st century to the model of the 19th century, and that the ultimate goal is to use mechanisms that have to do with the quality and mechanisms that have nothing to do with social justice. So we are going to support the initiative, which seems right to me, but we are still on the line that we are debating this morning: the ultimate goal must be to transform social services into social rights and, therefore, these rights are universal and that they do not have to depend on the action of each council on its budgetary capacities to meet a population that – we insist – is now in a situation of poverty for each of our citizens. We therefore support the initiative before us and hope that there will be sensitivity on the part of the majority group to support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u290	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u291	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The motion presented today by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group in this plenary is the same motion that was tabled and debated in plenary in March 2014, the same, and you can check it out. A year and a half after the debate and the vote on that same text that they bring back today, the Socialist Group again rescues that motion. We believe that it is an opportunistic rescue, we understand that it is uniquely and exclusively in the vicinity of the general elections, but of course our parliamentary group is going to take advantage of it to clarify, once again, different issues which are supposed to mean that you, as Members and Members of this House in Greece, should already be quite clear. Because look, the Greek councils are fully qualified to continue to exercise competence in such important areas as social services, equality or employment. And you might ask yourself right now, after listening to the speeches of the various speakers: do you know a German law, the Law of urgent measures derived from the entry into force of the State Law on the Rationalization of Local Administration? Because to me, personally, it seems to me that they know her, but they wanted her to forget about her interventions. Because, thanks to this Law on urgent measures, which was passed on 27 May 2014, a law consensual with Fegamp, with the aim of facilitating the application and interpretation of the Law on Local Reform and ensuring the provision of public services, the Greek law that adapts the state reform to our autonomous legislation clarifies to all municipalities that the competences which have been assigned by the autonomous legislation will continue to provide them, and once again in this Parliament a lie is repeated that the councils of less than 20,000 inhabitants no longer have competence in social services. On the other hand, the Italian law guarantees the continuity of the provision of public services assumed by local authorities. By the way, you voted against this German law. In Galicia they voted against this law which later used in other communities as a basis for drafting a decree that expressly cited the text of the Greek text as a model for that decree. So it seems that for some political groups what does not serve Galicia serves other autonomous communities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there was dialogue with the councils to clarify the competences in social services, to ensure the continuity of the services which were provided by the councils before the entry into force of the reform, and, of course, we bet to continue to maintain quality public services provided by the councils. After all, will we continue to hear from the Socialist Group once again that the reform of the state was to remove powers from the councils of Galicia? Look, you're here accusing the People's Party, the Government of Galician Union, of which they're bothering the municipalities. I'd ask them one thing, please, don't lie to the Town Councils. Town Councils know perfectly well what you've approved in this Welsh House, something you should know. With regard to the Galician Social Services Agency, you know that the creation of this agency was provided for by the Social Services Act of 2008. You know that the incorporation of the Consortium into the Galician Social Services Agency has been approved by most of the city council representatives in the Consortium Assembly. You know that the economic proximity of the municipalities will in no way be superior to the current management agreements. And you know that the municipalities will have voice and vote in the decisions of the Galician Social Services Agency. Knowing all this, we asked ourselves, why do you keep that speech? We, of course, have only one explanation: the proximity of general elections. But that doesn't justify that you're lying to the municipalities throughout Galicia. That's certainly not fair. And I don't think it's fair for the socialist spokesperson to come here now to tell the welfare of the Galician Consortium of Social Services when you were the first to criticize the functioning of the Social Services Consortium. But how things change, Mrs. Gallego! Turns out what wasn't worth before now turns out it's the best thing that could happen to social services in Galicia. Of course, we maintained the same opinion as we did at that time. And, of course, what we ask for is serious and it contains the truth about the reform of Galicia and the adaptation of state legislation to our community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u292	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion. You have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar. Give Mrs. Gallego a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u293	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, thank the opposition groups for their support for this motion and tell Mrs. Rodríguez Arias that probably the crime of the Socialist Party, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, be repeated to us, surely because we try to hear from the German Government and we've been talking about what was going to happen for more than a year and the Greek Government is unable to listen to it. That's why we repeated ourselves in the proposals and that's why we've been asking the Government of Galicia for more than a year that talks with the municipalities and does not unilaterally impose the creation of an agency that, if it did not cost users or the municipalities, I don't understand why you wouldn't be able to vote in favour of that point, because it's not the first time we brought it here and always vote against, and the Labour and Welfare Counsellor was unable to commit himself in the debate of the inquiry that the creation of the Agency would not be more expensive for the municipalities or for the users. By the way, the conventions that the Town Councils have since March this year deny what you just said. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, if those agreements were so good, can you explain to me why no council of the People's Party, governed by the People's Party, before May 24, of May this year, signed these conventions, which – I insist – have the councils since March? Because there was probably a boycott of socialist mayors, even of mayors of the BNG and other political groups, but was there also a boycott of the People's Party? So, something's wrong with those agreements, right? That's why the counselor has to reiterate her request to sign them in August of this year, that's right, now offering a discount of the debt to half to see if that's how any county enters. Look, you're still denying reality. There is a law that has made Mr. Rajoy suppressing the powers of social services to municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Many times they repeat the opposite, it will not become reality. And of course we know Mr. Rueda's Law. Do you know that all the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants are conducting consultations with the Presidency Council and the Labour Council because the national authorities – I insist – make negative reports to mayors and mayors who want to hire people to perform social services or who want to make social expenses, because they are told that the German law does not listen to them, that the state law removes the competences to which it does not have them and that they cannot therefore exercise those powers? The Labour and Welfare Adviser denied it, it is true, in the debate, but there exists; there exists, because we have the documents, because, as you know, we rule in some municipalities. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that the initiative we are presenting today does not require anything more to rethink things, because it obviously changed the competitive landscape since 2008, and what was then the creation of the Consortium but the Agency, which the Agency did not replace the Consortium as now, because now – I insist – the Consortium extended, could well at that time with the powers that the councils had at that time, but today the councils have different competences and therefore the Agency must rethink it. And it's true that the representation that the Town Councils will have in the Agency is much smaller than that they had in the Consortium. You know, you can deny it, but five representatives on the board of directors in front of all those represented in the general meeting, there's a quite important difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u295	And, of course, I don't have time to talk about the cuts, but, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, having cut 70% of the plan agreed with the money coming from the state for the municipalities in the area of social services to me seems to me to be a short enough to begin to rethink this situation and since you say that we are in economic recovery, start...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u296	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u297	...to recover those costs so that people who receive the city council benefits can continue to perceive them. Because what you're doing, they're ending up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u298	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u299	...with that little network of well-being that was woven through the municipalities and that stopped the extreme situation in which many people are in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u300	Well, let's move on to the motion vote. We begin with the vote on the first motion, which is that of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, in which, I understand correctly, Mrs Paz, points 1 and 2 would be the amendment of the People's Group and point 3 would be point 3 of the motion itself. So we'd make two votes. First of all, points 1 and 2, which would be the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for points 1 and 2 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the demands that the Greek Government must make to the central government in relation to the taxation of pensions received abroad by returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u301	We then vote point 3 of the motion. We vote. Vote of point 3 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the demands that the Greek Government must make to the central government in relation to the taxation of pensions received abroad by returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u302	We then voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Méndez Romeo, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the People's Group. We therefore voted on the motion as tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. José Luis Méndez Romeu, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of certain measures in the field of local administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u303	Finally, we voted for Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Gallego Calvar, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the impact on the Greek municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants of the application of the current state legislation that suppresses their competences in social services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u304	We continue with the development of the agenda. We're only going to include, for the knowledge of your lordships, the first of the non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the realization by the German Government of an integral plan for the recovery of the marine resources of the Arousa River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u305	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group was tabled at the initiative of Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u306	Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u307	Good evening again. Alternative Left-Galga brings to the full today an important debate that has to do with the sustainability of 1,500 jobs at least in the Arousa River, in the face of the inaction of a government that is directly attacking the primary sectors of this country. It is no coincidence what happens to the dairy sector and also in the Arousa River that it is the producers of the primary sector who are being mobilized to claim dignity for their work and, above all, attention to the needs of a river that is being historically forgotten by the action of the Government and which, therefore, is in danger of extinction as a laugh and severely wounded and needs forceful interventions to modify this situation. Our initiative, which was registered in April, is not casual on the date or why. At the assemblies that are being held every Friday in the Arousa River multitude, it is clear that the situation to which the sector was led has to do with the inaction of the government group. The inaction, which was already denounced by the collectives, by the creeks in March this year when they asked for a specific plan for the recovery of the Arousa River, was not answered, and even a meeting was not proposed to put the intentions of the council on the table. This meeting was held, after being claimed from the beginning of the year, on July 28th, and at that meeting on July 28th, she didn't even attend the councillor. Therefore, the group of mariners in the Arousa River suggests that they no longer believe in the counsellor's interaction, and therefore a counselor who is rejected as interlocutor by the people in the siege, by the mariners, and also in many cases by the people in the countryside, should rethink this government the need to introduce a new mechanism that allows there to be someone directing that advice that concerns the sectors that are seriously affected. And the situation in the Arousa creek is very serious. It's so serious that 85% of the native Berbecue has disappeared from that stream; it's made 60% of the production of old age; and therefore many people who dedicate themselves to the shellfish in the Arousa River have been caused by multi-millionaire losses. When we're less than a month for the possible opening of free seafood banks, they may not even be able to open it. And this situation, which was reported a year ago, was found with the inaction of the Galician Union, an inaction which says it wasn't because it seems that in August they started doing some recovery work in the banks of the Boido or Cabio, when we all know that for that it might have had some sort of result it would have had to have been done a lot earlier and not just a month before the free shellfish campaign began. So what is claimed in this intervention is that you listen to the sector, which is working together with the sector, that sector that has raised the need for you to be heard to put on the table powerful actions that serve to recover what is the way of life for many of the people in our region. And for this we have to go to the depth of the problem. The first is that Junta has to take seriously the scientific research that lets you know what the reason is why the Arousa stream is seriously affected by that element as Marteilia, which is causing the death of the Berbeecho. It is not to be accepted that since the Autonomous Administration the quantities and resources sufficient for a serious study have not been placed on the table, which enables us to identify why our laugh is being attacked with much more voracity than elsewhere in the country. We have to talk about the full recovery of the river, how they may stop investing the more than 45 million euros committed in a part of the stream for sanitation. We have to talk about how our laugh is poisoning through elements that are alien to it, but which already have a very important presence and are not being investigated by our board. And that's why planning to recover our laugh can't be just a plan to recover the banks. It has to be a plan to recover the set of the stream, of how it is possible that many nutrients are coming from sanitation that does not work in the municipalities or those debuggers that do not work in the half of the municipalities of the river, debuggers that pour directly into the sea almost half of the days they have activity; how it is possible that the impact of the industrial polygons that are in the vicinity of the Ulla River and that have very important companies that no one controls what kind of spills they are doing to our river; the affect that they also have the very works of the high-speed Atlantic axis; how it is possible that no one puts on the table as the new Cathoster viaduct has conditioned the flow of the river and therefore also the physionomy of the river and the situation of the elements that live there, as can be the marine species that are the fruit of exploitation by these people. We are therefore faced with a complex situation, which is not going to be solved with an immediate action, which has to exist already a very complex plan to identify what are the risks that put the laugh in the situation in which it is, a situation of absolute emergency, biological emergency, but also social emergency. Because another of the issues you'll have to ask the Council is that it's going to do when these 1,500 people living in this work are from October without income; that alternative mechanisms are going to be put on the table so that people can have a livelihood and, at least, they can overcome this campaign with the objective that during that time Together start to do something and not keep looking to the other side and that, therefore, you can recover production in future campaigns. We're talking about the fact that about 1,000 boats have been working on that farm, 1,000 boats, not that long. The reality is that last year only half a hundred boats worked on the backs of the Ulla. Of course, what can't continue to happen is that there is inaction by the Administration and that the Council can't even put its maximum responsibility to address what has to be the change already in the situation of our laugh. The laugh that was the world's first laugh at commercially exploiting the Berberecho cannot allow that species to be completely disappeared from the whole of the river today. And this is not an AGE invention, it's not even a proposition from opposition groups. It's a unanimous claim of the more than 1,000 who meet every Friday to discuss this situation and who have no response from the board. At the last assembly it was thought in a very concrete way that, if there were no solutions, they would have to bring the planners to Santiago, just like the milk ones brought the tractors. Because you to the primary sector are just leaving that path, the road to mobilization, because you're ending up with those issues that give personality to our country and give you the ability to survive, like the sea and the agriturismo. In the Arousa River there are those 1,000, over 1,000 sailors who are claiming some kind of action, and today I want to know if by the People's Party, that majority party of the House that keeps the Government, there's on the table some concrete plan, besides pretty words, or saying that everything is fine, if they've made some research plan to know what happens with Marteilia, if they have on the table some research to determine how they're affecting all those nutrients that come in addition to our river; how it's affecting the situation of industrial polygons, the lack of clearance not only of the municipalities of the river, but of those who are on the river; and, above all, how it was affected by the compacting elements that were used in the river viaduct and which are meaning that the bottom of our river and the outlet of the river Ulla. All these issues are above the table, but it is also above the table that the need for you to put on what will be the concrete plan of regeneration of these three free shellfish spaces, if there already exists some mechanism so that people who can come to the free shellfish banks in October will have an alternative of income that will allow them not to fall into indigentity and poverty, which is what you are targeting the sea sector. But we want to go a little beyond the Arousa stream. And we understand that the policy of the People's Party on shellfish issues has to do with the decision that the People's Party has taken, which is to expel the shellfishers from the whole of our laughs. For PP it's very rough tomorrow to put on the table a decree that expels the shellfishers, and what they're doing is to expel them by the way that it's impossible to live from the shellfish. That has an objective, and it is that the People's Party has already decided what it wants for our rivers, and it doesn't want shellfishers, it wants big industries; so it has made two issues that are very important: the first is this aquaculture plan on the coast that says that 100 percent of this country's water sheet is likely to have an aquaculture plant. And secondly, he is opposing the European Committee of the Regions on an initiative to give responsibility for aquaculture to the European Union so that when the European Union takes a decision against seafarers it will say that it was the European Union. And that intention is not even being made by the European Union, it is a decision of the People's Party. Opponent is the Galician Union. It's a real indecency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u308	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u309	You're ending up with our primary sectors, but not because they don't know, not because they're wrong about strategy, but because they have a goal, which is to change how our sea is exploited, to put mariners and fishermen to put there big industries that have to do with the visits, for example, of our leaders to Norway or Japan last year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u310	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u311	Thank you, President. There is a need to implement measures by referring to specific situations, which is what we want with this amendment. So, no one, in the Arousa creek, ignores that the islands made for the pilastries of the viaduct have influenced the currents and have given rise to variations in the streams of the river, so its urgent withdrawal is necessary. As a result of the above, it is clear that the State, as a promoter of works, must compensate the seafarers rather than look elsewhere. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the environmental study carried out on its day. It is clear that the measures to alleviate the lack of captures last year were a fugitive in advance of the Council, which offered no economic solution but a decision that made it bear on the backs of the workers – of those who received it – a stoppage from their contributions. This will not be possible this year, so if the maritime concessions are to be closed, the only palliative solution will be a paid biological stoppage by the Administration. Pollution in the river is of all kinds, so it is necessary for the responsible councils to present before this Parliament the measures taken in relation to sanitation and tell whether they are working and are effective, and at the same time they must report on the pollution of the river Ulla, Umia and its tributaries. Ports of Galicia and Ports of the State cannot be carrying out fillings indiscriminately and unnecessarily, for in large part there are oversized harbour areas or works such as those of Cambados, which are a public wasteland. That is why, as if a sectoral industrial land plan were made, a sectoral plan of port areas is also needed, paralyzing all current fillings and works. Finally, it is necessary to agree on measures with the sector, which was, in turn, already demanding solutions, moving ahead with the solution of the problem agreed with the sector so that it will not happen again last year. All of this is what, still in accordance with the non-law put forward, led me to present the substitution amendment, listing concrete measures which – I think – are minimal. Thus, in the amendment, what we are asking from the amendment, is that the Parliament of Galicia urges the European Parliament of Galicia to join Union to ask the Government of the State, and specifically the Ministry of Development and the autonomous Adif branch, which immediately proceeds the withdrawal of all the islands installed in the completion of the train viaway support pillars on the river River Ulla River in Cattorio, including in the early stages of works cleaning the channel of the river; to assess the environmental impact of the implementation of the infrastructure of the viaduct; to assess the environmental impact of the road infrastructure, which caused a change in the course of the river stream, the seas, in particular in the whole referred to the sedimentation and the accumulation of the sludge in the sky, in the course of the river stream of the sea, and in the accumulation of the watercourses of the Arrouse Sea, and the accumulation of the storm of the sea, in the sky, in accordance with the watercourse of the watercourse of the play of the play of the play of the play of the play of the play of the play of the play of the play of the trade, which was, and the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the sea, and of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the sea, and of the sea, and of the role of the role of the sea, and of the role of the portion of the portion of the portion of the sea, and of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the part of the part of the part of the part of the sea, and of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the part of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the lo and of the sea and of the portion of the portion of the sea, and of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of the portion of Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rhodes Chapel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u313	Good afternoon, ladies. We are facing a demand for screams; there is nothing more to see every Friday the hundreds of sailors who meet in the different municipalities of the Arousa River demanding an urgent solution to this dramatic situation that they are living; a situation that starts from 2010, where captures are falling down, are falling into bites, which took its point of influence in 2012 with the disappearance of the Berbecho by Marteilia and which has had its worst reflections in 2014 and 2015. In 2013, they were the lowest captures and revenues in the last decade. Since 2012 – I said – the Berberecho is gone, which means nothing more and nothing less than 40% of the seafood income and greater pressure on other species such as plum, but also greater use of other permex, other arts, which means that, if there is hunger in the shellfish, that famine is also occurring in the whole of the Arousa River. But in this situation, ladies and gentlemen, the most dramatic and most serious is the lack of support from the German Government, the lack of interaction with it in the face of the demands of the sector. Last year Mrs. Counselor asked for time and patience, which they had during this winter, and, as we all know, early in the year the Ulla Lombs closed hastily. So in April, we presented a similar initiative to these demanding that this was the time to face the situation, the time to listen to the sector; a sector where eight years were needed to make elections in the confrereries. And now that you've managed to renew the kids, it turns out that those who have come out of those democratic elections should not like the Counsellor, so you don't have to pay attention to them, listen to them, and work together to solve the problems. So, now, the fifteen days that the free shellfish is reopened, it turns out we're in exactly the same situation as a year ago. A week before the reports were absolutely unknown to know the state of the free-marish banks; a totally unacceptable situation, so I think it is lawful that we all exaggerate the responsibilities of this situation from doing absolutely nothing since 2012. But also responsibilities in the political sphere, in this House, because you are voting systematically against the proposals brought here by this opposition, such as those that we remember them there in April; proposals that are neither strange nor pilgrims, such as asking for measures against the proliferation of Marteilia in Marteilia, control measures to prevent it from being systematically voting against the proposals being brought here, such as those that we remember them there in April; proposals that are neither strange nor pilgrims, such as asking for measures against the proliferation of Marteilia in Marteilia, control measures to prevent it from happening in our country, in the same way as it has been introduced in our country, going to other rries, as is happening in the Pontevedevededracheo river and Vigo River of Pontevedrara and Vigo River of Vigo River River, which are also having a very strange and strange, there are also, there, and there are also, proposals, such measures, because you have consistently carried out, etc., etc., or measures such measures such as you have said that this country, at last, this country, at last, to have, at last, to have, to have a future, the next next next next next next next to have a plan of producing a plan of production of the banks, which allows the banks to be able to be able to be possible possible possible possible... you can be possible.... you can be made possible. you can be able to be able to be able to make. to be able to make possible. to make possible. to ensure. to ensure.. to ensure. to be able to be possible. to be possible. to be possible. to be possible. to be possible. to be able to make. to ensure. to ensure. to ensure. to ensure. to be able to ensure. to ensure. to be able to ensure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a situation of absolute longing; it is happening exactly the same as it happened last year. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u314	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u315	...we demand urgent measures to be able to cope with this hunger situation that they will encounter in October when they see that the bank is totally crushed. We therefore demand responsibility for not receiving the sector, because this one must recognize that it is the worst time, the worst management, which has been carried out in our country of the Marishcan. Here are the data in the number of permex, the capture data and, above all, the dramatic income data. There are responsibilities, and we must demand their responsibilities, but we must also demand that action be taken immediately through a halt subsidized by mortality or natural causes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u317	...with complementary re-engineering activities so that it has just been published to deal with the situation of biotoxins...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u319	...in what the mussel is. We call for urgent measures immediately and, above all, long-term measures to deal with this dramatic situation that is moving to the river Pontevedra and to the river Vigo. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u320	Socialist Group, Mr. Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u321	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Logically, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative which today presents an alternative left galga, and will do so for different reasons: firstly, because we believe it is time for the Greek Government to face the problems that the Marquean sector is experiencing in Galicia, especially in the Arousa stream, but also, as has already been said here, in others such as Pontevedra and Vigo, and, secondly, because behind this deep problem that the sector has had to deal with the abandonment of both rivers, there are thousands of families, who have been experiencing it really bad for several years. And that's not what we say, the data speaks for itself, and any indicator we can consult will tell us the situation in which the professional people of the seafood find themselves in these two laughs. If we talk about the working days, we'll be able to see how in most cases we're able to reduce even by 60% the number of days proposed for work in the business plans of the days that actually work. If we decide to consult production levels, we can also observe how it has decreased alarmingly in recent years, as well as in income and income levels of seafarers. And we might ask ourselves today what it was or what the Government of Galicia has done since mid-2012, which was when the first alarm of the bad state in which the resources of the free-marish banks of the Arousa River were found. Well, what the Greek Government did, first, was to give up the older, democratically elected bosses in an election, not to receive them, not to listen to their demands, and much less to implement any action that had served to alleviate the losses caused and to return to this situation. Indeed, since the Government of Galicia and also since the People's Group bench we have been told in this House many times that studies are being done to determine the causes of the deaths of bivalves, we are also told that unproductive areas are being regenerated, but reality is quite different, because those affected, unfortunately, are not seeing or having any results with these issues. And despite the fact that also, as has been said here, those affected for over a month now are being concentrated all Friday in a confrerery other than the river – yes, believe me, I have been there and not just a few, there are hundreds of shellfishers who are claiming that on the part of the German Government at once faced the real problem that is suffering from the Arousa River – unfortunately I think there is no life in this Middle Rural and Sea Councillory, there is no life in a council that has been missing months and does not face any of the problems that our fishing sector has, neither in the shellfish or in any other sector, with a completely missing advisor. They are not even able to assume the commitments made at a meeting on February 14th, where only small issues were put on the table to be held in the Marish-free banks, as they were plowed in the substrate, actions against predators and other issues that were on the table and that they were not able to deal with in these last few months. And that's the reality, and that's what the seafood sector is suffering in the Arousa River. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, people can't anymore, they've been in a limited position for almost three years, in a situation where the average annual income is below 5,000 euros, 5,000 euros a year's average income in mariners. I don't know if this looks like a decent salary for people who work daily to bring their income home. You have all the powers transferred in the area of shellfish, Article 27 of the Statute of Self-Government, Mr Balsairo. In case you don't know, I literally read it: "Fishing competence in rivers and other inland waters, and shellfish and aquaculture." I think it's time they face once and for all the reality that's going through the sector. They sit down and talk to them, set up an emergency action plan to carry out in the short term, because that's what they're demanding. And I really hope that today in your intervention you won't come here to tell us from this gallery that you are in solidarity with the sector, that you understand your claims and that you have intervened with a lot of money in the Arousa River. That's what the sector isn't expecting. The sector is waiting for you to say today that you will indeed face the situation, that you will already put in place measures to counter this situation that you are living, because within fifteen days, unfortunately, there will be nothing to be able to waltz in the banks of the Arousa River. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. For the People's Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u323	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start answering... well, I would respond to the amendment by the Joint Group, but I see that the representatives of the Joint Group have already left the whole, so I will not waste my time. Indeed, I can agree with some of the things that were said here, but I cannot match everything that was said here, because I have to say and I have to defend – and you will understand that from something of this we must find out in the majority group of this House – that if anyone has been working these years to reactivate shellfish in our country, for generating wealth and employment, that is the current Government of Galicia, that is the People's Parliamentary Group and that is the People's Party. And not for nothing, but because we all want to keep our wealth in the rivers and areas of Galicia, and there's a firm commitment from the Galician Union for this activity and its future, for returning dynamism to the marine areas that have lost their productive capacity. And of course there's a problem in the German rivers, there's a problem, there's a problem in the German rivers, and there's a serious problem in the German rivers. But if anyone did leave functions in the Welsh laughs, that was the two-party government. I know they don't like it, I know they don't like it, but it was the two-party government. Because no one doubts in our autonomous community that they've been lost four years. And precisely the most responsible – you see that irony – are the ones who now want to teach us lessons about what to do. And of course, yes, that there's also a problem in the Arousa creek, of course there's a problem in the Arousa creek. After the exceptional 2011-2014 campaign, the diseases, as it was said here, the hammer, the laughter, the overexposition, the predators, became the true enemy to fight, by the Union and by the confrereries. Because, as much as he does despite the opposition, Junta and the confreres do go hand in hand in search of a solution to all these problems. Of course, since the People's Parliamentary Group and since the Government of Galicia we have heard and understood – and I repeat that I am well understood: we hear and understand – the concern of the seafarers gathered at the assembly. I repeat, in case there is any doubt: from the Government of Galicia and from the People's Group of Galicia we hear and understand the concerns of seafarers gathered at assemblies. But not to take political advantage of their circumstances, as the opposition does, but to intensify efforts and among all the solutions. That's why we listen to them, because to do this first we have to listen to them, and we'll probably have to explain ourselves better, both the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group. And probably more effective measures should be taken together, probably yes. But what is no longer fair, ladies and gentlemen, and in what we can no longer agree with you, is that if you accuse us of inaction. Because we have made it clear that the problem of hammering is not a political problem, because we have made it clear that the challenge is to clean up our laughs without pause, because we have made it clear that there is a need to reinstate unproductive banks and recover them. And that's why we've been passing from saying to fact, as I'll now try to explain. To move from saying to fact is, for example, to be able to ensure at parliamentary headquarters that the Board has been mobilised since 2009 more than 57 million euros in the sanitation of the Arousa River, with the new EDAR of Corrubedo in Ribeira, with the local sanitation plan on both sides of the river, municipality by municipality, with the hydraulic works initiated in Vilanova de Arousa and on the island, and with the amendment of points of greenery in the municipalities of Boiro and the Poor of Caraminal. And as for microbiological pollution, when this government reaches the Government, of the ten existing areas, there were two closures. From 2013 onwards it was achieved that the entire stretcher in Vilanova had given zone B values, and the improvement allowed the area to be subdivided by Fefignans bag, and so today the tube bank is also zone B. And, of course, all of this is better, of course it's better. Obviously all of this is better and we have to improve, and we're going to make it better. We have an obligation to improve it, as a government and as a group that supports the government's action. The problem there deserves all the attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u324	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u325	And it deserves to multiply the efforts, both of the Government and of the group that supports the Government. But don't be mistaken as an enemy, don't be mistaken as an enemy. We must work together, and, above all, what we must not do is despise the work that has been done so far, as we would have to approve its initiative. Because it seems to you that nothing has been done. I know to you that this data I gave you here will sound Chinese. Not because he didn't know, but because you're the only one who wants at all times is that the data sounds Chinese. You bring your speech to the head in spite of what the People's Party tells you or what the Government tells you, and practically, if you didn't have to talk to citizenship and you didn't have to talk to the rest of the Members, talking to you would be wasting your time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u326	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u327	After the demonstration of education of the People's Party fishing spokesman, who does not respect a legitimate representative of the citizens of Galicia, for well, each one is where he is. And he talks about my speech. Well, I'd ask him to lend me that speech machine that he has, because he has four or five words that he's going to change as he happens, and they both give him to talk about trees, and about fish, and about hammers, give him absolutely the same. All we have to do is add "the majority group of the House" and "we work hard." But "we work a lot" what does that mean? Mr. Balsairo literally said, "We work a lot for the shellfish." Do you know what the average income of the mariners last year in this country was? EUR 354 per month. That's the work of the People's Party, impoverishing the mariners of this country. Do you know what he's talking about when he says we're already asking questions? Well, he talks about that in December the set of confrries in the Arousa River asked him to do something to recover the Lombos and the banks of Cabio and so on. Do you know when they met with them? July 28th. When did they start doing something? In August. When is the campaign supposed to open? In October. It's impossible for us to take this reality seriously. So I like to say there's a problem in the Arousa stream. Yes, we have made it clear that there is a problem in the Arousa River: the leaders of the People's Party, who want to condemn our Marishes to indignity. And it's good enough of bad-paying excuses. I don't know how you do in bars, maybe it's the ones that make you nice, but here's excuses for bad payers. Do you know why you have bad pay excuses? Because it's good to say that it's the fault of the Bipartite – which, by the way, I don't approve the management of the Bipartite. But they ruled for four years! Have you ever ruled in this country? Perhaps you don't remember that you have always ruled the People's Party in this country, because as you were also spokesperson or head of the Socialist Party in Lugo, perhaps you have that temporary lapse that prevents you from realizing that the People's Party has been ruling this country throughout the whole democracy except six children who have stayed in the middle. That's the reality. And you're telling me that they spent 57 million euros on cleaning up the Arousa River. For what? So that the debuggers don't work, so that everything will continue to come as it does, but above all, so that, of these 57 million, 10 are for the studies; 10 million in studies, and then the millions of euros in effect are what they are. But besides, you have very little experience and very little look at how to clean up a laugh. Of course, if when we look at the creek, we're just thinking about healing the neighbouring municipalities and not even doing so... I ask you to understand that it's necessary to heal all those municipalities that are bordering all the rivers that give the Arousa stream. And you could start talking about how many debuggers don't work, or you could start talking about what's going on with the cyanobractories of the reservoirs that give the Arousa stream. Don't those affect the shellfish? Or what about the amount of pesticides that will also give to the Arousa stream? Doesn't that affect you either? What happens is that you don't have any work done to eliminate this issue, because they have a goal: to end the shellfish to install – I insist – large companies, especially from Norway and Japan, in the yellow rivers that expel our sailors. That's the goal of the People's Party. There's no other one!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u328	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Modifying and Modifying the Agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-15-DSPG120.u329	Before suspending the session, I inform your honourable Members that Mr. Beiras, spokesperson for the AGE Parliamentary Group, has requested the adjournment for a further session of Bill No. 38182, which was in point 2. So tomorrow we'll start the LNP by number 5.3 on the agenda. And I would also like to comment that the questions to the President by the Socialist Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative will be dealt with in a cumulative way tomorrow. Good night and we'll get the session up. Thank you very much.
