ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u1	The meeting was resumed with point 6 of questions for the oral reply of the President of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policies that follow the Government of Galicia in relation to the demands of public services of citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u2	To put the question you have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u3	Mr President, a few months ago this group denounced its support for a retrograde amendment to the law on termination of pregnancy. You said here you'd seek a consensus. As always, he's missed the truth. Without consensus, now they want to sacrifice women 16 and 17 years old. Where before there was freedom to inform, except in alleged taxed cases, there will now be absolute dependence on the will of the parents; a remarkable setback of freedoms. Do you know that 90% of 16- and 17-year-old women who interrupt their pregnancy are accompanied by their parents or tutors? It is a relevant example of family integration when it comes to women's freedom. The remaining 10 percent cannot come for ideological, moral, religious, criminal reasons, for misunderstanding of the problem or for their own security in the face of a situation of foreseeable violence. They are families with problems of family disappearance, broken down, with parents in prison, at risk of ill-treatment, with invalidating diseases, with parents openly opposed, or with parents who refuse to meet and accompany their children. Now you propose that 120 new women every year in Galicia depend on the patriarchal criterion to interrupt pregnancy. Inevitably, many of them will abort underground, without legal protection, without qualified assistance, at the risk of their life. There are always those who exploit situations of need. They're women who can marry and authorize, without guardianship, amputations, chemotherapy treatments, horn ties, but they can't interrupt pregnancy. They can work ten hours a day, they have criminal responsibility, they can test, they can drive cyclomotors, but they can't decide about their maternity. You prefer that 120 women may be exploited each year in intolerable conditions of clandestineness and life-threatening rather than defending a rule that has been working for years at full satisfaction; a rule that you have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce the number of abortions that are practiced in Spain year by year also in new women. Are you proud of this change? Do you really think it's an impulse to improve the freedom of these women or are we in the face of unjustified oppression based on the tribute that you have to pay?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia asks me this question which I read textually: "What do you think?, what are your policies?, are you satisfied with the demands of the public services of Galician citizenship?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Your Honor, this is the question that you put at the Speaker's Board and that I have been notified to answer, so allow me to answer to you, as far as the House is concerned. Your Honor, on the public services, this same week – last Monday – we had an opportunity, with Vice President of the Board, the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Prosecutor, to deliver to the citizens of Ourense – of the city and province – a new court building of 18 million euros, with 12,000 square metres, where judges, prosecutors, secretaries and also 200 people of the Administration of Justice, and where 1,000 citizens of Ourense will daily go to this public service. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, we believe that in the matter of justice we have, in these five years of government, invested more than during the previous thirteen years since the transfer of justice to Galicia. [[Applause]] In the field of the Galego Health Service, Your Honor, this same Monday – this same week – we presented the balance of the professionals of Sergas – 36,000 – from 2010 to 2014, and there we believed that in 2015 50% of the Greeks will go to a new hospital, a reformed hospital or a new health center in their area of influence. And in 2016 it will be 70% of the Greeks who will be able to go to a new public hospital, a reformed hospital or a health center in their area of influence. We believe that Sergas professionals conducted 300,000 consultations more than in 2009 and 28,000 surgical interventions more than in 2009, and by the way, there are 90,000 people waiting for less in hospital consultations. Without leaving that same week, in the field of public services, we've drawn for registration nothing more and nothing less than 20,500 public day care squares, 500 squares more than last year, and, by the way, nearly 4,000 squares more than in 2009. You will understand, Your Honor, that these three examples this same week believe that not only during the crisis we were able to maintain public services, but we were able to improve public services. I know, Your Honor, that you are not interested in public services, even though you ask for them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You ask me about a law on which this Parliament has no jurisdiction, and it gives some surprising data, the first one, that 90% of 16-year-olds agree with their parents when they decide on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u6	Go finish, please, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u7	...90%, you just said it. And there's another fact you don't give: that for fourteen years the Spanish Socialist Workers Party prevented minors without their parents' permission to interrupt pregnancy, and that for twenty-five years in Spain all - the Socialist Party and us - we agreed that minors had to apply for permission from their parents... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, if you want to be Mr. Sánchez, it gives me the feeling that you're wrong about the House. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u8	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u9	Thank you, Madam President. For 120 women every year public services are going to be non-existent. You condemn and sacrifice 120 new women every year, simply because you want to make them victims, to satisfy the most cavernary faction in society. That cave that you represent and that you have to offer literally a blood tribute, as in the Middle Ages, to which you have to sacrifice the lives and future of many new women, because you have undertaken unilateral commitments that are not backed up... Mr. Feijóo, pay some attention because I see that this little knows... and they are not supported by the women of this country or by the new people, and they go against, precisely, the trend in Europe. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What would you say, Mr. Feijóo, to those women who receive ill-treatment in their childhood and have nowhere to go, or who have been the object of sexual violence and therefore cannot talk to their parents, or who simply have no family communication, who are doomed to clandestineness and who have to add, unfortunately living in a deformed family, not to be able to make an autonomous decision, and who will be the statistical victims of the political cowardice of the People's Party? It was you, Mr Feijóo, who mentioned here that they were committed to seeking a consensus solution, because you – and that is why I speak to you here – are members of the national leadership of your party. You're making decisions that will lead all these women to marginalization, and it's going to be a sad spectacle to see how dozens of popular women are going to get rid of their speech of equality to get free in the weak among the weak. It will be very sad to see that from now on all clandestine abortions that occur with all the consequences will be your responsibility, that they prefer to have victims before they face and convince that ultra-mountain faction that you depend on. They defend a law that was an advance and do not yield to pressures that are, in addition, absolutely minority.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u10	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u11	Look, Your Honor, this debate is interesting. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to keep talking about Galician public services, because it gives me the feeling that you don't want to talk about what you're asking me. Look, Your Honor, this same year 2015 – it's been fifty days – in addition to delivering a judicial building, in addition to believing that we've been able to do more care activities than ever before and believe that we've been able to create more public day care facilities than ever... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u12	Mrs. Hide, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u13	...this year 2015, besides, in the first 50 days, we decided to extend Sergas' health technology in the biggest contract in the last twenty-five years, 88 million euros of hospital technology. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in addition, in the first 50 days, we started the work of expanding the hospital in Salnés. I know you don't care about that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u14	Mrs. Hold on, second call to order, and you know what the third one means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u15	...but in case you were worried about the question you asked me, I want to tell all the Greeks this year that we're going to extend 2,000 new residential care facilities to the dependents. And besides, Your Honor, we're going to propose an increase of 45% of the employment workshops we're attending next March... [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u16	Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u17	Your Honor, I thought that when they talked to me about public services, for example, they would talk to me about the Lugo hospital, which they're talking about in other places, but they're quiet here, probably because they know that when you made the Lugo hospital building they left it empty and it's working now. When you did the Lugo hospital building there was no hemodynamics room, and now there's a hemodynamics room, when you did it they didn't plan to put on radiotherapy, and now they're buying the accelerator, when they did they didn't plan to put on nuclear medicine, and now they're going to put on nuclear medicine. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Your credibility with public services is zero, very similar to the credibility of the question you have just posed to me. But, Mr. Méndez Romeo, tell you that we will sacrifice 120 girls in Galicia. You mean to tell me that the parents and mothers of those 120 girls are willing to sacrifice their daughters? You want to tell 120 Galician parents that they're irresponsible because they're not willing to authorize their daughters to exercise the right that the law can trust their parents? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, Mr. Méndez Romeo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u18	Mrs. Gallego! I'm sorry, president; I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u19	I'll answer, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u20	I'm sorry, president, I'm sorry. Mrs. Gallego, please. Go on, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has just announced that there are 120 parents and mothers in Galicia who are irresponsible, and that what they want is to condemn their mothers and daughters not to comply with this approach. [[Protests.]] But, Mr. Sánchez... I'm sorry, Mr. Méndez Romeo... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u22	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u23	...this corporation of the Coruña was absolutely anti-abortist. At the Congress of Deputies they voted against the Socialist Party, which they belonged to, and now, ladies and gentlemen, we have discovered that a member of the Anti-Abortist Coruña corporation becomes a member of abortion and free abortion and also of minors. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I believe more in the parents and mothers than in you. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u24	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much. The following questions are collected. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the performance that will be carried out by the Greek Government in the face of the suffering of people who are ill with hepatitis C Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the left galga alternative, on the deadline laid down by the Government of Greece to ensure that new drugs are dispensed to all persons affected by hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u25	Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? So tell me, please, the article that you understand is being violated in the matter of order. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] You know that article 77...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u26	The 155.5.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u27	Excuse me?xdzx
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u28	155.5.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u29	155.5 has nothing to do with it. He says, "When a question has been called urgent, its inclusion on the agenda will require communication to the Galician Council 48 hours in advance..." What does this point have to do with the question we're asking?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u30	In the Rules of Procedure, each parliamentary group has the right to ask the president a question. This results in a specific debate with this parliamentary group. The fact that they accumulate... There is no precedent in this legislation, although on many occasions parliamentary groups have asked questions on the same subject. And, from our point of view, it's an attempt to apply already, and with retroactive effect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u31	That's it, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u32	...the cuts that are intended to impose on the Parliamentary Group of the BNG and AGE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u33	Well, I guess it's about the same... Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u34	Madam President, we want to formalize our most respectful complaint about how to run this House. You're... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u36	Mrs. Prado, calm down. It's denaturalizing the control session, Madam President. This is no longer a question. It denaturalizes it, and it mixes Parliament's own role with the Executive. He's doing what Mr. Feijó says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u37	Mrs. Díaz, I understand your protest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u38	And, of course, our protest. We're going to stay in this plenary about the patients and their families, who want us to ask this question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u40	...but you're in no condition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz, you don't have the floor anymore. Well, it's not the first time questions are accumulated, and you know that. In any case, it is a power of the Presidency of the House, to which the debate is moderated. [[Murmurs.]] So I'm not gonna ask permission... No, no; I'm not going to ask permission, I'm just going to make use of my powers in moderation of debates. [[Interruptions.]] So what I'm asking you is that you ask your question. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Jorquera, Mr. Jorquera, you have the floor to ask your question. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. "Mr. Feijóo, he addressed me to you on behalf of a group of people who are distressed by the certainty of suffering from a deadly disease; people who are fully aware that time runs against us, that our state of health has irrevocably worsened every day. Some people see them dying helpless after months of waiting for treatment that hasn't arrived in time; others take up to a year and two Agonic transplants wait." Is that him, Mr. Feijóo? So begins the open letter sent by the affected to all Members of the People's Group; so does you, Mr Feijóo. The event at the last plenary session was a further demonstration of the insensitivity of his government to the suffering of these people. "We're only left with the right to die," she said desperate a patient after you voted against something as elementary as access to new therapies takes place according to the criteria of medical specialists. All resources that are needed to care for cases of urgent treatment are available and new drug therapy is provided in hospital pharmacies to those patients prescribed by their medical specialists. Because we're, Mr. Feijóo, talking about lives, we're talking about people who are in some cases on death row because they can't access new therapies. And, as one affected said, you can't process applications like work licenses, because we're talking about people, Mr. Feijóo. But today, fortunately, a light was lit at the end of the tunnel. The struggle of the patients, the doctors, of the whole society is beginning to bear fruit. The expert recommendations include the claims that you, to the shame of all, voted against this Parliament. But for now these recommendations for the new strategic plan are just a draft, the central government still has to assume and apply it, communities still have to approve it in the interterritorial council and then put in place the protocols to develop it. That is why today, Mr Feijóo, you have a precious opportunity to correct, and therefore, this time, instead of a question on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, what I am asking you is a request; a request on health, on the lives of the patients. This time it does not remain impassable in the face of the suffering of these people. Put all the means for immediate implementation of the measures recommended by the State plan's own expert commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. You have the floor, to ask your question, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I, on this occasion, will ask you several questions, though I am confined to the central question which I have registered seven days ago for you to come ready today. Questions are easy to answer. The first one, Mr. Feijóo, is: what is the price of human life for the President of the Council of Galicia? What's your value? Mr. Feisé, answer this House. Tell us what, in your opinion, is the price that must have a life. Secondly, Mr. Feijóo, I don't know if you know what happened to Pedro Morales. He died just in the days we discussed in this House two initiatives, one from AGE and one from the Block, in which we urged these drugs to be supplied to the people who need it. Mr. Feijóo, can you tell the Greeks and the Greeks why he died? Can you tell us what happened to him? Can you tell us how many more people have to die so you can access to supply those drugs that aren't here today? Thirdly, Mr Feijóo, I'm going to talk to him about a human being of flesh and bone; I've already spoken to him – and we talked to him in this House and he went out in all the state media – Eugenio Leira. He's a ferret who's seeing us this time. Twice transplanted, she already has cirrhosis. Your drug was approved on February 10th, Mr. Feijóo. The medicine is not available yet. Eugenio Leira, Mr. Feijóo, do you have to die so that he can get his treatment? What are you going to do about Eugenio Leira and all the eugenio lira that are waiting to receive that treatment? A fourth question that is also very easy, Mr. Feijóo, for you to answer us: why did your parliamentary group, led by two Members, Mr. Santalices and Mr. Centeno, lie to the people who met with them, to the sick and their families? They lied when they said that you, the People's Party, were going to vote in favour of the initiatives that were being discussed here. Why did they lie to the citizenry? Mr. Feijóo, one more question: do you share the opinion of the President of this House – and it seems that the People's Party – of having treated patients and their families as criminals when they were expelled in a vile manner from this House, defending their rights, even if they were going to die and have to come here under those conditions so that at last their Members and Members would press the button saying that they were not provided with that treatment? And finally a reflection, Mr. Feijóo: the greatness of men and women of political height is perceived just in difficult times. We are aware that the full past was a difficult time, but you were not up to the presidency of the Galician Union. You were a political coward with your absence, you didn't even have the sensibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u45	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u46	...to be listening here to families and people who are in a very serious situation and who today do not have their treatment. Mr. Feijó, answer us to the central question and these five that we put to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u47	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the two parliamentary groups present an identical question and, therefore, with regard to parliamentary groups, it seems reasonable first to hear what the nuances of the question are in order to be able to make a joint reply, as we did, of course, on another occasion when the two parliamentary groups were asking about the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. I want to tell you, Mr. Jorquera, that the association you are referring to actually presented a letter to this parliamentary group on February 16th – which you referred to – and was challenged by doctors – by the doctor health spokesman and Mr. Miguel Santalices and more Aurelio Núñez – at four days, where the content and scope of what I am now going to try to sum up. Your Honor, the first thing I have to ask – I suppose you, at least, will grant me – is that the concern you have is a concern shared by the majority group, by this government and by the president. I suppose you do accept this approach, and I mean you and your group. Your Honor, in addition to being President of the Union or being part of the Government or the parliamentary group, I am one more Greek; I mean, a more citizen who knows perfectly that there are certain pathologies that have no cure, that there are other pathologies that are cured if they are caught in time, and that there are other rare diseases and diseases unknown that we don't even know how to diagnose them and indeed, much less treat them properly. Therefore, in the face of the current situation, not in Spain, but in the world, what all the health counsellors of Spain and the Spanish minister of health were two issues: first, by unanimity of all autonomous communities – including those where nationalists rule – suggest that it is the criteria of experts based on scientific evidence that decide the treatments – first agreement – and secondly, adopt a national plan to treat, protocol and believe these treatments based on the diseases of these patients. These two criteria are adopted unanimously throughout Spain, and I am convinced that you will think that Catalan and Basque nationalists have a similar sensitivity; I am convinced that socialists will also have a similar sensitivity to ours. And that's why all the health advisors in the national health system have already adopted these two criteria. Secondly, Your Honor, in effect, you're planting one thing for me: if we're going to immediately implement the scientific committee's advice. The answer is that it is immediately for its tranquility and above all for the tranquillity of the patients who may be watching us. Yeah, right away. And we're going to treat each and every patient immediately to signal that committee of experts. So, Your Honor, we are going to act immediately in Galicia in accordance with the criteria for the whole of Spain. I want to calm him down and commit to it. Your Honor, what are we trying to do? What is always done when there is a difficulty that exceeds the criteria of a particular physician, a particular service or a particular hospital, which is to make a national plan and that this is seen by the best scientists and the best doctors in the country. So, will patients who meet the criteria have the medication they need? The answer is yes. And so when we started talking about this in 2012, the Galician Health Service created a commission of experts, which, by the way, are the only ones that decide the treatments. And in that committee of experts, Your Honor, there are eight members: one, who does not vote, who is the secretary; six doctors of the Greek Health System; and one Deputy Director of Pharmacy of Sergas. Therefore, one official and six optional: two specialists in internal medicine dedicated to liver transplantation, one specialist in internal medicine dedicated to infectiousology, two specialists in digestive apparatus dedicated to hepatology and one hospital pharmacist specialized in viral diseases. These are the ones who decide the drugs, Your Honor. I'm sure you'll believe that these doctors are deciding the drugs that the staff needs, that the sick people need. And they don't assume any kind of guideline, first, because there wouldn't be, and second, because if there were any political guideline, these doctors would have given up that commission they've been part of since 2012. And that's why in Galicia we're treating about 1,000 people with drugs that point to the scientific community. And so since 2012 until yesterday, February 23, 975 treatments were accepted, 98% of those requested. And, in relation to new treatments, 98% of the requested treatments were also allowed. Your Honor, as you can see, it's neither Sergas nor Sergas's official nor any doctor dedicated to health policy, it's Galician doctors who decide the treatments of Galician patients. And so, Your Honor, it seems surprising to me that you – I suppose not intentionally – are considered an expert. I am not; of course, Members do not receive, the doctors do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what I say to you as a Member of this House is that I will take all the decisions of doctors, both the National Health System and, of course, those of the Galician Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen, how do I think this is serious enough...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u49	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u50	...I've been going to transfer clearly what I'm concerned about for those affected: that all of the affected Greeks will have treatment according to medical criteria and scientific evidence and that we will immediately take all the decisions of the national plan that are being approved at the Interterritorial Health Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u52	And by the way, Your Honor, I respect another comment from an honourable Member about a person who is awaiting this treatment and who accepts that he has two liver transplants, it is very clear, Your Honor, that the Greeks consider - the Greek doctors - that he was susceptible to liver transplants, and that he was not made one, they made him two...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u53	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u54	If what we're considering, Your Honor, is a morally economical issue, I want to tell you that a liver transplant has a cost in the national health service system much higher than any type of treatment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, if you want to play with liver transplants too, you don't have a heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u55	Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u56	Look, Mr. Feijóo, if you have to thank me because a person who needs it if he does a liver transplant, it's that, of course, something very serious is failing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'd like to believe that here, everyone here, first of all, we're concerned about saving lives, first of all, what we're concerned about is people's health and putting all means to ensure the right to health. But what's the problem, Mr. Feijóo? That your credibility in this issue is the same as you have with the Pemex affair: first you go to Mexico to negotiate the sale of Barriers to Pemex, and now Pemex announces that Barriers is out of work. Wonderful business! But let me remind you of several things: if experts recommend that new drugs be dispensed to patients in Phase II and Phase III, it is because it is not done now, Mr Feijóo; only new drugs are prescribed to the most seriously ill, and, in addition, the Galician Union has established restrictions beyond those established at the state level. If the experts recommend hospital pharmacies to distribute medicines according to strict medical criteria, it is because it is not done now, Mr Feijóo. If Mr Alonso says of the funding we will already solve since the Government, that we are for that, it is because economic criteria are so far in force, Mr Feijóo. You put a price on your lives, set a limit on saving lives, 125 million euros all over the state, when it turns out that only in Galicia there are 40,000 people affected. Look, Mr. Feijóo, you've given up getting alongside the patients, you've preferred not to oppose the central government, and now social pressure, with elections at the doors, makes them celebrate as a triumph the same as you voted against for 15 days ago. Mr. Feijóo, do not play with the sick, fulfill their commitments. He says he's going to put all the means to implement these measures right away, but he's still standing on a subcommittee, when he has to prescribe, Mr. Feijóo, they're the specialist doctors. Concrete will apply these measures, with how much money, with what budgets and how long, because the patients cannot wait, Mr Feijóo, time plays against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u57	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u58	Mr. Feijóo, we now understand the accumulation of the answer: we are afraid to respond, and particularly to this spokesperson – yes, Mr. Feijóo, quiet, calm – but you will have to answer at your own time. Look, Mr. Feijóo, clear questions we also want to ask you. The first question is why our country's health adviser did not rebel against that decision which Mrs Mato then adopted, unilaterally deciding that the price negotiated with the pharmacy would be 25,000 euros, when you know, Mr Feijóo – and, if you do not know, to advise you, as we do – that treatment costs at least every patient 45,000 euros, because you have to be associated with two more. If this is so, Mr. Feijóo, making a quick forecast, there are about 40,000 people affected in Galicia, the 45,000 euro per patient ratio, that is about 1,800 million euros; that is, more than half of the health budget. Mr Feijóo, why did the People's Party preach to the interests of pharmacists? Why is the People's Party, knowing that there is no technological or scientific innovation, that we are dealing with a molecule -- by the way, with a company that has already cheated us with avian influenza, with influenza A and with Tamiflu -- hasn't produced this medicine as a generic? That's what I had to do if I was a state man: defending his country, defending people and not putting yourself in the hands of pharmaceuticals. What you just said is falsehood. I'm going to read the names of the men who are part of this commission upstairs, all of you with very serious conflicts of interest, Mr Feijóo. Look: Agustín Albillos, Alfonso Moreno, Javier Crepo, María Buti, Antonio Andreu. All of them, particularly the latter, Mr. Feijóo, are sponsored by that company called Gilead. Mr. Feijóo, tell us: Why did Pedro Morales die? What's going to happen to the eugenies who don't have treatment yet, who have approved it? Will they change their drug policy and stop doing business for the pharmacy or will they defend the interests of the people of this country? And if you can, if you're not afraid of us, Mr. Feijóo, answer us the Alternative Left-Galga, if you're a brave, as you seem to say there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u60	Mr. Jorquera, cordially, you tell me not to play with patients, and also tell me about Pemex. I don't know if this is the place. If I tell you that the fleets are being made, that the 14 trailers are being harmed by Armon and that the low-densed vessels will be made. Therefore, Your Honor, tranquility over Pemex. [[Applause]] I'm not concerned about Pemex, because he's fulfilling and fulfilling his commitments, much in spite of you. I'm worried about this. That's why, when you tell me that there are drugs to go to the hospitals, Mr. Jorquera, very, very many; all oncoholic drugs are withdrawn from the hospitals. The growth hormone, Your Honor, is authorized by a commission of experts, the growth hormone! What are you talking about? What are you talking about? What are there medicines for hospital use and what do you think they're restricting and don't meet the criteria? Are you going to invent the hospital pharmacy now in the National Health System? But, Mr. Jorquera, look, do you know how much we dedicate the Greeks to HIV patients a year? 35 million euros, and it's 4,000 patients Do you think we're decreasing the pharmacotherapeutic capabilities of the Welsh patients when we dedicate this? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, do you know how much we're dedicated to oncotoxic drugs for blood cancer, leukemia? EUR 78 million per year. Do you think we're wasting resources for the Greek patients? Do you know how much we dedicate, Your Honor, to diabetes? 66 million euros a year. All these figures, the oncotoxic drugs for blood cancer and diabetes, are superior to what the treatment of hepatitis C can cost. What do you want to take?, that is, we're not going to treat for economic issues when we're giving superior treatments for fewer patients... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u62	...with higher health expenses? Your Honor, that's an affair I can't accept. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, now it turns out that in Galicia we are not giving treatment to people. All those who are needed and those who are prescribed by doctors. Everybody! Your Honor, we were the first autonomous community to vaccinate the boys...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u63	Mrs. Prado, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u64	...from the vaccine against pneumococcus – the first autonomous community in Spain – we are the first autonomous community to use the holmium laser for prostate problems – the first community in Spain – and we are the first community in Spain in a new technique for lung cancer – the first community in Spain. And that's why, Your Honor, what are you talking about? I repeat: all the sick... that doctors prescribe to them will have this treatment, with criteria that are indicated throughout Spain, and of course Galicia will be in the head. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate certain issues that I have just heard from the "radical left" theory in Spain. He's talking about multinationals, but, Mrs. Díaz, if you are the legitimate representative of the American multinationals who are trying to pressure all the governments of Europe at this cost of treatment. If you're playing that game to that American multinational, Your Honor! What generic do you mean, the generics that are producing in Andalusia? Can we buy those generics where you rule? Your Honor, do Andalusian patients have a different treatment from the Greek patients – and you were in the Government until they were thrown away? But, Mrs. Díaz, are the patients in Asturias, the president of Asturias, supported by you, giving a different answer to what I'm giving? No, because he's a responsible president and because I suppose the United Left of Asturias is responsible. Unfortunately, Your Honor, I can't say the same thing as you. What I can assure you, Your Honor, is that we voted against the GNP for an obvious reason, because you didn't want to accept that it was the doctors who prescribed it and didn't want to accept that this was the doctor commission that marked the protocols, or the priorities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, the priority is stage IV fibrosis; second, stage III fibrosis, and we will reach fibrosis to stage II. Tell me what you've been doing here in Europe. Tell me one, Your Honor, tell me one, a social democrat included. Is there anyone going to cover hepatitis C patients with this coverage? Is there any state in Europe, Your Honor? Or does it happen that when you rule you look somewhere else and now you're interested in looking forward to it? In that we agreed, Your Honor, to look at the disease in front of you and to seek a solution, regardless of your economic cost. That is what I pledge in this House on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the majority parliamentary group. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has only one criterion, the doctor's criterion, and that doctor's criterion covers, by its bioethical principles and its deontological principles, all the patients in Galicia, according to their pathology, their stage and protocol that is approved. Your Honor, let me simply read a paragraph of one of the best doctors who had the Welsh health system, published in La Voz de Galicia or last Sunday: "It must be taken into account that even with the same diagnosis each patient is different, and therefore the application of a therapy must vary according to each case." Adds: "In the history of modern medicine, there were always expert courts that decided who to treat or how to treat a particular disease" – or Mr. Diz-Lois –. I agree with Mr. Diz-Lois.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u66	Do you think, Mrs. Díaz, that this doctor, Mr. Diz-Lois, is a multinational apparatus? Mrs. Díaz, if you don't have respect to the president, at least you have respect to the doctors in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u67	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u68	What if I can assure you, Mrs. Díaz, is that I'm not going into your disqualifications, I'm used to it. Look, Your Honor, this isn't Venezuela, I can assure you. Here's good health for all, here's no stop for democratic mayors, here's freedom of the press. And, therefore, Your Honor, your Venezuelan paradigm here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u69	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u70	... does not apply, here there will be drugs for all patients; not even in the country you admire there are drugs for mild diseases. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u71	What do you want the word for, Mr. Núñez? Excuse me, what are you alluding to? I just didn't hear... sorry... see, Mrs. Díaz... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] You've got a minute, a minute for... a minute! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Núñez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u72	Sorry, I'll have a minute. I had, indeed, a meeting with Mr. Santalices, with the sick. First of all, they presented a manifesto, so we could hardly say that we were going to vote on it. Secondly, we have to study and discuss the document with the parliamentary group, as it could not be otherwise. And thirdly, he was confirmed an interview with the counsellor. That was the meeting, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez. We're still... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Order matters do not generate debate, Mrs. Díaz. We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals... matters of order do not open debate, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of paralysis in which the works are found in the residence of older people of Caranza, in Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u74	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u75	For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u76	Looks like the important thing's over. Or I don't know if they didn't care either, because, frankly, the answer was rather embarrassing. I was going through it wrong there, on my back, by the sick people of hepatitis C who are listening from their homes this embarrassing answer, playing "and you more" when we're talking about human lives. It's really despicable. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Calm down, it's okay, you go on your own.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u78	Yeah, yeah, I see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u79	Mrs. Solla, don't talk about it and focus on it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u80	On November 7th last year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u81	Quiet, please. You have the word to Mrs. Solla. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, you're about the second call to order. Mrs. Solla, you have the word... Please continue, you've got time to stop. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Solla, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u82	No wonder, after what just happened. Anyway... On November 7, last year my companion Yolanda and I were visiting the residence facilities of older people in Caranza, after a permit from the Wellness Council. During the visit, we were properly attended by the management of the centre and accompanied by representatives and representatives of the workers and workers. By the way, it must be said that from that day on they began to restrict our visits to the centres of the Wellness Council, probably because of the public complaints – via the media – of our group of the deteriorating situation of most of the centres dependent on the Wellness Council – of course the public ones that we let deteriorate. The situation observed is that it was a consequence – we understand in our group – of years of loss in maintenance, of years of deterioration of a center that is forty years old. Of course the residence is old, but it's true that the deterioration is evident that it also results in speeding up the necessary improvements for a long time. And besides, this center is increasingly housing residents with more degrees of dependence and more and more needs. Mosque and Mato, health and well-being advisors, visited the center in July, promising some improvements that residents, workers and workers are still waiting for. All they did was go to the center to take a totally surreal photo, when Mrs. Mato just stepped on almost any of the centers of dependents and of older and minors, almost none of the centers dependent on her Wellness Council. Pure propaganda, when they tell us from the centers and they point out that this lady is not headed, she's not showing interest in practically any of the public centers. And even my partner and I watched as the workers and workers told us we were the first parliamentarians to access the facilities in many years, in many years! We have here a wonderful photo of institutional propaganda and, in the meantime, the center remains in the conditions in which it is. In January 2014 there were works – more than a year ago – for 1.6 million euros; works that were not started until summer with the demolition of the sixth and seventh plants, and therefore with the transfer recognised by the Council of at least 37 residents. Subsequently, the works are paralysed without explanation by any of the Council in August, and it was not until December, until the parliamentary commission – where Alternative Galicia de Left has demanded responsibilities from the Council – which were worthy of giving some kind of explanation. The explanation given from the Council was an unexpected drop in a fraught roof that needed an increase in the credit of the adjury company, and this one said it was unthinkable to do so with the budget proposed by the Council of Galicia. In that committee, the Secretary-General pointed out that it was possible that they might have to re-enter the tender if there was no agreement, as it seems to have happened. Finally, the competition is suspended and the procedure should be started again, as a result of the incompetence of the Welfare Council. As much as they want to shield themselves in the legislation, the reality is that the Board is responsible for, first, proposing a ridiculous budget for the improvements of a fully destroyed center that has forty years of existence, and secondly, for not being able to reach an agreement and to solve administratively the problem raised with the company. The real situation is that those who pay broken dishes, as always, and this incompetence are essentially residents, workers and workers, and the families of the resident people. The situation in the centre is inexhaustible. Outside you can see already how the centre is: paralysed works – a situation that should not really have any public center of the Wellness Council –, illuminated in bad state, as workers and workers tell us, that these ill-stated headlamps cause even electrical cuts when it rains heavily causing the central alarms to jump and that the doors of entry are automatically closed...; a situation of insecurity that, in addition, is accompanied and is especially dangerous when, as we have already reported in December, we have blocked the emergency ladder. And the lady secretary-general what she said was that it was part of the work plan. I don't know what work is blocking the fire escape from a residential center. Of course, it must have been totally planned, leaving this center without an emergency exit. The situation in the center is absolutely unsustainable: holes in the ceilings, like this one. There are quite a few, especially on the plant where people have more dependency needs, and on the walls, wetlands, areas where there is no light, that the only light that there is is is not natural, are lamps, and the worst, the real dangers: there are floors raised like this – here it is not appreciated excessively well –, broken tiles and a obvious danger of falls for the resident people, that many move with walkers, with wheelchairs or that have a reduced or limited mobility. Of course, it's a shame this government has our biggest and our biggest governments in a center that is also public and therefore their responsibility. There are also very serious deficiencies in the electrical equipment, fully obsolete furniture, doors where the beds and shirts don't fit – it's a sum and it's continuous –, difficulties moving the shower boxes, lack of material, lack of space, eat and spend the day in the same rooms... i.e. a situation that I wouldn't want for any of my family, of course; every day of the week, of the month, of the year spending the day in the same rooms. You can't have our older people like that. You should have yourself, or you should have the German Government, enough decency to face this situation. The Government must clarify why it maintains this situation and ceases to hide behind alleged administrative problems, because there are also political responsibilities here. And when we have a situation where there are 8 thousand people waiting for a public residential square and 2 thousand of them in the province of Coruña, this is not a receipt. The residence was very damaged and many of the services, of course, needed great improvements. But now, a year later, not only has the situation improved, but it has even worsened: two closed plants, residents transfers, ceiling holes, etc., all the situation I just described. We therefore call for political responsibilities to be assumed; we ask for security to be guaranteed. You can't have a fire stairway, the only emergency exit from the center, closed. What's going to happen if, unfortunately, an accident happens? You could tell us here, too, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u83	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u84	You can't force older dependent people to live with moisture, with holes, with broken roofs, with upholstered floors; it's inhuman. They have to process and carry out the works with an emergency character. So today we do not ask for administrative clarification, which is what happened in the commission of that month of December, we demand political responsibilities and that the works begin at once. This situation is unsustainable and we must act now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u85	Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u86	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Before I start talking about this, I have to say that I'm always amazed at the President's frivolity when he talks about such sensitive and human issues. I would be delighted – and I would recommend – that you look at yourself to see how your frivolity can affect the people who are suffering from situations, and how it affects the others. The President's frivolity is truly alarming. And I'm going to go into this matter to talk about the precarious situation in which the Majors of Caranza's Residence is, which seriously affects citizens who are in a state of dependence; a constant concern and demand on the part of the social representation and union representation of Ferrol. There is a policy on the part of the Union itself that is aimed at concealing the serious situation with announcements, such as measures that will never be implemented, or preventing citizens from accessing the reported sites to check on site what happens. The first of these attitudes receives the name of propaganda and the second of inability to manage. It can never be prevented from the role of representatives, it can never be prevented from exercising popular sovereignty. There are works interrupted because the technicians realized that the project had to be remodeled because of technical needs that they didn't get to know. The Labour Council said in August that technicians had deadlines until September to deliver the new draft of the project. Today it's still unwritten. They paralyze the works without any kind of justification and, in addition, as far as the sixth and seventh floors, with capacity for 14 residents, are completely paralyzed; with which 28 squares are closed. But also the nursing facility only deals with 9 patients when it has capacity for 30. So we're seeing not only the bad state of residence, but the under-utilization that is being made of it; so we deduce that it is a premeditated under-utilization and that the interaction of jobs implies and leaves without a date the improvement of the system counterfires in the center – something that is important in a residence where people have mobility problems – the accessibility conditions of these people, and the total substitution of an obsolete electrical network that constitutes a real danger of fire. I mean, we have a real bomb there, but it doesn't seem like she's in a hurry to solve this problem. They cause situations reported by social representation, such as the transfer of residents to places over 100 kilometers; with which, they separate them from their families, from their affections, causing serious depression that often reduces their life expectancy. Many people, at this time, who were listed as valid, are beginning to grow the list of dependents. And what is the government dedicated to? –We asked ourselves – to promote the conditions necessary for the creation of quality employment? It seems, in view of unemployment and precariousness, that it does not. Caring for dependents? You can see it's not. Yesterday we talked about what happened to the Doral Residence. To adopt birth promotion policies? In view of the depopulation and low fertility data, it doesn't seem that either. Pay attention to childhood? No, of course not, with the data of child poverty we have in our country. Defending the productive sectors? It seems not, in view of the situation of industry, agriculture and fisheries. Improving the living conditions of unemployed people? Doesn't seem to be either. Care for the health of the Greeks and the Greeks? In view of this, it doesn't seem that either. What does the Government do in addition to advertising and propaganda? I'd like to have you answer at some point. We tabled this amendment to complete the initiative a little by asking for an explanation of the larger ones who have been moved out, to make available the 191 oldest people's squares and to clarify their responsibilities in relation to the delay in this centre and the conditions in which it has been held for so long. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u87	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u88	Thank you, President. After a government control session, of questions to the president, which was really tough for all of us and all of us here, we listened to a spell without humanity. I have to say that because, in addition, we are going to deal with an initiative that also has a lot to do with people, not just with questions, with administrative procedures. I believe that the areas of well-being, of health, of education for this government are areas that remain or that do not want to be present. We hear it and there are the videos, there is the Journal of Sessions of this Parliament, so that history, of course, will judge everyone and what is said in this Parliament. Regarding this initiative, two questions. In fact, the honourable Member has already been exposed to the situation in which he is living in this residence; a residence of over forty years, in need of an integral transformation, which also serves an area that comprises 200,000 people and in which he is the only public residence; with which, it means that there is a smaller ratio than there should be services throughout the territory of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal. The comprehensive reform project of this residence, which meant EUR 5.5 million, approved at the end of 2008, was assumed by the People's Party's 2009 government change, but then in 2013, it was transformed not into an integral reform of these EUR 5.5 million, but into a partial reform of 1.4 million. In May 2013, the honourable Member's instance met with the Secretary-General himself, who would start the work and start with more than one million euros. Indeed, it has been launched – it has been explained – and at this moment the situation is of paralyzing and people in subhuman care conditions in this residence. Of course, we believe that we have to assume political responsibilities, that it is not just a technical issue. The decision to reduce the budget from 5.5 million to 1.4 million is a non-technical decision, but rather a political decision, which means that residence is in this situation. Of course we will support this initiative. Similar motions have been presented from the BNG Municipal Group in the Ferrol Council. We'll continue to demand that this residence meet all the security charges. But there is a reflection that lies at the heart of this initiative and at the heart of the situation in which this residence lives: why is the Government of Greece allowing all public services to deteriorate, particularly the public residences of older people, and is boosting private residences and their concerts? What benefit does it seek and why not bet on the public and let it deteriorate and why bet on the private? I think you know how to answer this question perfectly. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u89	Socialist Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Sestayo Doce.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u90	Thank you, President. First of all, she calls for her support, Madam President, once she has been denied access to the residence of Caranza – which I have already visited on several occasions – when she has been asked to do so – in writing – for the visit of the public centre and she has recalled the previous authorisation 24 hours in advance. The head of the centre banned access to this honourable Member and to two union delegates saying that she had no problem, but that she received instructions from the Council—where there are numerous witnesses—and from the territorial delegation and, therefore, that she could not subject herself to problems with her bosses. He says that, of course, she could happen by it, but, on the part of the Council, no. Therefore, Madam President, I would ask for your support if you are denied access to a public representative to a public centre. Indeed, Caranza's residence was budgeted in the two-party government – this is inheritance – and was paralysed, like everything else, by the People's Party within the Government of Nuñez Feijóo. A residence that does not, of course, obey the priorities of the People's Party, which, as we have seen, when asked about the sick or those affected by hepatitis C, talks about figures, and when it comes to the right to abortion and the right to decide about women, it talks about cement. It is obvious, therefore, that the residence of the Third Age of Caranza is not a priority for the People's Party. But the fact is that Caranza's residence, as it was said today, is a fundamental public center for attention to the most vulnerable and the older people. This residence was, as I have registered – I have registered in the hemerotheque – at least seven times announced by Counsellor Mrs. Beatriz Mato and two by Mr. Feijóo, in addition to other representatives of the People's Party. This residence is one of the thirteen commitments made by the Government of Mr. Feijóo in the 2009 election campaign and of course it remains paralyzed, otherwise we would not be here debating. There are two closed plants, sixth and seventh. On the fifth, the biggest complains of cold, and by the way, the biggest – which we have already denounced in this parliamentary group – even if they were cut off even the dinner menu. We can say that the biggest take at seven or seven and a half o'clock a can of sardines and potatoes cooked – I have to say so because they asked me for more of that residence – and they can't take anything until the next day. Chans that are broken, you can't walk with the walker on the different plants, there are drops, there's cold, there's water and cold in the windows... this is what's happening in the residence of Caranza. Outside, as Mrs Solla has already pointed out, there are headlamps that originate, with the water – it will be that we live in Levante –, short circuits which, at the same time, close the entrances, the entrances of the elders, and the entrance of the center; block the entrances of the center and the exit portal of the residence of Caranza. This is the situation of a public centre, and when the opposition is interested, what is done is – as always, that transparency of the People's Party – to prohibit entry. They don't care if the elders are cared for, if the people who have been spending their entire lives on having an old age in dignified conditions with which they are found are the insensitivity of the Government, who has just given his worst face with the responses of the People's Party, with Mr. Feijóo's responses. This is what's happening in Caranza, ladies and gentlemen, this is what's happening in Ferrol, a land that looks like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u91	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u92	...because, indeed, there is not a single commitment. But when we let the greater cold pass, the greater hunger, the greater insecurity, and the answer is to block the entrance to the public representative, we find ourselves with the worst measures on the right. You'll see how they want to rule this country, gentlemen. I think their insensitivity is infinite. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u93	People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to the Members and to the Members. I think it's fundamental, firstly, to clarify what we're talking about, because, after listening to the voices, it seems that what's happening in Caranza's residence is a plot by the Galician board not to carry out the reform of this residence of older people. And the only thing that's happening with Caranza's residency reform works is that there's a concessionaire company that has breached the adjudication contract, and you know it. Look, what do you do for the German Government? Of course, I don't think it's right to say he's dedicated to taking pictures, because in November 2013 what the Government of Greece did was to adjudicate the procurement file of Caranza's residence works for an amount of more than 1.4 million euros and a 16-month run term. In January 2014, the contract with the adjudicatory company was signed; in March 2014 the works of reform of the residence of Caranza were initiated, in July 2014, when the works were already started, the management of the work informs the Labour and Welfare Council that there are several incidences in the work that motivate a modification of the project; the incidences of which you have timely information, because, in addition, in Commission 5th the general direction came to account to all the Members of that commission of which those incidents were. In August 2014 the works were suspended until the modification of the work was approved, in order to solve those impacts that appeared in the works. In October 2014, the modified project was introduced, which involved an increase in the budget of EUR 116,973 and three months of increase in the period of execution of the work. In November 2014, the adjudicatory company submitted claims to the modified project with a proposal to increase prices, which would involve exceeding the legal limit of 10% of the contract established for the modified projects; i.e. breach of the law. And in December 2014 Council technicians issued a report on the contractor's allegations that the proposed prices are unacceptable and out of the law. So I want to make it clear that the Galician board did what it did was management to reach an agreement for the concessionary company, but you know that it was not possible, and, in view of the failure according to the adjudicatory company, what the Council does is solve the work contract file, which was notified to the contractor, and proceed to the opening of a new procurement procedure. Therefore, you know perfectly well that we are faced with a breach of a contract for the adjudication of the works of the Majors of Caranza's Residence by the concessionary company and that we are not talking about a plot of the board of Galicia so as not to carry out these works. We therefore consider this to be a fundamental issue. We assume point 3 of your initiative, Mrs Solla, to urge the Galician Council to take the appropriate measures to allow for the immediate resumption of the works and their completion in the shortest possible time, because we consider that the fundamental of this initiative is point 3. That is why, if you allow, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of that point. And finally, I will make it clear that the Galician Council here is accused of not giving timely explanations about what is happening in the residence, but, on the other hand, two ladies went up to this stage saying that the Galician Board came to the Commission 5th to explain what was going on in the residence in relation to the works. In addition, the territorial headship has offered, offers and will provide timely information to users, users' families and central workers. And they also say that the Union is banning the entry of women into this centre of older people. I would like to make it clear that the Member of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group and yourself, Mrs Solla, have asked how they had to do it and have visited the centre of Caranza without a problem, yes or no? There is another Member of this Parliament, Mrs Sestayo, who wants to go to the center and call by telephone an hour earlier. You'll understand that's not the procedure... [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u95	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u96	...to get in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u97	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u98	...in a public residence. So, Mrs. Sestayo, if you like, talk to Mrs. Solla and Mrs. Díaz and they can explain how to request a visit to an elder centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u99	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have the word to Mrs. Solla for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u100	Thank you, President. Home!, Member of the People's Party, I don't know if we are now, Alternative Left Glaga, the Government and we have to give us permission to visit public residences. This seems surreal to me! It's not our responsibility to inform another group, it's the government's responsibility to inform that group; that is to say, this is the shut down and let's go. First of all, I want to say that we have no problem accepting the amendment of the Joint Group, among other things because those responsibilities are already being asked for at the initiative, and the answer to these transfers of patients has already been asked in committee. So, we don't have the truth is that the biggest problem. I also want to thank the groups for their support. And, coming back to the People's Party, man!, I don't know, at no time did I speak of any kind of plot. You probably know a lot, but I'd ask you in this case to have had a little height and a little seriousness, because we're talking about older people who are in an absolutely unacceptable situation in a public residence and who were already in this situation unacceptable when a year ago you started this tender, because you had to start a bid for a reform since you arrived at the Government and did not, and at this point the situation is still much worse because of your political responsibility. I said it in my intervention. Too bad they always bring ready interventions! I didn't ask you here to explain dates or administrative procedures. We have political responsibilities because, in addition to the administrative responsibilities that you, as in the committee, want to hide behind, there are political responsibilities, and it is the government's responsibility to have budgeted a poor budget for all the works that were to be done in this centre and it is the responsibility of the Government to reach an agreement and seek the administrative formula so that these works are not paralyzed and one year later the situation is not bad, but worse, and insecurity for residents and for the working people. Therefore, a bit of seriousness, because I have already named in my intervention the appearance. That appearance was given by a question from AGE, and it wasn't until December when the works were paralysed until August. We have political responsibilities. Works have to start now, and I don't know if you'd like to have any family members in this situation: raised floors, risk of fall, risk of fire, no emergency exit... what are you going to do with emergency exits? You have the workers and workers of the Wellness Council in a terrible situation, without rest, and still at the top now also without security in some centers. You should visit more of the Wellness Council centers, which Mrs. Mato doesn't do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u101	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Sestayo Doce asks for the floor.]] You've been in the debate, Mrs. Sestayo; therefore, you have no word. You've been in the debate and you don't have the floor! [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Let's continue with the non-law proposals... [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo! I'll call you in order, please sit down. You have a call to order. Mrs. Sestayo, you have a call to order. Mrs. Sestayo! [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo, either sit down or have a second call to order. Second call to order, and you know what the third one means. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do the favor. We continue with non-law proposals. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo! Mrs. Sestayo! Please sit down. Mrs. Sestayo, if I call you to order for the third time, you'll see. No, that's what you want. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] And Mr. Gallego has a call to order by escort. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to any project to build a waste management and treatment plant in the municipality of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u102	This proposal was tabled by the Group of the People's Party. [[G.P. People of Galicia, through their spokesperson and at the initiative of Mr. Santiago Freire Abeijón, on the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submit to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union not to participate in the promotion of any project for the construction of a waste management and treatment plant in the Pontevedra Town Council which does not have the support of the municipal corporation and/or arouse extensive neighbouring rejection".]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u103	Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u104	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the first word I have written in my speech is the word democracy, and it comes to the word democracy for what we have just lived for. In democracy there are two things that are unforgivable: addiction to speeches and no longer being consistent. For, in waste management, socialists are proud to be transparent and coherent in our speech, so much so that when we govern, a waste management plan from 2007 to 2017, based on the European hierarchy, which we respect in an absolute way. We're in favour of recycling, we advocate composting. We're not in favour of incineration. When the People's Party returned to government in 2008, it developed its own waste management plan 2009-2010-2020, and five years later it is expired, like everything that comes from the People's Party. Socialists understand that we need a change in waste management based on the principles of democracy, transparency and dialogue, in which only the rejection goes to Sogama, and with joint environmental solutions, alternatives and points in technical solutions, and always respecting the European hierarchy of the 2008 Directive. At the end of this expired plan, in 2011, beyond the municipal elections, President Feijóo went to the Irish to speak of a second Sogama in southern Galicia. And that second Sogama comes here, on the Waste Management Plan, on its strategic line number 9, which is called "Planning Plants of the Treatment Plant Network." This plan says it does not fix a specific zoning and closed for primary treatment of the selective organic fraction, leave it in the hands of municipalities or communities, and speaks of eight composting plants for all Galicia, one of them with a capacity of 40,000 tons, with an area of 20,500 square meters, which would correspond to one in the urban waste treatment complex of the south. It's important to keep these three data. In the original modification document of the People's Party Waste Management Plan – this one here – on page 2, regarding this strategic line number 9, in action 9.5, Treatment of the remaining fraction, new energy recovery plant – I repeat, new energy recovery plant – it envisages the construction of a complex of urban waste treatment of the south made up of three plants: a composting, a selection of light packaging and a third of residual fraction treatment, with two lines: a pre-energy recovery packaging selection line – i.e., incineration – while adapting the residue for its combustion – i.e., incineration – and a second energy recovery line: incineration in southern Galicia. This last plant will give treatment – not inventing it here – is a public document – to that remaining fraction that cannot be absorbed by composting. It's not any text, it's the People's Party Waste Management Plan. This idea of a second Sogama in southern Galicia arises or appears to arise in the middle of last year. In fact, as early as 2013, a technique of the Pontevedra Deputy signed an 18-sheet report on composting plants in Galicia, saying that this 40,000-ton plant, 20500 square meters, could be used in the future by the Provincial Residue Treatment and Management Service. And the year 2014 comes, and, in a completely surprising way, the Deputy of Pontevedra – hence, the People's Party – and the Pontevedra Council – therefore, the BNG – sign a protocol of three – three folios – public – because it has been published in the Official Gazette of the Province, which seeks to promote the installation of a joint intermunicipal service for the collection, transport and treatment of household waste and the management of clean spots. Repeat: collection, transport and treatment of household waste throughout the province. And he says that the Deputy and the Pontevedra Town Hall have great interest in the installation of a waste treatment centre with the greatest advances and the greatest environmental guarantees. We ask ourselves: Will this treatment centre be what the Waste Management Plan calls the urban waste treatment complex in the south? The plant to which this protocol refers has a capacity of approximately 34,000 tons. Question: Will that capacity be 34,000 tonnes the same from that composting plant integrated into the urban waste treatment complex in the south? And the protocol collects the obligation of the Pontevedra Council to make it available to the Deputy of Pontevedra the necessary land to implement that plant, as well as the attached buildings that were necessary. We don't know what these attached buildings are going to be necessary, or why, because, of course, the protocol does not. The minimum of acres for that plant will be two, that is 20,000 square meters. They'll have something to do with those 20,000 square meters of the 20 500 square meters of the waste management plan. For the conclusion seems that it may be so, because this year, on January 27, the Environmental Adviser arrived at Pontevedra by giving his blessing to this new plant, which framed – he said – "together with other projects that promote the Government of Greece, such as the expansion of Sogama: energy recovery, combustion, 34,000 tons about 40,000, 20,000 square meters in front of 20500 square meters, waste treatment centre in front of the urban waste treatment complex of the south...". Too many questions that arise as to this pact – we understand it difficult to assume – between the BNG and the People's Party, when the People's Party opposed the composting plant in Morrazo, when the People's Party has a president, who is Mr. Louzán, who is not characterized by being a man – euphemistically – too eco-friendly, since he is a man who has filled Pontevedra province with synthetic grass fields, who has no too much to do with the environment or eco-xism, and especially when this lack of transparency, that darkness of a protocol that has three folios – there are folios! – it is too much to understand democracy. [[Murmurs.]] There are too many coincidences in those data that I come to explain on the one hand and, on the other hand, we already know which are usually – we are used to – the results of the coincidences when the People's Party is in the middle: either the deceptions in the Irish with the jobs, 250 jobs that President Feijóo promised at that time, and this time with that manipulation and vice in the speech, saying that it is a composting plant when it is actually a waste treatment center that will contain an energy recovery line – i.e., an incinerator – and a treatment center that will have several plants; first, a composting plant, with which, in fact, socialists agree, because we are consistent, we are transparent and we have a model for waste management. I'll talk about the amendment at the end. We set up this non-law proposal so that the Government either either abandons or does not participate in this new Southern Sogama that is intended to be installed in Pontevedra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u106	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vilán, it's surprising to hear her mix ecology with artificial grass fields; it's, of course, a curious proposal. I would recommend that you explain it to the users of these artificial grass fields. Moreover, curiously, I would say that this same model applied to him, for example, the former President of the Crown, Mr. Salvador Fernández Moreda, in many municipalities in the province of Coruña, and so are other presidents of the Crown. So I think it has to be a little more congruent when comparing that style. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the local authorities as a mandatory service to collect, transport and treat household waste. We need to have this clear to understand what we are discussing today. These local corporations are legitimized to impose the management system they consider most appropriate. And, Mrs. Vilán, I would tell you not to come here to hold the Galician Board responsible for the location chosen for the installation of this composting plant. It must be borne in mind that, after listening to you, the perception we have is that you, according to the composting model, interpret it in a different way when waste from the village is waste from the capital, and they also interpret this model and have a different perception depending on whether it's a location in the village or a location in the capital. If it is a valid model it will be valid in both cases and if it is an inappropriate model it will be inappropriate in both cases, but it cannot be that when it is settled in a village it is valid and when it is settled in the capital it is not useful. His speech, of course – you spoke of congruence – does not coincide with his actions. And what's true is that Galicia's 2010-2020 Urban Waste Plan sets general selective collection targets and material quality targets. And for that, there are building needs of eight plants and certain infrastructure investments. But what is certain is that this Waste Management Plan avoids establishing a specific zoning and closed for the primary treatment of this fraction, and leaves in the hands of those municipalities or communities that want to initiate this collection the decision from where they should be located, the area of influence and also the ability of the treatment plants necessary to carry out the said treatment. And with this, basically, it is intended to achieve maximum decentralization, especially relevant in the case of the organic fraction, where the distance to the plant should be the minimum possible, while at the same time meeting the criteria of efficiency, proximity and self-sufficiency, so that each area has its own waste treatment facilities. Therefore, the municipalities can count on the support of other higher-ranking administrative areas, as is the case with the Pontevedra Parliament, as regards the technical part, as well as the infrastructure part and also the financing part. And I would tell you, Mrs Vilán, that, on the basis of the previous, the Government of the Union has an obligation to support any initiative for the management of organic waste that contributes to achieving the objectives set out in that Waste Management Plan 2010-2020, and the state and European legislations in this matter also indicate it, including this proposal for the creation of a composting plant in Pontevedra, driven – I repeat, Mrs Vilán – by the Municipal Government of Pontevedra – since its group is part, although there is clearly an important discrepancy in its own Government when choosing the waste management model – along with the Provincial Deputation, which you are doing is contributing to the materialization of this infrastructure. So I would ask you not to move an internal debate from the current bipartisan government of Pontevedra here, and that many of your questions you were asking a moment ago should be answered by the members of the bipartisan government of Pontevedra and perhaps the mayor himself. In addition, I would warn you, Mrs Vilán, of the seriousness of urging the Government of the Union to discriminate against a municipality, in this case Pontevedra, and its citizens in the provision of infrastructure for the provision of a basic service such as waste management. And I would also tell him that he respects municipal autonomy and his decision to do so. But we're aware that those facilities that generate a wide neighborhood rejection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u108	...or that they don't have the municipal corporation's good view because logically they shouldn't prosper, and in that sense our amendment goes. Therefore, Mrs Vilán, we must express the lack of coherence shown by the Socialist Party of Galicia in this regard, since in this House your parliamentary group has presented various initiatives in which this type of treatment and the facilities in which it is used. And today's proposal – I'm sorry to tell you – is only useful to highlight and manifest the confusion and lack of the Socialist Party's model with regard to household waste management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u109	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u110	...as in many other areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u111	Thank you, Mr. Freire. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u112	Well, the creation of a composting plant puts models alternative to incineration on top of the table. With composting it gets compost, which is a good fertilizer; it's an alternative to conventional waste treatment with the objective of reducing environmental drawbacks caused by incineration. It is essential for this process to separate the waste from the source and can also incorporate residues derived from the forest cleaning itself, which would allow us to maintain our mountain and reduce the risk of forest fires. Separation in origin reduces the impact, in addition to the environmental impact, caused by the transport of waste and avoids the use of other artificial fertilizers, often contaminating. The use of compost must ensure a market for the product that helps to cover costs and comply with environmental emissions. So we think it's possible, in addition, to create a value added in the sale of the compost itself, not only in its production. Composting plant is an industry where organic waste is treated with biological treatments under controlled conditions. So we're talking about an industry that deals with garbage, but it's an industry, it's not just about storing garbage or burning it. It has several phases: reception, preparation and mixing; decomposition, which takes between 60 and 70 degrees and lasts four or six weeks; maturation; and post-treatment. And there are also three environmental conditioners that regulate it: oxygen, between 15 and 21%; temperature, between 45 and 65 degrees; and humidity, between 45 and 55%. So it's a controlled and safe process. An effective waste management and treatment system goes through the decentralization and marketing of the waste. You can't keep thinking about centralized trash treatment, because it's not effective. And there practically all the studies on the issues of waste treatment that they recommend is to do selective waste treatment and closer to where it happens. If there were financial approaches to the Union and the State, all municipalities could take action in the waste reduction, improving container systems and selective collection, participating in the management of comarcas and transfer plants, improving the operation and, if appropriate, setting up clean points or opening new clean points, and creating waste management and treatment communities. It can be easier, and it also builds up the population in the separation of garbage. And many municipalities that are doing garbage treatment in an environmentally sustainable way, what they do, in addition to information to citizens, is also sharing among citizens the material needed for every kind of waste, so they can make an effective selection. That's why I'm not going to support this non-law proposition, because it also talks about not creating any, i.e., continuing to centralize the garbage. I don't understand the Socialist Party's proposal, I don't understand it because it says that none in Pontevedra Town Hall – I don't know if it is in other municipalities but not in Pontevedra. I don't know but, of course, I bet on recycling, I bet because the waste treatment is not centralized and I bet because the composting pathway is one of the pathways that are implanted into the future as a much safer measure environmentally. Therefore, my vote will not be favourable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, first of all, wanted to start by saying that as a Welshman I feel very proud of the management that BNG has been doing in Pontevedra Town Hall. And precisely today that's news, because yesterday's prize was collected from the UN given to this city by its model of sustainable urban development. A success of a government surrounded by many neighbors and neighbours. Of course, for us, and I as a Galician because I feel very proud, and as a nationalist, because it demonstrates how nationalism is an alternative for the future of government to the service of the people by applying different policies. I was thinking today's plenary that this must certainly worry a lot about some parties because, as we shall see, they will turn the plenary of the Galician Parliament into a plenary where Pontevedra has a protagonist that is really important, as we will see throughout the session. I also want to say that since the BNG we greet and welcome the Pontevedra Town Hall to put in place alternatives to incineration. And I think this point is very important, because here we were made a reading of the Waste Management Plan as if it were the plan that is being presented in Pontevedra, when it's a composting plant proposal that has developed the municipality itself. By the way, with the support of ecological associations, with the support of neighbouring federations, because it is supposed to apply the current applicable legislation. True, the urban solid waste management plan in Galicia is obsolete. It's obsolete because, among other things, we have a waste legislation that exceeds the forecasts that appear in the plan itself. And in waste legislation, what we're told is that at least 50% by weight of the recyclable fractions have to be used for reuse and recycling. The latest data from Galicia that we have told us that we are at 12%, i.e., that in order to get to 50% you have to start initiatives that allow you to compost. And you can't reach the requirements that are laid down in the law if you don't put in place initiatives that allow you to compost the organic fraction of the garbage. So, I think it would be interesting in this debate that PP and PSOE told us if they're really going to comply with waste legislation or covertly what's being defended here is that Sogama is still the only alternative there is, and therefore covertly defending incineration. I think this would be very important if we all knew about it. So, to me, honestly, I am not surprised that the Socialist Party, which theoretically says it defended composting, comes to this plenary session of Parliament saying that no composting plants are being carried forward. By the way, the location was not proposed by the council, it was proposed unanimously by the mountain community; therefore, it would also be very good if we were made clear and not told things that did not respond to reality. And also that the People's Party has clarified us here, because in recent days we've seen news that there seems to be – you have to say so – almost a war buried within the People's Party, right? On Tuesday, the PP publicly says it does not support the composting plant; today, in this debate it says that the PP will support the compost plant if it gets the support of the corporation and the neighbors. Something that, by the way, you know what you have, because this was voted in the municipal corporation. So it would also be good for the People's Party to clarify to us what its position is, what it stands for, if they're going to vote against what they voted against here in the county, which is really what's at the bottom of it, what the hidden war there is or what the problems they have. In any case, we are not going to support this initiative today, because what the Socialist Party is proposing is that we work together to continue to comply with waste legislation. We understand that some other initiatives we have seen here, which wanted Sogama to manage all the waste in the country, because it seems that you are trapped in this Sogama policy and incineration, as much as you come here to defend another kind of issue. And, of course, we'd also make a call to responsibility, because we're talking about something very important. And it's funny that they want to put stones and traps when there's a municipal entity that's promoting and doing what hasn't been done since Galician Union to comply with what the waste regulations say. Actually, I think today the best thing the Socialist Party could do was to withdraw this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u116	Well, I think the Pontevedra Council is an exemplary council in many of the policies it has developed in these years, which is a council that is far above the average of the municipalities in this country, but I also believe that, like any council, it should be able to question, ask for information and criticize. Obviously, that's what I think. You can't put forward a management, which many people recognize and which in many cases we also assume, but there are also issues that must be met with people who don't think the same way. We will not support this proposal, I will explain it, and our vote will be abstention. We are in favour of starting to decentralise waste treatment in this country, and we are in favour of starting to comply once and for all with European mandates for composting and for carrying out the waste treatment hierarchy. What we understand is certain doubts about the lack of information so far there is – so far, what has been approved is a protocol of three sheets, in which it is said at the first point that we will study the viability of a treatment plant – doubt that we will be generated by: We believe that decentralization should be comarcalization. So when we talk about a provincial treatment plant, we think it's not the way, we think it should go to the county. Perhaps in the project that presents us as a treatment plant for the district of Pontevedra and the municipalities around, it may be. For now there is a doubt that is not answered, and perhaps it is because there is a later phase to be explained. We will support all those treatment plants that mean comarcalization, reduce the displacements of organic waste to the maximum, and that area for us is not the provincial. There are also some unanswered doubts, which are likely to be answered in another phase, which are the urban conditions of the land, the occupation of the plant on the surface of the land. Those are doubts that we have and that will surely solve us. The protocol does reflect that it is a provincial plant that will in principle receive – in principle – waste and waste from twenty municipalities. For us that wouldn't be the ideal model. We're talking about 34,000 tons. It's said that the Town Hall places the land and the Deputy does the work. Well, said all of this, we believe that the proposal is too premature; we believe that these incognites must be revealed in the next steps being taken. We believe that we must ensure that it is consistent with what we've all seen here saying in the opposition: decentralization, strict compliance with the waste treatment hierarchy, sustainability from the reduction of displacements, getting compost. I think, properly designed and under these principles, composting is not a harmful activity. But if we believe that we will be watching, we believe that even in the proposal if we escape a little bit from the scope of what Parliament is, we believe that the Council of Galicia in no case can say that it will not support any treatment plant in Pontevedra, we believe that this is not fortunate. So, if we hope that this project will be defined better, that it will be given information, that we will be given information about the urban conditions of the selected location, that we will be given information about the vocation of being comarcal, whether being provincial or not, etc., etc. And so that's the explanation why we're not going to support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u117	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u118	Thank you, President. I begin with the People's Party and its amendment, which we are not going to accept because, apart from neighboring opposition or the support of the municipal corporation, what we do not accept from the socialists is the defense of a line of incineration, of energy valorization, within a treatment complex, which is what comes from the protocol signed by the People's Party itself and by the BNG. We are really surprised that he is a person, the environmental spokesman, who defends this amendment, from whom he was actually authored, when the candidate for mayor of Pontevedra, who is a Member of this House and who yesterday sent a press release to the media – who went out today on this news – did not have the courage to leave here today and talk about what his proposal is. With regard to what AGE tells us, we actually found that it is not a comarcal plant, not a comarcal plant is projected, a provincial plant is projected. So much so that the Salceda Town Hall of Caselas, which is not a district of Pontevedra, is attached, for example, within these twenty-one municipalities that come into the protocol. With regard to what the BNG tells us and what the Joint Group tells us, I repeat: the socialists advocate for recycling, composting. We're not against composting, we're against incineration in a Galician place that isn't Sogama's own plant; we're against filling Galicia with incinerators. And that's, in strategic line number 9, in the protocol signed by the BNG and the PP, which comes expressly from that protocol, it comes from a provincial waste treatment and management center. By the way, I'm also proud of what Pontevedra Town Hall is like. Indeed, I am not satisfied because there are 9,000 stops in Pontevedra Town Hall, and for something there will be 9,000 stops, but that Pontevedra Town Hall, that model of the Pontevedra Town Hall, is also the work of the socialists. In fact, if it hadn't been for the socialists, there would have been a government of the People's Party for quite a few years. [[Murmurs.]] What I wonder is why the most important federation of neighbouring federations in Pontevedra opposes this composting plant. By the way, I'm also proud of the Canary, which I know personally, because I'm from the people who are right next door. And what surprises me most is that for someone who comes here to complain in this House about the lack of democracy of the People's Party if you tell me personally, and for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have to withdraw an initiative, when we at no time ask any parliamentary group to withdraw their initiatives, because we respect the autonomy of each parliamentary group and, of course, respect democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the suspension of the project called Autovía A-57. Tramo: Vilaboa-A Hermida
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u120	Next proposal by the Alternative Gaga de Left, on the demand by the German Government to the central government for the suspension of the project called "Autovia A-57. Tramo: Vilaboa-A Hermida." This motion for a non-law has tabled two amendments: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u121	Mr Sánchez has the floor for the defence of this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u122	Well, there's an error in the GNP statement, it's A-57. This is a non-law proposal consistent with the speech that we've seen in this legislation on bubbles and waste in infrastructures of doubtful general interest. So we defend it when we spoke about the variant of Portsin, where we wanted to spend 40 million euros on a circle in a core of 600 inhabitants; so we defend it in projects like A-76, and so we're going to defend it today. On 24 December the Council of Ministers authorized the conclusion of the A-57 motorway works contract in the Vilaboa-A Ermida tranche. This is the first stretch of the future highway A-57, which is said to be the great alternative of great capacity to the road N-550 in Pontevedra. It is also said that together with the sections of the Ermida Pillars and Pillars-Barro, and connection to the AP-9 in Curro, will constitute the future circle of Pontevedra. The 6.48-kilometre tendering budget is EUR 86.31 million, to which expropriations and minor contracts will have to be added. The works will be carried out in the metropolitan area of Pontevedra, along the municipalities of Pontevedra and Vilaboa, highlighting their passage through the nuclei of Hermida, Pintos, Valadares, Pumarino, Bertola and the Hill. It's a stretch of a larger project that should become a 64-kilometre highway, which will cost, if it takes place, more than one billion euros: A-57, which is sold to us as an alternative to the AP-9 motorway. What we're not told from the Ministry of Development is the social and environmental cost of building this motorway. He will divide into two towns like Pintos or Marcón's, where the neighbors will meet with blacks up to 60 meters, the equivalent of a 17-story building, which will prevent him from communicating with the house just in front. It will have a huge landscape impact, it will have an impact on the huge natural habitat. And we believe that, above all, it questions the continuity of a model that for us is part of the past, a wasteful and unsustainable model. We are not told, nor is there any analysis of the fact that the AP-9, the highway that aims to replace A-57, has been losing traffic for six years, with which we are in danger of rescuing this highway with public money. Dealers in this country in the end never lose, they have more or less traffic. The Galician Economic Forum has just published a study of economic proposals. And among the measures included is the need to carry out a rigorous cost-benefit study for infrastructures that exceed the five million budget. Obviously, when this proposal is made, it's because they come to the conclusion that the recent past is full of infrastructures that have assumed a waste that destroys social well-being. A waste that wastes social well-being because it prioritizes the construction of these infrastructures against spending in other areas, which we believe more appropriate for these times. Each infrastructure must do a cost-benefit study, also studying the cost of opportunity. I mean, a participatory process and debate about why we spent 100 million on a bus and didn't spend, for example, 100 million on nearby trains between Vigo-Pontevedra or Ferrol-A Coruña. How can we continue to talk about millionaire bus projects in this country when we don't have nearby trains that would cost a lot less? We can't afford to waste public money this way while cutting basic rights. It is necessary, in our view, for a radical change in this decision-making, which implies that the Greeks and the Greeks, the pontiffs and the pontiffs, can think of whether it is best to spend 86 million on six kilometres by bus or whether they should devote themselves to other priorities. How can it be said – as we heard yesterday – that the public university system is unsustainable and, however, we support without blinking that 6 million euros are spent on six kilometres by bus, with a dubious social utility? How can you get rid of medicines for hepatitis C patients and support six kilometers per 100 million? In addition, this highway is sold as if it were a roundabout to Pontevedra. And it's not true, it's a quick four-track track that won't perform that function. Technically and in the plans, it's not going to be the solution for Pontevedra's circumference. Besides, now that the Deputy and the Town Hall have just bid the East Round, which is going to surround the city around that area and which improves access to the Montecelo Hospital. So we ask: when will austerity come to the definition of infrastructure? When will the real participation of people in defining their priorities? Where do these people want to prioritize spending of 100 million euros?, one bus more or want to invest in health care, education, work, social services, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Why don't you give people a word? We must also reflect on the meaning of "progress" in this country, where we can no longer speak of "infrastructure deficit", but rather of "irrationality in infrastructure". The criticisms of environmentally unsustainable infrastructures have already begun to come from whom you least expect. I read statements by Andrés Precedo Ledo – who is neither suspicious – that the highways and urbanizations that generate strong CO2 emissions and high energy consumption are solutions from the past. It regrets the delay in the deployment of intermodality and the metropolitan railway or tram networks, while we continue building highways that, in addition to impacting on the landscape, project an obsolete model. So far, even the European Commission has made a report in the same sense that there has been a bubble of transport infrastructure in this country. The growth of large road infrastructures, railways, airports, ports, etc. has been spectacular in recent years, but this has not served to have good services projected rationally. Nor should we forget the relationship between this meaningless infrastructure bubble. Something will have to do with the purpose of our infrastructure in our country. We have three uncoordinated airports; two external ports eight kilometers away and without defining their railway connections; AVE lines that will compete with the three airports; highways designed to increase still above the demand for individual mobility in transport, with an inflated demand intentionally to support from public budgets for decades while cutting in the basic. How is it possible that we talk about improvements and that we have all the Greeks and Greeks on a bus in less than fifteen minutes, when we don't have that nearby train, much cheaper, much more sustainable and much more socially cost-effective? That is the meaning of our initiative. It's an initiative that is consistent with what we've seen defending, we want rationality in infrastructure spending, we don't want more business for large infrastructure companies, we don't want it. And that's why we demand that we paralyze this project and use these resources to other priorities that we consider appropriate for the new time, for a new time when sustainability, the fight against climate change, the reduction of mobility must play a key role. We have to stop giving money to big businesses and start spending money on people's priorities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u123	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we share the need to provide rationality for investments that are made, and particularly for investments in infrastructure. In fact, I remember that it was this group in this legislation who, for example, also questioned some of the infrastructures that were going to be done, questioned this infrastructure privatization model and proposed alternatives and solutions in this area. And, above all, because we believe that always, not only because of the economic crisis, public money must be used strictly, thinking of the general interest and not thinking of particular interests. And we also know that, indeed, these types of criteria have not always played in the English field. And we also understand that all these kinds of infrastructure processes in Galicia have a social impact, an environmental impact, an even personal impact very important because of how we occupy the territory. Indeed, this kind of peculiarities and affection that is made to many nuclei, to many spaces and even to housing, because it's logical, legitimate that these people defend these kinds of issues. And we understand that administrations too must be sensitive and, therefore, in planning infrastructures within our country, these kinds of issues must be taken into account. Because it's obvious that it's not the same as planning an infrastructure in Castile, which has very compact population nuclei, that in Galicia, where we have the occupied territory in a very important part. However, to say this telegraphically, because this would lead to much deeper debate, it is also clear that we do not defend a fixed picture of our infrastructures and that there are needs that at certain times it is necessary to address, always and when they respond to logic, rationality and therefore have a social justification. One of the issues that we also consider when assessing the opportunity or not of infrastructure is road safety. And here, in fact, it's mentioned and it's related to one aspect, and we have an AP-9 that becomes a barrier for many people because of the high rates it has. And this is what it means is that a very important part of that traffic is drifting towards another kind of route. We'll discuss in this House some alternatives, too, about the problem that suddenly all of the heavy traffic if you want to force it to circulate through the AP-9. But of course there's a problem, and in particular at N-550, that there's a very important amount of heavy traffic that's going to that kind of route and that's causing a problem, therefore, of security in population centres where many people are living in that traffic as well. It's also true that Pontevedra is the only city in the state, all over the Spanish state, that at this point it doesn't yet have a circle. And I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that, in addition to other kinds of considerations, we will understand that having a circle for a city like Pontevedra is not a minor matter. And more so, we would say that what we would have to ask ourselves is how it could be that this work has been so late all these years. Because, really, we are talking about an infrastructure that has been claimed by all political, social, trade union and economic forces in the city since 1998. All of them, by the way, except the People's Party, which even constituted a platform, which was June 5th, where what was done was a claim linked to that circavaliation of road safety problems. There is also a prediction that when this is done part of the national infrastructure, it will now be a work that can be integrated as a conventional urban road and therefore also in that area. And we therefore understand that there are also important logical criteria to consider in that debate. We have also regretted since the BNG that the Ministry of Development was not much more permeable to the demands that have been made in relation to the impact of this work, and that even a few months ago it had rejected initiatives that were agreed upon in the Plenary of the Pontevedra Council to prevent and minimize the social impact, the environmental impact and therefore the practical implementation of this infrastructure. So what we stand for in our amendment is that the works are actually done with dialogue, with consensus, taking into account the least social and environmental impact, and that this is therefore a matter that is taken into account in the processing of an infrastructure that we think rationally there are weight arguments, to say whether or not they meet the purpose and the purpose they have to have, which is that they have a public utility for citizens, having the lowest environmental, personal and social impact, which I believe that we all and everyone must never underestimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have tabled a replacement amendment to your initiative for many reasons. I think some of them have just exposed them now also Mrs. Pontón in her speech when she spoke of the city of Pontevedra, and I perfectly subscribe to that intervention in that sense. But we must also speak of another council which is concerned with this alternative to AP-9, which is the Vilaboa municipality – of which I am natural – and which is suffering and enduring the consequences of the economic crisis, which leads thousands of drivers often to stop using AP-9 and move through the N-550 and the N-554, which literally cross all the centres of population of the Vilaboa municipality, with which we have increased traffic in a very notorious way at N-554 in more than fifteen thousand vehicles. And that's obviously resulting in problems for citizenship and in road safety and also increasing the rates of sinlessness. The truth is that the Socialists agree that this highway is being built, we agree that this first phase is being built not only, but also the second stage, because we believe that Vigo and Pontevedra have to have a free alternative to communicate with each other. I was told by my companion, Mr. Losada – now before leaving the gallery – that Vigo and Pontevedra are the only cities and capitals of the province – of more than 100,000 inhabitants, of course – that are not connected throughout Spain with a free waterway. And that's the main reason why we defend the construction of this highway. We defend him for that, we defend him to avoid the road insecurity that involves the situation that exists today. And we also defend her being aware that at a time of economic crisis, we have to prioritize the infrastructure that needs to be built. And that at a time when the economy is intended to be encouraged, the construction of this kind of infrastructure, in this case, which is absolutely necessary, can also help economic growth and activate the economy. And we are perfectly aware that this type of infrastructure always causes problems in citizenship. From the Vilaboa Town Hall, from the Government of the Vilaboa Town Hall, we have been completely collaborators from the first day with all the neighbors and neighbors who had any problems or who somehow affected the construction of this infrastructure. So much so that it was the council itself – and not surely in many places this happens – which helped the neighbors and neighbors to present their claims, and the council itself also introduced theirs. We are not 100 percent satisfied with the welcome of these allegations, not all of them have been heeded; there are some, like the racket that in our trial should communicate this highway with the N-550 and the N-554, which has not yet been admitted by the Ministry of Development. Despite that, what we want today is for the construction of this highway to begin immediately. Obviously, taking into account the allegations made by that council, which was the first to stand up to defend the interests of its neighbours and the general interests of the council. And we will continue to insist that these allegations be taken into account. In Vilaboa we are used to fighting with different administrations so that the infrastructure that passes through us is done in such a way that they take into account our concerns, our natural resources, our heritage. We're going to continue to do this because, fortunately, we have a government that is above all attentive to the interests of the neighbors and neighbors, and also paying attention and making the general interests of the country compatible. And that is why the amendment we tabled to you, Mr President, is for the construction of A-57 to begin, in this section Vilaboa-The Hermida, but also that you pay attention and that you respect the allegations made by the Vilaboa Council and, in particular, the connection – as I said – to the N-550. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u127	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u128	Good day again. The Platform of Affected by A-57 denounces the impact on areas of Ermida, Pintos, Tomeza and Vilaboa, which will be affected by the irreparable deterioration of the scope and the severe impact of the artistic and ethnographic heritage on its two extremes: the south, in Vilaboa, on the Way of Santiago and the Roman XIX road, and the north, on the place of Pintos, on the Royal Way of Ribadavia. Another concern is the problem of water supply and degradation of aquifers and mines. However, they will not be the only ones affected by this indispensable work, since the entire ecosystem will be affected. In fact, it's a corridor with no entries or exits and without connecting the parishes it's going through. In his blindness, he bets on large infrastructures for transport and motor, what he wants to do is a business for big builders and a ruin for society as a whole. The plot of A-57 aims to unite Pontevedra and Vigo with a free highway. Its first six-kilometre stretch between Vilaboa and Ermida is an example: 84 million euros without counting expropriations and an absolutely irregular processing, with the beginning of expropriations before having approved the environmental impact study. An unacceptable environmental impact that destroys the mountain of the Fracha and affects habitats of protected and threatened species and numerous water mines. Pontevedra's circumference, in fact, is not so, because the neighborhood must travel seven kilometers across the N-505 to reach Vilaboa before taking that infrastructure. Pontevedra, on the other hand, already has a circle: the AP-9 motorway. That highway should already be a free highway because it's the real circle of Pontevedra. If A-57 had been built, it would have been expected that this would have left a lot of traffic to AP-9, so that we could meet up with a highway to A-57 and have to rescue the AP-9 motorway. So there is again evidence of the unnecessary expenditure that is intended to be done. Galicia currently has more than a hundred miles of high-capacity routes, far above the European average. The whole of humanity faces two major challenges: climate change and the overrun of the peak of oil with the consequent end of the era of cheap oil. So the first thing we have to do is optimize the use of what we already have. They report social and environmental impacts and an unacceptable unnecessary overcrowding. The most sensible thing would be to speed up the highway's revision than to have a national road, a highway and a highway all together in ten kilometers. Conventional roads are in full degradation of firm and signage. This construction will involve the direct condition of at least three rivers of large volumes and others of lower volume, affecting many populations of amphibians and also affecting the San Simón LIC by altering the waters leading up to this area, where the birds that are part of this LIC are covered. It also presents a high population of jabaris and other mammals like the wolf or the blue pony. It is not understood, therefore, that spending on an irreflexive project when you are no longer investing in research, health or education, which should be priority sectors in your investment. The route between Vilaboa and La Ermida, just over six kilometers away, leaves a mountain in half, affects the birth of a river, a decade of water uptakes, a castle, the Way of Santiago, other historic pathways, and doesn't even connect the parishes that cross each other. The condition is greater in the place of Pintos, which departs with stems of 60 meters and touches fifty water points; the castle of the Farexa, the Way of Santiago, the historical road of the arreiros to Ribadavia and the flora and the local fauna is compromised. The technicians of the Pontevedra government themselves recognize that it causes too much environmental damage to continue with this work. So we continue to bet on collective public transport, on rail transport, on rail transport, and on high-capacity pathways that do not solve the problem of the Greeks and the Greeks, and which, however, suppose a tremendous expense that is not spent on much more important things, such as education or health, including the treatment of patients with hepatitis C. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Alonso. [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mr. Gómez Alonso's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that once the voices of the Joint Group and the AGE have been heard, we have two models completely faced. Mr. Sánchez accuses the People's Party model of an outdated model, of a road infrastructure policy model that is now immersed in a bubble. This undermines corruption in a free and free way, but he will know what he says, what he does and the evidence he has. And then, even above all, he makes demagogy by saying that what he invests there is not invested in as serious issues as what he has been talking about today, as is the theme of hepatitis C. What we do care about is the obsession that the Left-Galga Alternative has with paralyzing constructive projects that are vital to the economic development of this country. They started with the high-capacity Tui-A Guard. For you to understand, this one has three thirds and they asked us to cancel the third two, when I was on duty one and if you're going to run the third three, and they asked us to cancel the third two. Well, frankly, if you're the policy that they're hardly going to be able to pose at least one sensible alternative that the citizens of this country vote for. And now they're asking us to cancel the truce one of the A-57 bus. And of course this is because they don't believe in the advantages of road infrastructure policies. We are absolutely convinced that those road infrastructure policies that have been well planned are profitable for Galician citizens, generate territorial cohesion, generate territorial vertebration and improve the competitiveness of our companies and, most importantly, are indispensable tools for the mobility of our citizens. And if we focus on what happens in the metropolitan area of Vigo, Mr. Sánchez, it is indisputable that the metropolitan area of Vigo needs alternatives to improve the penetration in what is the most populated area of our country. You're talking about A-57 being a wasteland, because A-57 is precisely one of those solutions that have been proposed for many years now to improve accessibility and penetration in the most populated area in our country, and also of the biggest problems in traffic, traffic jams and collapses – as you know – on Rande Bridge. So we have absolutely clear that A-57 is a perfectly necessary highway to connect and improve the accessibility of the Vigo metropolitan area. And you should also bear in mind that AP-9, as much as you or some groups disqualify, is Galicia's main artery, and from that main artery of Galicia comes out a whole meshed network that is indispensable to improve the mobility of the Greeks. There's the Salnés bus, the Barbados bus, AP-53, the Carballo and Baiona motorways, the Ártebra route, Santiago-Brion, even our two big connecting highways with the Meseta arrive at AP-9. So we're talking about AP-9 as the highway that is the main arterial network that communicates all of Galicia and about which all the infrastructures are planned. And when you talk about waste, you should get the whole Vigo Plan that was approved in the former bipartisan government, which was indeed an example of waste. Look, over five thousand claims received this whole Vigo Plan; of course, we paralyze it. But there were over 2,000 million euros in investments in highway networks in the metropolitan area and it provided for more than seventy performances. This was a waste, Mr. Sánchez. And when you talk and criticize A-57, you use erroneous arguments, and I say it with all due respect. Because, look, this bus is not the bus of the EUR 1 billion, the only bus of the EUR 1 billion in Galicia is A-76; this bus costs EUR 686 million. And it's not 64 kilometers, it's 59; and it's not to join Pontevedra-Vigo, it's Pontevedra-The Confurco, that is, The Porriño; it's for better access by another penetration area of the city of Vigo. I'm surprised that you're now so worried about the AP-9 crash, which is a speculation that makes the Left Galician Alternative when you put on duty-free bus services. With regard to the allegations, I am prepared to give you a copy of the Official Gazette of the State published on July 23, 2014, which argues all the allegations made by the neighbours of the Vilaboa Town Hall around the environmental impact of this third one on that council and on the claims they make. They are perfectly argued, and much of them – as Mrs Gallego has told you – are taken into account in the environmental impact statement. But I'll tell you something else to finish. For many years we have brought and defended in this Parliament and in the territory many platforms of affected by which we are referred to as the "infrastructural dictatorship". If there are still people who are concerned about the degree of affection of the impact of the execution of these works, we are willing to sit down with them and broker with the Ministry of Development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u132	...to reach consensus solutions. And you know why we do it, Mr. Sánchez? Because we've always been against the dictatorship of the plots. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u133	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez. [[Pause.]] Give Mr. Sánchez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u134	Mr. Gómez Alonso, you won't give me time to talk about the ability to penetrate, and look at how sorry you are, eh! That's why two models stand out, Mr. Gómez Alonso; there I have to give you the reason. Someone has to say here what is already being analyzed from outside, and it's analyzing what happened in this country in the last twenty-five years in infrastructure. Someone has to say the waste that I have subjected and, of course, the interruption of corruption as a central element in order to carry out all this theft to citizenship. Because it is true, Mr. Gómez Alonso, that if you spend on three airports – of which no one has a rail connection – in two external ports – which are eight kilometers away and have no railway connection defined – if you waste highways – which do not have enough demands, it is obvious that you stop spending on other issues that are indeed important to people. Of course, the resources are finite, and that's why if you spend on one side you don't hook on the other. We say, it's not a circle. It is technically impossible for the citizens of Pontevedra to use this project as a circumvaluation. From any point they have to travel at least six kilometers to enter this high-capacity track, it's not a circle. On the other hand, it turns out that there are now alternatives to AP-9. All right, first of all, we gave AP-9 to a company, which makes a lot of money selling it without any improvement work to an American company, and now it turns out that to solve this we have to build at the same time as ten kilometers a bus so that citizens can go free of charge. And why in AP-9 you have to pay fees, why don't you make AP-9 free of fees? Wouldn't it be an environmentally more respectful solution, socially much more just? Or do you think this model is rational and sustainable? No one believes that. You who have to enter this Parliament are already analyzing that this is an unsustainable model, which goes against citizenship. A citizenship, for example, the members of the Save The Fracha platform, who are alone when governments listen deafly to their demands, alone, because they don't listen. The allegations of the environmental assessment procedure are not a participatory process; these people have the right to say that they want to spend their money. Because they say: Vigo and Pontevedra are the only cities that have no toll-free connection. Vigo, Pontevedra, Coruña and Ferrol are also the only urban groupings of this size that don't have a nearby train throughout the Spanish state. They don't have one either, and it's much cheaper to get close to the Coruña and Ferrol than just this highway project. With these resources we would have nearby trains connecting Ferrol-A Coruña and Pontevedra-Vigo. It's not just because, of course, there are interests behind it, there are interests and complications between governments and companies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u135	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the health concert signed by Sergas with Povvisa and the measures for termination of employment provided for by the management of the centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u136	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the parliamentary groups of the Socialists of Galicia and AGE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u137	You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u138	Well, although the employment regulation file presented in Povervisa was withdrawn by the company's management on Friday 20th, I keep this initiative because they're on top of the new redundancies table on March 13th. So simply, as there were so many illegalities in that ERE, they had to change it, and now they intend to make another restructuring. The restructuring of the staff framework that Povisa intended to carry out is in contradiction with the clauses of the Sergas-Povervisa health concert and the Basic Health Agreement in the area of Vigo health. On September 1, 2014, a new singular concert between Povervisa and the Galician Service was signed, at least until 2022, which guarantees its workload during these years. On January 22, 2015, three and a half months after the signing of the concert, Povisa's management presented an ERE to the company committee, with a total of 56 redundancies. The first extinction is a collective termination of contracts due to economic causes, because it estimates a public sector billing down for the 2015 financial year of EUR 4,758,000 due to the concert signed with Sergas. This extinction affected all cleaning personnel, 14 women, telephone and visit control, and 10 people from the physiotherapy service with indefinite contract; 34 lay-offs due to economic causes arising from the new concert. Because, in addition, what Povervisa intends to do is to fire these 34 people and subcontract these services, including physiotherapy, where he intended to fire 10 physiotherapists with indefinite contract, to eliminate six contracts of practice that he has and subcontract with external companies even treatments. This text therefore fails to perform the concert, because physical medicine and rehabilitation are among the benefits included in the concert. And in the hospital ward in the boarding school, it's also guaranteed in the concert that Povisa will be the one that puts the basic hotel services. In the provision of the twenty-ninth, assignment and subcontracting of services, he said that Povervisa could not agree with third parties the assignment of rights and obligations arising from the concert without express authorization from the contracting administration, which he did not seem to have. In addition, Articles 226.2, 227.1, 227.2(a) 228.1 of Royal Decree Law 3/2011 are not required, so the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act is approved, which constitutes an infringement provided for in Article 227.3 of the Royal Decree. The second measure, the restructuring of the staffing and turn of captors and auxiliaries for organisational reasons, presupposes the dismissal of twelve indefinite contracts based on change in the shift based on lack of workload and compliance with the decision of the Supreme Court of Galicia of 26 December 2013; that is, more than one year after failing to comply with the sentence, it intends to use the sentence to fire the staff. Povisa will be left with only 24 cells for the entire hospital, including emergencies, surgeries, burns or ICUs. The affected hospital areas are medical hospitalization, surgery and oncohematology. Povervisa's staff has already fallen in more than 100 people over the past four years, from 1,480 workers and workers in 2010 to 1,370 today, after several collective redundancies. [[Murmurs.]] Please, President, it's impossible for me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u139	Yes, yes, you're right. Lower your tone, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u140	Thank you. That loss of staff is added to the historical shortage of staff in Povervisa, to which we must add, in addition, the loss of newspapers hidden after the mandatory change of full-time newspapers to part-time newspapers under the threat of dismissal. So, of the 190 auxiliaries that work in Povervisa, only 27 have a full day; of the 36 zonators, only 8 work full day. This measure fails to comply with the terms set out in the concert in Chapter II, "Health loans to be carried out by Povervisa", because it says that it must have the necessary nursing care for the proper care of patients. In addition, it involves substantial change in working conditions for staff not affected by the ERE. The other measure, the termination of the three contracts of the Clinical Archive Service, is the closure of the archive; as is the termination of seven contracts of the hospital reception area, which means the closure of the Clinical Secretariat Service. In addition, poor people comply with the following provisions of the concert: "Chapter II: Poverty must comply with all the rules, instructions, programs and criteria established by Sergas concerning the services included in the object of this concert. You must comply with the provisions and rules of application established by Sergas for your own centres." This doesn't buy Povervisa. Performance of the concert: "You must have the same objectives as the Sergas centres, which include defining a staff policy aligned with the needs of the system and professionals, an effective assistance and resource management." And in addition, in the management agreement it is noted that the quality indicators must be exactly the same as those of Sergas. In addition, the basic health agreement in the area of Vigo, signed in 2006 between the Health Council, the IGC, Commissions and UGT trade unions, the Confederation of Entrepreneurs, the University of Vigo and the Povisa itself, where the commitment to maintain employment in the health sector of Vigo, both in the private-concerted sector and in the public sector, reduces labour timeliness, betting on stable and quality employment. Something that, of course, Povervisa has been failing for years; not fulfilling, not, but taking all the way against. The concert with Povvisa must also guarantee the quality activity necessary to maintain the current employment, it says that agreement. In 2006, from that agreement, Povervisa will be solely responsible for the increase in staffing, but what is true is that the Council has a direct responsibility over the number of workers in 2006, who are committed to maintaining that template and are not fulfilling it. Therefore, the 2006 agreement prevents further reduction of the Povervisa staff under the staff table in 2006. In addition, Royal Decree 1,483/2012 also violates, by failing to provide the annual accounts of the last two economic years, delivering only the data of 2013, while ERE is based on the accounts of 2014. It also violates chapter X about penalties, very serious breaches, as it is not to cover all duties with the necessary staff, because, as I have reported more than once, in Povervisa there are shifts, there are times where services are left with only one professional in charge of the entire service. It also violates the first twenty-first stipulation, because Povervisa is obliged to carry out everything in the field of work while the Council says it has no responsibility whatsoever. As I've just said, it's not true about the 2006 template. So we have an initiative to paralyze this ERE. And although he's already paralyzed, we do want him to vote to send to the people what he has, what he can and what he can't do, that he has to meet all the points of the concert, that he has to comply with the minimum quality and management set for Sergas, as he says at the concert, and that he's obliged to keep a staff box that is never less than the year 2006, when he is now less than and, as I said, more than 80% of the staff of assistants and celliers are found with a part-time schedule. We also ask that, if Povisa persists in these measures of repeated non-compliance with firm judgments, collective dismissals, and failure to comply with the minimums of quality established by the concert, the sanctions that are set out in Chapter X itself of the concert should be applied; in addition, it emphasizes that it has a very serious failure to have material and human resources necessary for the proper provision of the service, something proven, because I myself handed over to the advisor the documents that believe that the services are without staff for certain hours of the day. Another very serious non-compliance is the diversion of persons treated for profit purposes to other services, such as what they intend to do with the subcontracting of cleaning services, reception services, visits control and, how not, physiotherapy, which is the one that calls most to heaven, because that is already a health treatment that cannot in any case be subcontracted. You can't afford it. And what I ask the People's Party to do is to vote in favour of this non-law proposal to prevent Povervisa from continuing to do a health business, a lucrative business. Health is not a business, we expect the support of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u141	For the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u142	Thank you, President. Well, we're tired and tired of having to, for the last time, bring topics about Povervisa either of the opposition groups, because of the tolerance to the non-compliances that the company makes by this government. It is clear that the wager of the Alternative Glaga de Left became clear from the beginning for the health of the Galicians and the Greeks, which is only public health. But in addition, all groups are constantly reporting non-compliances. When they're not working, they're waiting lists, they're staff ratios, they're access to health services that don't cover the center, etc. It seems that we are going to have to keep bringing the debate to Povervisa, because the Government seems to follow or intends to keep looking to the other side. Mrs. Martínez, we have obviously told you that we are going to support this non-law proposal. It seems to us that the Galician Union continues to give its back to the workers and workers of the centre, allowing this perpetually practical ERE, clippings of days, redundancies, cuts of rights, while the Council not only doesn't rebuke it, nor does it demand the fulfilment of legality, but, above all, renews the concert for the maximum permitted by law, a millionaire concert that we don't know in practice how much it will cost. There was a talk of 90 million euros, because in addition to the concert itself, you have to pay the pharmacy, you have to pay the services that are not contained, etc. And while, like last year, it's compensated with 6 million euros for that overcare of patients, while the company has some benefits, as in 2013, which amounted to 11.3 million euros. In 2014, obviously, as we said here, we don't know, because they don't give the data. They say they're out of audit. We don't know if it's true or not. This is the policy of the Galician Union on health matters, cut the public off and benefit private companies in parallel. And look, obviously, to the other side, when, once again, workers and workers are looking at how their labor rights and their jobs perish, this time threatened and threatened with that ERE that was finally removed. Although, I say, we agree, we tabled an amendment, in view of this withdrawal from the ERE, to try to complement the initiative. Because the reason for this withdrawal was not that Junta should be seen by the health and health rights of the centre, it was not withdrawn because the company was re-thinking, recupiting, and it was thought that these rights should be respected, but that it was actually ill-considered, it had no basis and no remedy but to withdraw it. But the warning is of course that they intend to follow the measures of cuts in human resources, so we present an amendment which, firstly, suggests that more layoffs are prevented. Because the ratios, as stated here, are already heavy and do not obey what is being demanded of the Galician Health Service, the company is going to practice new personnel cuts and, in addition, today's Union should commit itself, through the group supporting the Galician Union, the Popular Group, to respect that template. And secondly, we have to ensure that the rights contained in that collective agreement, because of course they won't stop in this respect, and they won't try again to cut down, gathering down agreements – as provincial agreements may be – to facilitate the loss of rights and purchasing capacity. The threats are on the table. We've known them and they're still letting them perpetuate themselves without doing anything at all from the Council. We believe that it is well enough, that 80% of the attendance at this centre is public assistance. They're giving him a lot of millions that had to be dedicated to our public health. Those 90 million euros a year, in ten years, you did, you were able to build at least a couple of hospitals. And yet he seems to have a patent to fire and cut, threatening with supposed economic losses. It's enough, therefore, to allow the profits of this company the cost of the health of the Galicians and the Greeks. In this sense, in addition to the amendment, even if it is not accepted, we will also support the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u143	For the Socialist Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that last night I had a little political shock, and this morning I had another one. And I start with a textual phrase – I'm going to say it in Spanish because it was pronounced in Spanish –: "Don't come back here to do and say anything; it's been pathetic." This was said by the President of the Government of Spain, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, to the leader of the most voted opposition party, voted by the citizens, and shows perfectly the authoritarian tics... and I am being gentle – to avoid problems primarily to the Presidency – in what I think of this political valuation. I understand perfectly well that they opposed education for citizenship, I understand perfectly. The concept of democracy, therefore, well, is a concept that is breast-feeding, and tense, that is not bought; and, when you don't, there's no way, intellectual or mercantile, to buy it. And today Mr. President of Galicia said something absolutely ignominious because he told us that the HIV patients were very expensive to this Autonomous Community. He said that, he said that 35 million euros... of what he didn't talk about is the gross cuts in socio-health care to these sick people or how the anti-AIDS committees in all the cities of Galicia are literally asking for cuts at the doors. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] That's what he said. [[Murmurs.]] How come you didn't say that? [[Murmurs.]] Of course he did! He said it cost 35 million euros, as if it were an alms, as if it were a gift from the Government of Galician Union. Or, at least... – Will you leave me, Mr? – this is what this honourable Member has understood; of course, this is what this Member has understood. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] And I'd like them to be told to social workers and doctors – and let's not tell the sick – that they work with HIV patients in this autonomous community and in this country. [[Murmurs.]] I'd like you to, and you to be so angry, to have given your face and to tell him; I'd like to. I don't know if it's medical or not, but I'd like you to tell them. Look, Povervisa is a long story, part of the history of systematic discrimination in the Vigo health area in relation to other health areas in Galicia. In 2010, when I was still a advisor to Mrs Farjas – who now appears as a star system, in Hollywood plan, in the presentations of the Health Council – the Socialist Group has advanced a hypothesis that is being fulfilled: the contacts of the Health Council with large Spanish hospital groups to take charge of Povervisa and its management. And in return, they would give you exactly the management of radio rings, labs, etc. of Vigo's new hospital – private lobby. And there was – as Mrs Martínez well said – an agreement of the year 2006 signed by Sergas, by all trade unions and workers and public health workers to defend a model in which, in fact, jobs were not lost in the global health system, but that Vigo's hospital was the fundamental reference center. This all flew through the air from 2009 – and you know –; all they did was paste him and baptize him; yes, they named him when there wasn't even even made the explosions of the future hospital and spent hundreds of thousands of euros on propaganda about Vigo's new public hospital – that everyone knows it's not. And this strategy – which is a long-term strategy and which is a non-innocent strategy, without any doubt – has to do with clear discrimination in Vigo's health area and has to do with – and it has to be said – the professional trajectory of the current health advisor to this government. It has to do with that smaller, private hospital, which turns Povervisa not into a complementary hospital, but into a reference hospital of 150,000 people; it has to do with the exit of high-specialization medical activities from the northern part of the province towards Santiago. Which means less funds for Vigo and above all means that the number of patients treated is lower; therefore, efficiency, beyond the capacity of professionals, is less; it means, with the systematic dramas in the emergencies, with the unforgivable physical decay of the Hospital do Mexoeiro... how sad that the sanctuary of the Virgin of the Boat, which was laid on her ceiling in three months, had not been on the Mount of the Vigo Mexo! If they were as fast as fixing hospitals as marking churches, the population of Vigo would really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u145	Go finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u146	I'm going to finish, Madam President. And actually, the same thing happens with the labs, those that promised those companies as bait. And the lab test will give it because I think it's about such a financial scandal... Look, in December 2014 the advisor announces that she will spend in the lab 43.6 million euros; January 29, 2015 – a month later –...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u147	We have to finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u148	...19.9 million euros, half; and 21 February, in the BOE, 33.8 million euros. This is, without a doubt, economic planning. We tabled an amendment. In any case, we will support the initiative, regardless of the decision of the Joint Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u149	For the Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u150	Good day to all and all. Clearly, the situation of public health in Galicia is only getting worse by the measures of the People's Party. Indeed, today it has been especially painful to hear the president of the board how he wanted to understand that the health care of the Greeks and the Greeks is the fruit of his kindness, of his livelihood, and that he responds perfectly to what they are doing. But if the overall health situation in Galicia is bad, it is true that Vigo's health area is particularly grave. At this point I think it is already more than confirmed that they are using it – the health area – as evidence bank for the privatisations of the People's Party. When we talk about Povervisa, we talk about two issues: first of all, the actions in the health area carried out by the Galician Union in the hands of the People's Party were all on the way to continuing the concert with Povervisa – all the decisions that were made, from the reduction of the hospital to many others, are exclusively to have to continue to maintain that concert with Povervisa – and on the other hand, it is the visualization of dismantling by the Labour Affairs Council. It's an example of how the Galician Union delivers public resources and then abandons the workers of the companies to whom it delivers these public services. Indeed, on September 1st, the Galego Health Service once again formalized a concert with Povervisa, and said the bomb and plate that this concert meant the viability of the company, which meant the labor stability of workers, but we found that in January 2015 the company presented an ERE that had been withdrawn for a few days. It all indicates that withdrawal theoretically justified by a lack of documentation, but what's next on the table is that the company's intentions to continue attacking the labor rights of workers and workers there are still standing. He's still holding the expenditure containment speech, the loss provision speech, the patient loss speech; which was then contradicted by the municipal licence request for the extension of the plant devoted especially to the attention to private assistance and discourse that is not binding on workers and workers. But, in any case, an ERE designed to try to keep pressing workers and workers; an ERE that I, of course, did not think I had any intention of trying to lay down for the last time a collective agreement that the judges had already told him that I could not lay down more than the company, and he persists. But, as the proponent of the initiative said, the threat of layoffs is still pending. Objective, productive or organizational causes are still phrases pronounced by the company to try to justify dismissals. The company maintains that it will continue to take action. They didn't explain why the ERE was removed, beyond that documentation justification, what measures they're going to take or how many they're going to take. But what is clear is that they follow the idea of taking action against the workers. From here I want to bless the workers and workers of Povervisa, especially their business committee, for maintaining and defending the situation of their jobs firmly, for having done a forceful performance of maintaining a minimum of quality and jobs in this company, despite the fact that they have been subjected to a truly deplorable job situation on the one hand and on the other. And at the same time that I want to bless and bless the workers and workers, I want to denounce here again the incomprehensible performance of the Council, which, in front of a company that receives more than 600 million euros from the public era over and over again makes constant aggressions on the workers of the Council and remains unstoppable. The president of the board disagreed in public statements, the councillor disagreed in public statements, put a collection there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u151	You have to finish, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u152	... – Finished already, Madam President – in the concert that the company will have to monitor this, forgetting that the German Government has competence in the field of health and occupational competences. With which, we support this initiative and, of course, we expect a change in the Council regarding its performance with this company.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u153	And now yes, Mr. Santalices, for the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. Well, clearly, there are two positions faced here: there's a position on this side that's in favor of closing the Povervisa hospital and there's a position on this side that's not closing the Povervisa hospital. Because we believe – and so we always say – in the complementarity of services, especially when they are services of hospitals evaluated with quality. O you with your speech! If your speech is to want to close Povervisa, well, keep on with that... yes, yes, you can say... here's what you just expressed. We're not going to talk about ERE. HE'S buried, there's no discussion. What we should do is congratulate ourselves on not having an ERE. There was a basic agreement on health, in the area of Vigo, signed in 2006 by a socialist adviser, all trade unions and all businessmen. That agreement said what it said, and you here made reference. That agreement said he was also betting on public-private collaboration. What do you mean, no? I can read, I can read! That's what he said, eh! And here they're keeping jobs. Since then, 143 more workers. Look, I know you think I have great actions in Povervisa. I've got a lot more than you think, I'll tell you, a lot more! You can't tell me what's cooled up here. Clearly 143 more jobs. Stop passing on to them what's not going to be possible. Sergas will never assume the workers of Povervisa! He can't do it! Poor people just faced a process of free hospital choice, and the result is what it was, 4,000 people decided to change. And Povervisa knows that its funding comes out, because it's a per capita funding, 540 euros, from which its funding derives. Povervisa is a quality hospital accredited by Sergas. He's got a longer period of accreditation even than some Sergas hospital, he's got him for four years. I will never allow you to say that Povervisa has no quality. Poor people have quality, because... but you're saying that in Povervisa there's no merit in the quality of any of Sergas hospitals, so you have a population sector that covers, which is an assigned sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Besides, if you don't agree – and you're very close to that, and I doubt that – you know where to go: to the courts. But you have to be careful. I would never do it is make public here what you did. One thing that exists in Sergas, which is to avoid the mistakes of doctors and nurses, to make it public. Because the great work of [...] is precisely not to be made public. So I would ask him to have some reflection on this. Besides, it seems to me that Povervisa deserves to be mentioned in principle with a normal casuistic. Do you know or don't know the concert? We've been arguing here for two plenary sessions, whether you know the concert or not. Do you know the concert? You bet you didn't know the concert. Now it seems that the concert was already known, what happens is that you didn't know how to look; that's another problem that happens to me sometimes, but I wouldn't make that statement. So on the subject of Povervisa, our positions are clear. We're complementary. Public health with private, accredited and quality health care. That's our model, we have no problem. The basic agreement, by the health area, was thus referred to: public-private collaboration. We respect that agreement, I think it was a good deal, and it's also seen that we haven't touched it, which is since 2006. And, Mr. Losada, man, it's not very ethical for you to take advantage of the set of which Mrs. Soneira is presiding over to do what she just did. I would never do that. You took advantage of this set here to make a speech that I'm not going to qualify neither if it's a pathetic or antithetic speech, nor if it's an antipathic speech, I'm not going to get into that kind of speech. What I do think is that you made a demagogicly dangerous speech. Yes, yes, you just said here... maybe you're the only one in the whole room who misunderstood. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The president clearly stated a number of matches for the assistance of certain pathologies. But the president said: access to all the treatments of patients who need it is guaranteed. That's what the president said. Yes, yes, I was... yes, yes, yes, I was in this plenary and the president... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u155	Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u156	...I clearly say that those patients who are medically qualified need the treatments, treat them. You don't get another conclusion. I've talked here many times... look, look, sorry, I've talked here many times that a heart transplant can cost 20 million pesetas. [[Interruptions.]] What does that mean?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u157	Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u158	...that I'm against heart transplants? You mean to tell me that I'm against heart transplants? Man, please, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u159	Mr. Losada, please! Mr. Santalices, you're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u160	I'm done. His speech, as I don't want to qualify him with any of those things, I'm going to end up with a joke. See if your speech can enter the book that will publish – you are allowed to publish – the beloved leader. You're a bad imitator of the beloved leader every time he makes a speech. See if they ever let you post it there. But what you did here today, that speech, of course, seemed to me, of course, out of tone. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u161	Mr. Losada, please! Mr. Gallego. Before you give the floor to the debate of the next non-law proposal, simply explain to Mr. Santalices that the set consists... oh, sorry, sorry! I use it to say it. The set-up, in this case, of the circumstantial presidency is simply to preside, and not castrate the ability that no Member has to express his political position. Nothing else. [[Applause]] To close this debate in this non-law proposal, and to stand on the amendments, you have the floor of Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u162	Well, Mr. Santalices, no one here has asked Sergas to take over Povervisa's staff. It is requested that the Council comply with its obligation and compels the people to comply with all the terms of the concert, including the quality parameters, which must be like those of Sergas. By the way, we will have to ask for this study where the Council, in order to give you the concert, proves that the quality parameters of Povervisa are the same as those of Sergas. We also know that the 2015 Management Agreement is not yet signed. Therefore, Povervisa is working without any objectives and no control of the Council. We also ask you to force Povervisa to comply with the law – all the laws, because it violates several – the firm judgments of the higher courts, which are not fulfilling them either, and the Vigo Health Area Agreement, which is not being complied with either. Besides, you were talking about the fact that Povisa now has 143 more workers than in 2006. Mr. Santalices, please! He understands things and doesn't speak for the voice of Povisa's leadership. I have just read the staff and the number of staff who passed part-time, with four-hour contracts, 20- or 30-hour contracts. That's Povisa's template! But what are you talking about? Really! And tell me, moreover, on charges, that if you're a friend of yours to go to the courts. Mr. Santalices, going to the courts is a right of everyone. So you can't accuse anyone of friendship by going to the courts. And as for public failings, I'm not going to shut up when I know there's medical neglect in any hospital, I don't care if it's called Povervisa, whether it's called General Cíes, Mesore, or whatever it's called. Our duty is to come here and report where there is no adequate quality of care for patients. And I'll tell you why I'm telling you. Look, how much do we have to pay for Povervisa's compensation? This month Povisa had to pay compensation to a Morrazo patient after an intervention at the Povisa Hospital. In 2014, Sergas was compensated for the death of a patient after an intervention in Povisa. In 2011, another sentencing Sergas to compensate a Morrazo family for a patient who entered Povervisa, was discharged, and died at home. In 2010, another compensation for Sergas, because of Povervisa, to a neighbor in Gondomar who because of medical neglect remains with hemiplexy and a motor aphasia. That's the result of the quality of care that's being given in Povervisa. And they're just some of the examples. The Union is obliged to guarantee equal access, to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks, to equal health for all, with the same quality parameters, and that's what is required on this initiative. Poor people have to understand that they can't do health business. Health is a right, if you want to do business, what you have to do is go on with the boats, and not get into hospitals. Do business with the gas tankers, do business with their ships, but stop doing business with the health of the people who go there. Poor man can't sign any more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u163	You have to finish, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u164	...a millionaire concert, which has just been signed, to bring to the concert the need to continue firing people. What's going on is losing patients. And he loses patients because he doesn't provide the right quality of care. And the second goes by firing people and worsening working conditions, it will diminish the quality of care and continue to lose patients. That's the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u165	Mrs. Martínez, you have to finish and you have to position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u166	...from Povisa. So -- it's over -- it's not just a claim to the rights of the workers in Povervisa, but also that of the patients, who are cared for in Povervisa, for the quality of care. Nothing else. Just say that I accept the amendments of the two groups that complement the initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the ownership and civil use of the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres, as well as to disseminate its history, meaning and relevance as heritage of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u167	For the defense of the initiative, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. "When we close our edition, 4 in the afternoon, we are assured that the excellent Archbishop, according to several capitulars whose names we will make public in due course, has denied the leave to preach prayer in the funeral... "I think it is better to speak out, more than nothing... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u169	Mrs. Pontón, I'll call the order to the room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u170	I don't doubt it, Madam President. I'll start again, in case you haven't listened, because I'm sure this will be fundamental to the debate. "When we close our edition, 4 in the afternoon, we are assured that the excellent Archbishop, according to several capitulars whose names we will make public in due course, has denied the leave to preach the prayer, in the funeral act in honour of Rosalía de Castro, in charge of the Canon Mr. Portal. We are told by our correspondents that a commission of the Regionalist Committee and others visited the Archbishop and strongly begged him to revoke the strict order not to grant the Catholic poet, singer of the Virgin of the Boat, of the admirable Portico de la Gloria, of the Holy School, of the cemetery of Iria and the bells, all the honours of the Church at a simple funeral with praise, as it is granted to all people, though profane, illustrious." This is a text that is rescued by Francisco Rodríguez in his book Rosalía, a foreigner in his homeland, who collects what happened with the transfer of Rosalía's remains to the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres. Translated that – as your lordships know – means the inaugural milestone for others to end up being deposited in this space, that at that time was a space held by the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela. We are reminded of this text, and also in the chronicle, as not only the Catholic Church, but also the public powers at that time, tried to boycott by all means that Rosalía might be buried in this pantheon. Chronics also indicate how the governor himself tried to ban the exhumation of Rosalía's remains. Even the chronicles also tell us how surely the problems of having to deal with the Archbishop all the ceremony that could be done there was the reason why Murguía did not participate in the exhibition he deposited with the remnants of Rosalía. A final quote on this issue, which seems to me relevant to the debate that we are going to have today, and which is also a chronic of how this event was held, says: "Doña Rosalía de Castro will undoubtedly be the first lady to be buried in this chapel for free, against the opinion of the administrators of the Church, and only by the unanimous will of the whole people of Galicia, who acclaimed and venerated, and to whom no one could overlap." I told you, Your Honor, that this is interesting because it's part of the history of this country, and it's a relevant note for us to be aware of how amazing it is that, more than a hundred years later, Rosalía ends up being in a space that, with an absolutely unusual judgment, is once again the title of the Church. Church that tried by all means that Rosalía could not be in that space because, certainly, in her work there is a very important criticism of the role played by the Catholic Church. We understand that the situation that we are living at this time in connection with the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres is an anomalous, epintic situation and that it should be clearly worthy of action by the public authorities, at the height of the relevance that this pantheon has, in which there are such illustrious personalities as Rosalía and Castelao, who are already – say – part of the collective imagination of our people and therefore are also a symbol of Galicia. We believe, from the BNG, that it is an aberration that a pantheon that was born into a secular space, a civil space, is now protected by the Catholic Church. Because, in any case, the guardianship of the remains does not correspond to it, but should be a guardianship carried out from the public domain. We believe that the performance of ecclesiastical powers in this case is petty, but we also find it aberrant to the position held by the Council of Galicia in connection with this matter, who, despite having instruments of negotiation, dialogue and agreement in order to reverse this situation, has clearly preached to the interests of the Church. In fact, we now denounce in this Parliament that this agreement was not the solution to ensure a dignified treatment for the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres, and time is giving us reason. I don't know how many of your lords have visited the pantheon in recent times. You'll see it's inaccessible through your front door. You'll see that on many occasions you can't access it. You'll see, or you could see, if you've been worried about this matter, as you've even made exposures in that space that caused the chapel in which the remnants of Rosalía were flooded by banks and, therefore, if you commit an atrologo that we believe from the point of view of dignity it's not tolerable. And you will also know that what is going to be accomplished is that the Church is beginning to impose censorship on what kind of acts can be done on this pantheon. Last year we saw, for example, a youth organization, Galicia Nova, who has been paying tribute to Rosalía and Castileo for more than ten years, on July 24, we were prevented from accessing that pantheon with excuses that, of course, we feel they are not welcome and that they manifest how the Church is acting – even in this case with the help of the Galician Union – censoring what activities can be done in that space and what activities are not. Since the BNG we have continued to advocate that the headquarters of the Pantheon of San Domingos de Bonaval is the seat for the pantheon by tradition, by history, by symbolism, so it represents for us. But, of course, there must be guarantees for this to be a secular space, for civil use, where there can be no kind of censorship or guardianship on the part of ecclesiastical powers in deciding who can or can not go to that space, and, above all, there must be a change in the concealment that is made about that fact and the symbolism that it has for our own country. Over the years, we have had different debates in this Parliament. We proposed that this agreement be modified, that the Board should act to really reach an agreement, and we believe that there are instruments that the German Government could use to actually seek an optimal solution in this case. But we see how cowardice and permissiveness continue to put a slate against a space that is relevant to us. That is why on this date, which is a symbolic date, but we believe that precisely because of this symbolism is of greater value, we bring the debate in this Parliament that we urge the Galician Union to use the means it can legally use to restore the public ownership of the pantheon, and one of these means is the expropriation of use. We've chosen this formula for something that we think and reason, not because it happened to us right now. Expropriation of use is something that can legally be done, only the declaration of public utility and social interest is needed. This space is an asset of cultural interest and, therefore, it is seen that question. There are also facts that demonstrate how the Church itself has violated the principles they reject for goods of cultural interest. Clearly, for our collective identity there is a social interest in our national symbols being treated up to what Galicia deserves. We think it's not about receiving the treatment we're giving to one of our national symbols right now. Most of all, I would say that in the case of Castro's own Rosaly, in which we believe that this 24th day yesterday, it was demonstrated how much more there is and, of course, much more to the value of our writer than Galicia's own board, that we must regret that he is simply invited into acts that organize others, that he does not promote or even promote that in school is officially Rosalía's day and, therefore, that he is promoted, that he works...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u171	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u172	...in all schools, and that you simply take advantage of that date to go on with hollow words that, in any case, you're still about to see if they have something of truth. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that approving this initiative would be an act of collective dignity for our country, for Rosalía, for Castelao, for Asorey, for all those who are buried in this pantheon, because we believe that a symbol of this country, in the middle of the 21st century, cannot be under the care of the Catholic Church, cannot be placed in any parameters that return us to the 19th century. You will know where you want to be, if in the 21st century, with a lay and civil space, or in the 19th century, with a new slate about Rosalía. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u173	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u174	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you very much, President. Perhaps Rosalía de Castro, as a priest's daughter, receives this treatment from the Catholic Church. I can't explain anything else. Bonaval has become a symbolic place of memory of galeguity since May 25, 1891, when the famous Pantheon of Galegos Illustres was inaugurated, with the transfer from the Pattern of the remains of our writer Rosalía de Castro; the daughter of a priest, I remind you of them. Bonaval came to Curros in 1904 to make an offering to the woman who founded contemporary Greek literature with Cantares Galicians. The woman who, in a very adverse situation, was able to claim the Greek language and, likewise, the dignity of the Welsh as a people. The Bonaval came nationalists and Galeguists into franchise to honor the figures of the country there, as they continued to do in the autonomic drive. Bonaval came and assisted the autonomic governments to perform various acts. And also the writers and writers came to see in the Pantheon forgers of the country of language such as Uxio Novoneira or Manuel María. To surprising judicial judgment – with the Church we have met! that gave the Archbishop the property of the church of Bonaval cannot end this tradition and convert the building into a parish church, as if there were few in Santiago, please! where, once the rite schedule of the Catholic sect is established, you can already hire volunteer staff to monitor access. In the meantime, anyone who wants to visit has nothing but to ask for it. It seems that this is not the case, that there are many difficulties. It would be desirable that, if it becomes a parish church, the Archbishopician takes on the undeniable symbolic value and develops the cult of the rites of the sect only in the Greek language, which he will certainly not do. But also, apart from which he owns, we must unlock the situation of the pantheon, which should be guarded by the Parliament of Galicia. Then, ladies and gentlemen, create a patronage or similar organ of the pantheon, where, among other institutions, the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galician Council of Culture, the Museum of the Galician People, together with foundations such as the Rosalía de Castro, Brañas and Castelao, and people of various scientific backgrounds. One of the urgent tasks of this sponsor should be the drafting of a protocol regulation to establish the civic, artistic or scientific values that women and men can be in Bonnava. We are many, truly many, those who wish to go one day to Bonaval to enjoy a real pantheon of the memory of galeguity. The Joint Group will support this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u175	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u176	Good morning to all and to all. Since it could not be otherwise, Alternative Left-Galga will support this initiative. I'm not going to get into history, logically portrayed and well portrayed by the people who preceded me, and if I speak of what is an attitude – for us – of the contempt of the Council of Galicia, captained by Nuñez Feijóo. I despise because we know perfectly well that – if one takes the parliamentary hemerotheque – here in fact, a non-legislative proposal was introduced by the Galician Nationalist Block itself, in 2011, which had the negative vote of the PP and the abstention of the PSdEG because then it was justified that a bill sponsored by the Galician Council of Culture was on the horizon. I had the opportunity to read and analyze the justifying memory of the Galician Pantheon bill and, indeed, it contains absolutely the necessary elements to have at least something to discuss, about what to move forward, so that, in fact, the Galician Pantheon – what they called the Galician Pantheon, the Illustrian Galego Pantheon – becomes one of those symbols that has Galicia; a symbol that should appear in the Statute of Galician autonomy, where the flag, the shield and the anthem appear. Another one of those symbols should be the pantheon. Of course, the pantheon, as it is said perfectly in both the initiative and the bill brought here by the Galician Council of Culture, fulfills fundamental missions, and the first of them is to serve as a depositary and custodian of the collective memory of the Greek people. Moreover, on the other hand, it serves as an instrument of collective recognition and gratitude to the people who are honored in it for having stood out for their merits. On the other hand, the memory of these people and their deeds serves as a stimulus to the generations present to try to emulate and overcome the achievements of their ancestors. Therefore, the mission of this pantheon which should appear in the Galician Statute cannot be in the hands of the Church. He can't be in the Church's hands with our collective memory. That space – as it was said – began to be in its initial moment, in 1891, a lay space, a civil use space, a meeting space, although logically clothed by the religiousity of the moments it had at that time. But, of course, what is a heritage element that gathers together, that agglutine and that serves as a space for the memory of the Greek people must not, logically, be in the hands of the Church, which we know perfectly that it has carried out various processes of titration usurping public spaces throughout Galicia, and we cannot afford that, above all, usurp and carry out what is public heritage of all the Greeks and Greeks. We do not understand why the refusal and abstention were justified on the horizon, and that this bill itself, Núñez Feijóo, had expressed its support on 13 March 2012. We wondered what happens here, when it is said to be supported, how institutional advertising was supported, that a law, a bill would come to this Parliament, and it didn't come, so that Ramón Villares himself on January 5, 2014, in a radio interview, showed what he called between melancholy and sadness because the advisory reports...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u177	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u178	...of the Galician Council of Culture had not been taken into account, and above all he was saddened by the paralysis of the report and the bill on the Galician Pantheon. We therefore ask them to listen at least to the organs with which the Government of Galicia equips itself, to the organs which owns the culture of Galicia, to defend it. And, of course, we demand that the use of that space, which is all and all, be public, be secular and be civil and not logically in the hands of sectarian decisions and always censors of the Catholic Church. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u179	Thank you very much. Socialist Group, Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u180	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the key parts in President Feijóo's investment speech was precisely the promise that we would have in this Parliament a bill on the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres. Like many, many promises, of that investment speech, such as industrial politics, such as the defense of culture, such as public services and the improvement of its quality, like so many and so many things, they moved forward with the passage from time to time, like crabs, and gradually remained in words led by the wind that no one ever identifies. We as a Socialist Parliamentary Group have already been surprised that if we took this initiative as a government initiative and not as an institutional initiative, that is to say, of all; to propose a scenario for this Parliament, not through a bill but a bill of law, as it is said here, to propose also in its day the Council of Culture Gallega in that draft...; that through a concerted and previous dialogue we came to a stage of political confluence to meet a reality of an institutional nature. This is the parliamentary, sensible, consensus-seeking process, not what he says, and precisely the opposite: not to achieve that consensus and to cover one day and then to do what he wants. But in recent times, not only did this happen within the institutional framework, but I am no longer talking about the effective policy that a government must legitimately do, but about all the institutions of Galicia; they started elsewhere where the People's Party is ruling: first they cut powers, then they wanted to lower parliaments. In some, they have already achieved it, lowering the importance of the institutional bodies of the various entities that form autonomy, and in Galicia we do not do it through direct reforms, but we do it by letting things die; a very particular style of the right in the northwestern Spanish. I remember only a few facts that relate to institutional politics, not to partisan politics, with respect to the dignity of the Autonomous Community of Wales. Three years ago, a television law has been passed by this Parliament. We didn't know anything else, no group news. For two years now, practically the People's Valedor has been covered in transitoryly by the vicevalier. It seems that no one cares about this situation since the Government of Galicia. For two years now, the president of the Board of Auditors has passed away – allegedly charged with the law to cover the organ – and we're still waiting to hear about it. And since the investment speech, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the other groups in this House, we hope to know something about this announced bill. I want to remember that the situation in which the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres is located and that of San Domingos is well known. He was expropriated on his day by Mendizábal, he was entitled to the Town Council of Compostela, and it was precisely a demand submitted by the Archbishop – especially by an archbishop who has problems with square meters, even in those who want to retire; he needs 300 in order to be able to retire in Madrid – to which he actually earned a price before the Supreme Court, claiming, among other things – and I quote elements that are in those cars – that the church was not conventional, that he had his own life distinct from the San Domingos convent, and proof of this was the annual Mass that was given in favour of Castro's Rosaly. It's legitimate to use almost everything as a right to defend, but at least they should be able to confess this small legal argument to see if someone higher forgives her. And that was the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u181	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u182	...–Yes, even if they're left, of my time, forty-seven seconds, President, I'm going to take advantage of it–...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u183	No, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u184	Thank you. And that's the situation we're in. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has always had the will to resolve institutional problems and issues in an institutional way, and that is why the first time this was proposed as a bill and we abstained on our vote. But today we consider that we are not in a position to continue waiting for what is not likely to happen, and therefore, as this initiative proposes, to initiate a procedure not of expropriation [...] but, as it has been specified very well, of expropriation of use, and we believe that this is a way of reaching agreements with the Church's holders and, therefore, of having a door to open a negotiation process, we will support this initiative so that at that time there also exists the possibility of convening parliamentary groups and telling us what other proposals it may have. We'll also be open to these kinds of solutions; what we don't want is to keep passing the legislation, as it is happening, and that in the meantime the institutions of Galicia – and this is one, even if it's symbolic – will delight day by day as if no one had done anything in relation to them. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u185	Thank you, Mr. Caamaño. Popular Group, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. It's true that all peoples need symbols as a preservation element of their identity. We're talking about San Domingos de Bonaval and, as Mr. Ron pointed out, this is a space that is becoming a kind of symbol of Galicia, as specifically requested by Professors Barreiro Fernández and Ramon Villares. We believe that speaking of Bonaval starting from confrontation and exclusion, as some spokesmen have done here, from distraction, as others have done, does not help to set up their concept as an element of integration and collective meaning that must have symbols. That is why we are going to address the issue by speaking prudently, speaking from the point of view and seeking, from this proposal, the necessary consensus of all the groups of the House. It is not possible to reproduce the history of San Domingos de Bonaval in this short time that we have, although I am allowed to make a clarification: it is not true that it was always a lay space and that all who are buried there are because it was a lay space. The lack of worship should not be confused with laity, and in addition some of those who are buried there did have a deep Christian faith. The question is to resolve the situation, and to solve the situation, we must start with the present moment, which is determined by that judgement of the Supreme Court which grants the title to the Catholic Church. The sentence may be unusual or not, it may agree with it or not, but it does create a reality of iure and indeed that it is absolutely unsolicited and that it has to become the starting point for the solution of the problem. What the Nationalist Block proposes to us in its initiative is to go to the expropriation of that space. Well, we understand that San Domingos de Bonaval must be a space for integration, dignity and respect; a space for showing sensitivity to Galicia's history and the simple figures of Galicia that are buried there. So an open space for everyone, whether secular or not, whether Christian or not. For that reason, we believe that if there is a need for consensus around something that tends to become a symbol of Galicia, we believe that the proper way to seek consensus is not the formula of exclusion proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block, but rather to seek consensus around the draft law drafted by the Council of Culture with intervention from the Museum of the Galician People, the Royal Galaga Academy and the foundations of Brañas, Rosalía and Castelao; a project with which, by course, in previous debates on this same subject, it was also shown by the Socialist Party through the mouth of its Member Mr. Cervinho, what happens is that with the Socialist Party never knows when he goes, you never know when he comes and you never know where he is. We do not participate in the idea of expropriation, because it seems to us, firstly, a complex process, which returns us to times of long confrontation, probably of unpredictable result, and also because we believe that a space that must be of union and meeting can hardly be born to break the consensus of confrontation and struggle. We believe that more important than title is the availability of space for the social community of the Greeks and the Greeks for the honor of their history; by the way, it occurs in other places: there are the Invalids, Westminster or the Church of the Holy Cross, without any particular problems in that regard. We do not believe that the Catholic Church should be excluded from solving the problem, first of all, because it is the holder of space; secondly, because no one can hide or hide the enormous transcendence and representation of the Church in the history of Galicia. We support consensus on the proposal of the Council for Culture, which can be killed, improved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u187	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u188	...and, logically, studied and addressed in various ways, Mr. Caamaño, but we defend that it is the most appropriate solution, firstly, because part of the consensus and overcoming, and, secondly, because it allows to solve the problem of the current space and the consideration of secularity through the creation of a plural space, which, on the one hand, covers the part where the people who are buried today in San Domingos de Bonaval, but on the other hand, allows to create an absolutely secular space attached to that pantheon. And also because it allows to solve the problem of using the pantheon by creating a space of consensus through the guardianship of the Council of Culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u190	...but dependent on a patronage of Parliament and thus integrating the Council of Culture, Parliament, the Council of Galicia, the Council of Santiago and civil society. That's why we can't support the Galician Nationalist Block initiative because it's against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u192	... what the Council of Culture itself proposes, but if we advocate for consensus, we offer it and take the floor of Mr Ron and his group to seek that consensus – I don't say it has to be exactly the way it is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u194	...in the proposal of the Council of Culture – and in that offer of consensus we will not meet in the struggle, exclusion and confrontation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u195	The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. I begin by thanking the groups for their support for this initiative and for regretting that the People's Party will never have the will to solve any problems and that it will come to debate even distorting the proposals we make. We here today are talking about expropriating, legally possible, economically viable use and, of course, a demonstration of will for solving a problem that exists. What does the People's Party tell us? They don't want to do anything because we're talking about exclusion. Look, we recently saw a headline on November 15, 2013: "The Board threatens to expropriate the use of all uncultivated farms." I mean, this is something legally possible, and even the Galician Board in other types of cases did mention this type of instrument because it depends on the public interest. So let's not demonize figures that are in our legal order. And, I mean, we deliberately talk about use and not ownership, and here there's no will or even protection over the remains that are there. And that's why there's a debate that we've had here on other occasions, and I think it's best to lie down and put things straight, as we've already done. There's a proposal that is to create the Galician Pantheon, which is not a solution to the situation that currently has the Galegos Illustres Pantheon, and what that proposal tells us is that you look for a space in Santiago de Compostela to put on plates. Since the BNG we have doubts that the problem of this country is, at the cultural level, having a place to put plates. We think there are other cultural emergencies. But now, well, do you want to talk about the title of the Illustrious Galician Pantheon, yes or no? Does it worry them whether or not that space, which is a space that in our collective imagination, despite all the pitfalls that exist, is a singular space, a symbol of this country, where some of the most important personalities are represented, including Castro Rosaly, including Castro Rosaly, founder of our contemporary literature, our most universal writer, whether they are of public protection or want to continue to praise him for what the Catholic Church decides? It is clear that it is true that you never have the will to solve anything and that you are absolutely comfortable and comfortable with this situation, because you do not care about this country, its symbols, its language or its culture, because we have brought many initiatives to this Parliament of different content and have always voted against. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, just as a quote that I believe is true today in this Parliament, the words that you have devoted Curros to Castro's Rosaly in a poem – of which I will read only one part – that says: "The value, the character, the ideas,/ the speech, the custom... are "goldened candles"/, what will it be like! the allies /which make us read to thighs and pancakes?/ More Rosalía sleeps while long/ in souls mingle faith and doubt grows./ Who knows if, from this holy enclosure,/ will not remain stone tomorrow!/ Who knows if this tomb, on that day/ will become, after war companies,/ table of Yankee merceries/ or manger of Japanese beasts". It's clear what the end is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Most popular of Galicia, about the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the sanitation network and the clean-up systems of the municipalities that pour into the river of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u198	Amendments to this proposal have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u199	You have the floor, to formulate it, Mr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u200	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. One honourable Member once called for my presence here on this stage, and I was in need of courage. It's not a lack of courage. In the People's Group we are 41 Members, Your Honor, and we have to share our work. What am I gonna do to him! [[Laughter]] Very good morning. The Pontevedra River in 2001 was declared a sensitive area. This protection figure imposes, in addition to the conditioners established on the quality of the discharges to the rivers, a special control of the nutrients that can reach from their backs. What does that translate into? It turns out that this area, which has additional limitations to that of a normal area, is subject to special control by the competent administrations and by the European Union itself. In addition, it should be taken into account that there are five marine production zones (GAL polygons) classified by Intemar with the letter B, indicative of the microbiological quality of the waters for mollusc farming. To improve or even maintain that classification that allows the extraction of shellfish undoubtedly implies no strict limitations, also on the microbiological load that reaches the creek. These higher restrictions therefore lead to a higher risk of non-compliance, so competent administrations must take on a greater challenge in terms of sanitation and purification. In 2006, the Galician Union and the local government of Pontevedra agreed that the operation of EDAR de Praceres, which serves the municipalities of Pontevedra, Marín, part of Poio and also part of Vilaboa, would become economically and technically dependent on the autonomous administration. At that time Galician waters begin to participate in the management of part of the sanitation system of these municipalities. This EDAR dates back to its oldest part of the year 1990, and, despite several works of improvement, it must be said that its operation is not currently efficient. The main reason for the plant's lack of efficiency lies in the important approach to clean water coming from the networks to the sanitation system, networks that manage the municipalities. The precarious state of these networks, whose main elements date from more than 20 years ago, motivates the tails arriving at EDAR to be disproportionately high. These are, therefore, old networks, which have not been renewed with due periodicity, in which no control is carried out in the management of tails and which also present large infiltrations of clean water. This situation presents two main problems: firstly, that the current EDAR cannot adequately treat waste water, since its treatments are designed to receive higher concentrations of contamination and lower flow. To this we must combine the high quality requirements that demand the Pontevedra network, for being declared a sensitive area, as I previously commented. Second, the aged debugger requires enhanced performances that cannot be projected or designed in view of current approaches. They must therefore be projected with input data from an efficient network, which is not currently in good condition, to maximize the effectiveness of the investment in EDAR and reduce operating costs. I mean, the problem is we're saturating a debugger that gets water that doesn't need to be treated, because in many cases clean water mixed with faecous water, and this ultimately impairs the result of debugging. Both problems point to the realization of a necessary diagnosis of sanitation networks from which concrete actions are proposed for improvement. The Galician Union in this field I think it has an experience to offer, acquired other studies of similar plans, such as, for example, the Local Sanitation Plan of the Arousa River or the Burgo River, so as to be able to collaborate with the municipalities of the sanitation system of Pontevedra, Marín, Poio and Vilaboa in the diagnosis and planning of improvement actions that avoid spills undisturbed to the slopes and to the river itself and allow the design of the extension and improvement of the EDAR of Pleasures. The task of maintaining and renewing the network is not the competence of the Union, but it is the competence of local authorities, so the Galician Waters cannot study the municipal network without the consent and collaboration of local governments. Hence the reason for this non-law proposal that we bring here today, which calls for the Galician Union to start working on solutions; but for that, it needs the collaboration and involvement of the municipalities to provide information on the state of their networks. However, the offer of collaboration by the Galician Union, based on the urgency of acting in the sanitation of the river, should not entail a further misunderstanding on the part of the municipalities of its competences, which, in the exercise of those powers, can be financed by the fees, as they are financing, for the maintenance of the service. The most resounding case is that of the Pontevedra Town Hall, which, since the Junta assumed the exploitation of the debugger in 2006, has entered more than 25 million euros – 25 million euros! – with which that administration could well have renewed to date more than 100 kilometers of urban collectors. It is also relevant to the fact that Pontevedra is the only great city in Galicia that needs the technical and economic collaboration of the Union in order to carry out its skills in debugging; something hard to understand in a county with nearly 70 million euros of budget. And in the same way, with regard to Poio, about half of its population is also connected to the Praceres debugger, so its waste water must also be taken into account in this study, and its networks too, and the rest of the Poio Town Hall simply does not treat its waste water because it cannot have any debugger in its municipal term and because it is technically inadmissible to connect this part of the population to the Pontevedra and Marin Network system. To solve this serious situation, Junta, as the Poio Town Hall knows, has prepared the projects to be able to execute an EDAR that treats the waters of the currently disconnected Poio Population. It is now the Town Hall, or should be the Town Hall, the holder of the hydraulic infrastructures of its municipal term, who must make available to Galician Waters the land necessary for the execution of these works. And you can't play with the future of a whole creek, with the future of thousands of people who live from shellfish, from tourism, who are concerned, who propose solutions and who only find municipalities that do not assume their competences, who look elsewhere and who don't work with the responsibility that demands the sanitation of the stream. We must work with responsibility, seek solutions, assume challenges and seek funding necessary to carry them out. Ladies and gentlemen, to govern is to make decisions, and the new operational period of European funds 2014-2020 is the last opportunity to completely resolve the sanitation of the Pontevedra River. We all have to be aware of this, and the administrations involved have to work together for this. The Socialist Party has tabled an amendment calling on the Government of Greece to ensure that before the end of 2015, comprehensive sanitation of the Pontevedra River will be carried out, providing immediate solutions for the purification of all the municipalities to be found in it. It is worth asking why they do not ask directly to completely heal the rhino in the first half of the year 2015 – because we are! – because the difficulty of doing so before the end of 2015, of doing it in three months, is simply the same. It is totally impossible, and I think the Socialist Party is or should be aware of this difficulty. So here's what's important and relevant is that the municipalities of Poio and Pontevedra have not contributed their lands to make these debuggers. It is therefore a request that the Socialist Party knows that it is impossible to comply with. And as for the sanitation of the river, ladies and gentlemen, this is in situ, implicit in this initiative, but to determine what is to be done for the sanitation of the river, I think the logic, first, is to study and find out what situations the municipal networks are in. Hence the meaning of this LNP. And the Galego Nationalist Block presents an addition amendment that proposes to address immediately the problems of the capacity and functioning of the EDAR of Pleasures. Well, that's what we are, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we are, but first we have to do a previous study. They also request to perform the works committed to the sanitation of the river Gafos. Well, this is very simple: with the Pontevedra Town Hall doing good a project, funding has been there for the Galician Union for more than two or three years. And the problem is not that there are no resources, but that you can't make a project. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, they also call for the effective compliance of the convention signed with the Marin Town Hall. It's already being done. The agreement is being executed. Marin has to say it's the only county that's doing homework. We asked what the alternative is, since they propose to modify that agreement with the Marin Town Hall, but they don't say how they want to install the new collector. And they also ask to start EDAR de Raxó where it is considered more appropriate, according to technical requirements, with dialogue and consensus with the municipal authorities and the affected neighborhood. I think in the Galician Nationalist Block, they're real jugglers. And what's the nearest place?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u201	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u202	...because Sanxenxo's BNG disagrees; Poio's BNG, yes. So I wonder what's the most suitable place for the BNG. And now you're going to ask me, what's the BNG, what's the BNG of Parliament, for the BNG of Poio, for the BNG of Sanxenxo? [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the speech of the BNG is "one and the sleigh", and it keeps a very little - very little - attuned. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we call for support for this initiative to allow us to define the actions, with the ultimate aim of what I believe we all agree: the ultimate aim is to achieve the comprehensive sanitation of the Pontevedra River. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u203	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think it's the fourteen zero two minutes, and I think we can launch the election campaign of the People's Party and the exit gun for the PP candidate. Noraboa!, you did here an intervention which, of course, I hope the People's Party will continue for a long time in the opposition in Pontevedra. [[Murmurs.]] Relax, we're in Parliament, and we can... as long as we don't get censored from the Bureau, we can express ourselves... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u205	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u206	We're talking about a very serious subject, so I'm surprised at the frivolity you come here to talk about the situation of Pontevedra's river. Today we're not going to talk about the pollution problem caused by a company, which the People's Party clearly wants to consolidate there, as is Ence, which is a serious environmental problem, but we're going to talk about the problems of purification and sanitation. And we do this after there is a threat that there will be a sanction on the part of the European Union for the problem of pollution from this stream, we do so after the PP voted against cleansing and sanitation measures in this Parliament – not only in these plenary sessions, but, for example, in the debate of amendments, where we have been claiming funds to clean up and cleanse the rivers – and with an initiative that is really of a very significant reach. I don't know if your lordships could see that, in the face of a serious problem of pollution, of worsening the water quality of the river, recognized by Galician waters themselves, the PP suggests that we study the sanitation and purification systems of Pontevedra river, because there seems to be a problem, and that Galician waters do not know how sanitation is in the municipalities – just told us the spokesperson of Pontevedra and Poio. What a coincidence, it's here that they're opposed to the municipal governments of the BNG! In fact, let me tell you, I find it somewhat irresponsible that, in the face of a situation of this gravity, the People's Party, which is ruling in the Galician Union, which has direct competence in this matter, comes here throwing balloons out, which is what you did, and above all telling us that the problem is a study. I wonder: how did it then, Galician waters the Galician hydrological plan, which is at this moment in its processing phase? They make plans without studying? Do you spend a lot of euros making that kind of plan and don't you know what's going on in the river? I also ask Mr. Moreira how is it possible, then, that, for example, in the process and documentation in the Marin Town Hall, in relation to that action that is going to be done on sanitation, appears that Galician Waters has a study about all the problem in the Praceres debugger and all the problem that has the marine sanitation network and that suddenly the problem is to study and study and study more the situation? By the way, a study that is not easy and that Galician Waters has been kidnapped doesn't know why. Maybe it's because it points out that there's a big problem and a big irresponsibility on the part of the Galician Union in relation to its sanitation. We actually say: do you want to study? Study. But we have to do something more than study. We have to act, because right now we have problems and there are direct responsibilities for the Galician Union. Look, to come here to say that in the Town Hall of Pontevedra they can't run a sanitation project, when it must be one of the most sanitation municipalities it has, it's an absolute ridicule to the City Hall's own technicians and techniques, which I also suppose you will respect, no matter how much there is a government that, by decision of the people of Pontevedra, has a mayor of the Galego Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] I imagine that we'll be able to get there and that this will give us the measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u207	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u208	...the lack of rigor and seriousness with which you assume this subject. It is clear that what the People's Party does not want is to act and that we are still in disrepair in relation to the situation that our laughter is at the moment. Look, Pontevedra's creek has a very serious problem with cleaning and sanitation. There are hundreds of jobs that are being lost because of the irresponsibility of the People's Party, who has the skills in debugging. By the way, the sanitation canon covers the municipalities, but I think it manages Galician waters. So ask your government to meet the commitments it has and don't come here to make flowers that, in any case, are only for press headlines but that don't solve the underlying problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u209	Thank you very much. Socialist Group, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u210	Thank you, President. Good day again. The initiative presented by the People's Party Member has a number of phrases, a number of texts, which we consider to be correct. We agree – because they are purely obvious – about the situation of the river Pontevedra. We would all agree until you say that it is necessary that, in order to achieve the effective sanitation of the river, a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the problems at the local level is necessary in order to achieve the existing sanitation and purification network. With regard to this previous analysis, we do not agree at all, and there are several reasons why we do not agree. First, because this initiative is clearly electoralist, a Member who is a candidate for mayor, who in December voted against the cleansing of the river and who now comes with an initiative, in February, calling for the healing of the river. It doesn't seem serious to us; at least, it's not serious, because laughter has been a sensitive zone since 2001, actually, and since 2001 the People's Party – if I'm not mistaken – has been ruling in Galicia for almost ten years. That means that for fourteen years this EDAR in Praceres is not efficient. But since 2006, the management of the Praceres Debugger is from Galician Waters; therefore, responsibility of the Galician Union. You just said here that lately it doesn't work properly, which means that some responsibility you will have, that it won't be the responsibility of the others. Also because in 2008 there were all the planned and bided debuggers, except two, and one, curiously, was that of Poio Sanxexo. Not only do you see part of Poio in the river Pontevedra, in the EDAR of Praceres, but you also see part of Sanxenxo in the EDAR of Praceres and therefore the river of Pontevedra; and today they are still waiting for the settlement of the People's Party. You guys have to do this is the debugger for Poio and Sanxenxo. And it is not true that there are projects, because this honourable Member was in the waters of Galicia, he asked us in writing, and the only project about the EDAR of Poio Sanxenxo is the project that he did one of our Members at the moment when he was an environmental adviser. It's the only project about the debugger, about EDAR, for Poio and Sanxenxo; there's no more. You mind going to Galician Waters and looking at it before you come here to say things that aren't right. Also because in 2009, the former environmental adviser of the People's Party said that, as the Socialist Party had done so badly, it was necessary to check all the inheritance that came from the two-party Government, and that just at that time, six years ago, it was the turn to clean up and cleanse the rivers of Greece. So six years later we're the same: there's no check, obviously we have to ask for that pre-analysis again. And now comes a deputy, candidate for the mayor of Pontevedra, and asks for that thorough analysis. Again, six years without a check and we'll ask again. At least it's not serious. In addition, just when the MEPs came to visit the Pontevedra River, a pro-Ponto-grey MEP came, Mr. Millán Mon, but he did not come to Pontevedra River because, curiously, he should not have given it priority. For you, it's a priority, but for Millan Mon, it's not a priority. Well, it's also, at least, quite surprising. In addition, last Thursday of last week in this House, in Commission 2nd – where you were not – the president of the Galician Waters expressly said that the Board has done "great studies for the local stream sanitation plan, and that the river Pontevedra will have a special situation within the Feder 2014-2020" – Beijing quotes – funds. That means there's no need to sink into any great study because it's already done, and that's concrete words from the president of the waters of Galicia. It's not the city hall's fault. It's not serious to come here and put the blame on the municipalities, mainly because, in any case, the Sanxenxo Town Hall – which also partly sees the river Pontevedra – here is not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u211	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u212	And you blame everyone but this one. They stop asking for studies that would already have to exist – and if they don't exist, responsibility is theirs – and they start ruling. That's why we ask them to make a real commitment to our amendment. They start ruling and don't blame all the municipalities that pour into Pontevedra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u213	Thank you very much. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u214	Thank you very much. Good morning again. This is one of those People's Party initiatives that, if you don't know that your architects are adults and educated people, you might think that your authorship corresponds to someone who lacks the slightest decor and knowledge of the matter to deal with. On the other day, Mr Rueda inflated a parliamentarian with the expression "has more expensive than a piano", which consisted of not being offensive, according to the opinion of the President of Parliament. Well, PP gentlemen and ladies, you have more face than a piano. You bring this initiative, very publicized by the media subsidized by the Government, so that they try to "notition" all of the genius of parliament if it happens to them. [[Applause]] You bring this initiative – I repeat – in which they say absolutely nothing, nothing at all, to solve the terrible environmental problem of the Pontevedra River, after you have rejected – as the previous parliamentarian has well said – not much a similar initiative of another parliamentary group. Of course, the electoral period begins, the electoral machinery needs to be put in place, with the help of the media. It is simply that there is no concrete action to be taken in response to the European Union's proposal for sanctions which denounces the poor sanitation of the river in the Bueu-Marín axis, Pontevedra-Poio; a proposal contained in a report to be heard last December. Galicia received more than EUR 25,000 million from European funds for the supposed purpose of real stream sanitation. But reality doesn't like anything about the European Union, because that reality shows an undue management of such funds, translated into an unstoppable increase in river pollution, as the report says. The construction of unitary networks that contaminate river waters and therefore streams, mixing them with residual water; a set of defective, when not inoperative; the absence of interconnections that allow the transvasion of contaminated water from one debugger to the other in the event of damage; the total absence of industrial water pre-purification; the failure to maintain general networks; the errors in the installation of collectors; and the failures in pumps do not seem suitable ways to achieve any improvement. The source of this intent is, according to the Government, in the non-existent – silent prayer, please –... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u215	Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u216	It's just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, you follow, what am I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u218	It's just that I'm not left. They're in there interrupting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u219	Well... No, sorry... you concentrate on what you're saying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u220	...but relentless privatization of sanitation and water supply, which causes the municipalities and the Public Administration to disagree with their obligations and concessionary companies to engage in their contracts in the construction of infrastructures and pipelines or even in the operation of purification phases, for example, the bacteriological tertiary treatment installed with public funds by the Galician Union itself at the Cangas EDAR. The economic criteria that mark the private company translate into failures of investment in maintenance and inoperability on time of pumping and sewage purification systems. To all this we must add the grave environmental impact of works done improperly or negligently to save money in pipes and pumping systems, and also, of course, the irresponsible, irresponsible and frenzy urban speculation, without respecting the Law of Costs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u221	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u222	...and designed above demographic forecasts. Well, I'll have to finish tomorrow. I don't have time, do I?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u223	No, he's got a little left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u224	Well, I want to finish by saying that tomorrow I'm sure he'll be out in the media for the government, for the subsidized media, that the PP initiative has been adopted, but he won't count on the votes of the Joint Group. Thank you very much. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u226	Good morning to all and to all. One sometimes learns things in this Parliament. Of course, I wasn't leaving my astonishment when yesterday, in the State Gazette, there were those things that children had to learn about in religion, something absolutely amazing that shouldn't be in a newsletter. He said, for example, that the meeting with the resurrected should be valued. That's a truth; here the PP wants Pontevedra's citizenship to find the resurrected, Mr. Moreira, who comes to this House to take our hair off, and apart from failing to comply with two other commandments that say that bulletin. The commandment says, "... distinguishing which authority is in the service of truth." So you can't come here and lie if you refuse that subject that the People's Party defends. Because you think about something: that we have to do a study to see the needs for the sanitation of the Pontevedra River. How is it possible that, if there is no such study and we do not know these needs, in August 2011 they promised that in 2015 the river of Pontevedra would be healed? Not just that. They said they were going to charge this with EUR 850 million. Where are they? What did they do? How is it possible that you come here to present this initiative when in August 2011 they said that in 2015 it would be solved and that they would put over table 850 million euros? Besides, a party that puts those religious teachings in the newsletter should be faithful to the truth and therefore know what the problem is with Pontevedra's laugh. The problem with Pontevedra's creek is sanitation or the continuing aggressions about the laugh that are being welcomed by the People's Party? Is there nothing wrong with the environmental aggressions of industries? Is there nothing wrong with dozens of judgments against and, for example, with the judgment of the port of Marín? Is nothing wrong with the sentence that says the location of the Praceres debugger is illegal? Is there nothing wrong with all the rulings that are responsible, among others, for the People's Party? It just seems like you want to take our hair off! How can you come here to propose an initiative that, by the way, says nothing about what you've been doing since this atrium? You talked about anything but what the initiative says. The initiative is as insular as saying that a study must be done and that we will see what we must do after that study. We have it clear; what we have to do is take seriously the healing of the rivers, what we have to do is not have a short-sighted view of the situation of the rivers and what we have to do is invest where we have to invest. Tens, hundreds of millions of euros have arrived in this country for the comprehensive sanitation of the rivers as a whole. Today, all we have is the most serious penalty we will have from the European Union for the situation of rivers. But aside from that, you're obvious to reality, tell me there are some B areas in the Pontevedra creek. What about Zones C? Don't you know there are C shellfish areas? Don't you know that 40 percent of the jobs in the Marqueo have been lost in the Pontevedra River? Don't you know him? Whose responsibility is that? Who has practically ruled the entire democratic stage in Galicia? Whose legal responsibility is river control? Who has these skills? The Galician Union. You were unable to make at least one effort to clean up the creeks. And we give him a way out: what they have to do is a real waste treatment. The first thing you should know is that two out of three debuggers in Galicia are acting poorly; what you need to know is that 60% of the waste produced in the Galician rivers does not reach any debugger. So that's where we have to act. But not only do you act on that, but you allow brute assaults to the stream. How do you understand that you tell me here that we have to act on the sanitation of the river Pontevedra and the waters of Galicia authorized the full discharge of the collectors of EDAR a month ago to the river of Pontevedra? Just to solve a problem and a breakdown in the emissary, you've allowed all those quantities of waste to be thrown directly into the Pontevedra creek, and nothing happened, it turns out there's no responsibility. Does it turn out that no one is going to compensate the Marishers who lost significant amounts of business because of that political decision? Someone will have to explain to me how these real acts of direct aggression are compatible with the political decisions of the People's Party to the Pontevedra River with this insular proposal. The truth is, as a proposed sanitation was worth little by little his intervention, but as a candidate's rally was worth less. And, of course, that makes Mr. Feijóo say, when he introduced the candidates of Ourense and Vigo, who put the best candidates. He didn't say anything about Pontevedra. Talk to him at least because it seems that the president doesn't consider him a good candidate for Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u227	Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group which is the author of the non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well the reality of Pontevedra; I know many neighbors, many of whom live less than two kilometres from the centre of Pontevedra and have no sanitation; they are on the edge of a national road and have no sanitation; they have septic pits, and in summer they overflow the septic pits in front of their houses. I know the reality well. I would invite you to know the reality of these neighbors, who pay taxes like the ones else, but who have no basic services. They're basic services and they don't have them. How are the local networks? Well, I guess a county should know how their local networks are. This is about this initiative; if you are not informed, you cannot do a study or a diagnosis. Even the Pontevedra Town Hall doesn't seem to know, because it had a million euros, and it still has a million euros from Galician Union on the table to make a project. It turns out they do a project that contemplates unreal tails, far below the superiors, the real ones, because, when it rains, they mix rains and faeces and the debugger doesn't provide enough. That's the reality of the debugger. The debugger doesn't go as bad as it seems, the problem is what is sent to the debugger, that no rain and no faeces are separated. So this is about doing a study and looking at separating all that. The Town Hall of Pontevedra made a wrong project that had to be put down. We had to solve a contract that had already been helped to do so, and still today we need to see if this project is soon to be completed and well done and the million euros are still waiting for the Council of Pontevedra. The technicians clearly are good; the technicians are good; what happens is that the technicians are politically misdirected. That's the reality of the Pontevedra Town Hall, gentlemen. And the Pontevedra Town Hall, apart from all network licenses, has 45 points of dumping that are not authorized to the basins, rivers and the river of Pontevedra. That's the reality, not me, but it's documented in a technical study by Galician Waters that you have at your disposal, as I had at my disposal that report. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to forget neither the millions of euros that have invested the Galician Union in doing, in giving the Pontevedra Town Hall what the Pontevedra Town Hall has to do, because it's its competition, which is doing local sanitation, the sanitation network, and there are already two agreements with an investment that exceeds 11 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, when a hospital or a medical center gets a sick person, I think the logic and first thing is for the faculty to diagnose what's happening to that sick person so they can then adopt the solution. You're the optional ones here, but you don't want to study to see what the sanitation network in Pontevedra and Poio has; that's how hard it is to find a solution. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, none of the opposition parties have the slightest interest in healing Pontevedra's river. I'm sorry, what I hope is that they realize that we have the last chance that... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u229	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u230	...the European Union's 14-20 Funds, and that we should work together to solve this. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u231	Let's move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We began with the first of the proposals, which is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña, who has already said that she did not accept the amendment of the Left Galician Alternative. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez and three other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union in the field of employment and support for working women. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 23 votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u232	We are voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Santalices, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the approval of the public job offer corresponding to the 2015 financial year. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 26; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u233	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on behalf of Mrs Solla, which I believe accepts the amendment of the Joint Group. There is a request from the parliamentary voting group by points. Do you not accept the point of vote? We therefore voted on the initiative with the amendment of the Joint Group. [[Refusal.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of paralysis in which the works are found in the residence of older people of Caranza, in Ferrol. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u234	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which has tabled an amendment from the People's Group, which I believe does not accept. We therefore vote on the proposal. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the action that must be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with any project to build a waste management and treatment plant in the municipality of Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 50; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u235	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, who I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the suspension of the project called Autovía A-57. Tramo: Vilaboa-A Hermida The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 9; votes against, 64. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u236	We voted in favour of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Martínez, who said that she accepted the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Socialist Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the health concert signed by Sergas with Povervisa and the measures of termination of employment provided for by the Directorate of the Centre. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u237	We voted on the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the title and civil use of the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres, as well as to disseminate its history, meaning and relevance as a heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u238	Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the performance that the Government of Greece must perform in relation to the sanitation network and the clean-up systems of the municipalities that pour into the river of Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 25; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u239	Once the non-law proposals have been adopted, we continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5, of interpellations. I just want to comment on a subject. Do you want the word, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to comment on it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u240	Madam President, this group, according to the Government, and for the sake of survival, calls for the postponement of its inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u242	To request, since the only remaining debate is two interpellations and the questions to the Government, and for this House's debates to go beyond society, the two remaining interpellations to take place in the afternoon. The counsellor has to come in the afternoon because he has questions in the afternoon. You've been aware of the agenda for this plenary session since last Tuesday's Meeting of Spokespersons. With which, I think I'd have time to examine the questions. So, I make that request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u244	...if we really want this Parliament not to be a closed box and have the debates really connected with the sensitivity of society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u245	Mr. Jorquera, I thank you for helping me to manage the whole day's order, but I am very surprised at this approach, which I think is the first time I hear it. I understand that, according to the forecasts we have in full, we will continue at this time with the interpellation, which is that of the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, in particular that of its group, at the initiative of Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. We're going to do it now because I think it's a good time and the advisor is here too. Da Ana Belén's interrogation Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the latest data published by the Instituto Galego de Statística in relation to the use of the Galician language and the planned actions in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u246	You have the floor, to formulate your plea, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo plays a recording through her mobile phone.]] Mrs. Pontón, please... Mrs. Pontón, the forum is to speak, but it's not to listen to music or videos or tapes or anything. So, then, I'd appreciate it if you could close your cell phone and please... your time is up. So you'll see for yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u247	Madam President, this is neither a tape nor a song, it's the SOS that theoretically launched the Titanic on the day of its sinking. A SOS, ladies and gentlemen, we reproduce here today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u248	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u249	Even if it's funny to you, we reproduce it here as a symbol of the SOS that is launching the Welsh language, which is really in a dramatic situation. I regret that the President would rather eat than attend a debate on one of the central issues of this country... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u250	Quiet, please. Mrs. Pontón, continue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u251	I'd ask them not to get nervous. If we are in this House, I believe that one of the President's obligations is, apart from coming to vote, to be in the debates that are transcendent to the future of this country. They should remind you that the Government has to attend the sessions of this Parliament, especially when we are talking about something so relevant to us, the Greeks and the Greeks, that we have a language of our own that is in the worst situation in their history. [[Applause]] We are the only language in the Spanish state that loses speakers. I don't know if this, ladies and gentlemen, makes them reflect. I don't know if this causes the new advisor some kind of negative feeling or it's going to be installed in that absolutely unreal speech that nothing happens and that the Galician Union is already doing everything it has to do. I'm going to read to you, Counsellor, if the murmuring allows you, the data and valuations that the Galego Institute of Statistics literally makes in relation to the use of Welsh. Usual use. In 2003 31.2% of the Welsh people usually speak in English. This percentage is very similar to that of 2008, but 12 points below that of ten years ago. The percentage of the population that speaks German more than Spanish has decreased by 6.44 points compared to 2008, to 20.29%. More than 26% of Galician residents always speak in Spanish, 6 percentage points more than in 2008. The use of Greek is unequal depending on the population's age. Among boys and girls from 5 to 14 years old, 13.20% usually speaks in English, 11% more in Greek than in Spanish and 74.88% still uses Spanish or more Spanish than in Greek. And finally, and I think that this data should concern you, Counsellor, in 2003, among the population under fifteen, the percentage of those who know how to speak little or nothing in Greek increases to 22.70%. These, Counselor, are the data that tell us that there is no equality for the Greek language. In fact, the Galego Institute of Statistics says that among the population under fifteen, the percentage of those who know how to speak little or nothing in German is rising to 22.70% in our country. I mean, we have a part of our youth that doesn't dominate the Greek language, so it's a fallacy to be able to speak equality when really in this country what is happening, as a result of policies that have been applied in recent years, is that a part of the population doesn't know Galicia's own language. I don't know, Counselor, if you're going to continue to lie that nothing happens here at all and that the Galician Union has no responsibility at all. We have asked you, Counsellor, if you consider that laminating Welsh in child education has no consequences; if you consider removing the requirement of knowledge of Greek in order to be able to access the public service and, therefore, respect the right to be treated in Greek has no consequences; if you consider that you withdraw all the real support to which there are written in the Greek language has no consequences; if you consider that disdain or blatant discrimination, evident and recognized by the Greek in justice, from Greek in health, from Greek in the field of new technologies, has no consequences for the normalization process. Indeed, Counsellor, since the BNG we have the conviction that you are aware that you are missing the truth when they say that the situation is good and that the policy that led before the Board of Galicia has no consequences, that this is an individual problem, because you know that there are many areas at the social level, in which there is a clear mandate of action, that the Board of Galicia has the possibility to do so and that it has not done anything. Can you answer us, Counsellor, how do you appreciate that for all these years not one of the measures contained in that General Linguistic Standardisation Plan which you have approved and voted unanimously for this Parliament has been implemented? That ten years after his approval, many of the measures that are there remain to be monitored is the biggest accusation that what had to be done in that area was not done. Can you claim that what the Government of the People's Party has done in the field of teaching with that decree of shame, with that decree against the Greek that prohibits the teaching of certain subjects in our language, has nothing to do with those data that a part of our people cannot speak fluently in our language? What is your evaluation of this situation? They would like to know that you understand the Counselor that it is to be able to live in Greek and respect the rights of the Greek and the Greek speakers. We believe, of course, that there is a very important area of action in which we are not acting, for example with regard to our toponyms, in respect of those aspects which are central to the fulfilment of what is said by the applicable legality and for the fulfilment of that mandate established in the statute itself, in the Law of linguistic normalization itself, that we must overcome the discrimination and marginalization of Greek in many social areas. You tell us that your main weapon is now the persuasion, and we ask you what you think the results of this tactic will be. We have, of course, a lamentable balance regarding the situation of language. They didn't even improve the legal framework, despite the fact that we've spent thirty years with a law that has many shortcomings, nor did they apply the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization that you – the People's Party – have promoted and approved unanimously in this Parliament, and the only thing they've dedicated is to putting obstacles and poles on the wheels to the scarce and small situation and to the few policies of linguistic normalization that had taken place. We, Counselor, believe that there really is a dramatic situation right now for the future of our language. We also understand that this is not an individual problem, and that there is a very important scope of action where you should be working. I'm going to tell you a story that a girl told me this week and that's a true story that happened a few days ago in the town of Coruña. A girl to whom, speaking in English, they literally told her in a job interview they wouldn't hire her, who, as she dared to enter there speaking in Greek. These are real facts, flesh and bone in the 21st century. And I didn't even see Galician Union raise the phone to worry and deal with that situation. We have made it very clear that in Galicia what we are living in is a process of language substitution of Greek by Spanish, a process of language substitution caused and supported by the powers of the State and, in this case, by the convolence of the Galician Union, which in the face of the discrimination of Greek, against the marginalization of our language, which proposes us as a solution is the linguistic immersion in Spanish in the educational field and maintaining the exclusion of our language in all areas. We hope today that you, if you stretch out in this House as an advisor, will not repeat the mistakes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u252	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u253	...from his predecessors. We hope for you more rigour, and we hope that you will not come here to insult or disregard the initiatives and proposals that our group has made. Over the last thirty years, we can boast as a political organization to bring laws to improve the protection of Greek, to denounce discrimination, to demand compliance with the applicable legality, to form part of the agreements that have provided the General Plan for Linguistic Standardization. What can you boast of, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? To make a decree that marches in the English language? Looking to the other side while our tongue loses talkers? Not to move one finger in the face of all these discriminations? Of course, we hope this will be an opportunity and that you really will open up a change in language policy. For that, Counselor, we also want to make proposals for you. Accept, as requested by the Council of Culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u254	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u255	...to the Royal Academy, as all trade union organizations asked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Time's up. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, it's time for interpelerations. Mrs. Pontón... in the interpellations and the questions... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón! I'm not going to argue with you. You don't have the word and you leave the rostrum. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón... You have the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u257	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to regret the personal circumstances of Mr. Caamaño and, secondly, before I begin with my intervention, to say that the interest and transcendence of a matter has nothing to do with the timetable, and we must all respect the schedules that are set. Today is my first intervention in this House as a councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, many debates, many and intense debates, and I hope they are constructive. It remains to be said that I have the greatest respect for Parliament, because it is not only the House that represents the democratic will of the Greeks, but that it must also be a forum to exchange ideas, a space necessary for the drive of initiatives and the search for solutions to people's problems. At this new stage in front of the council, I undertake to work to seek consensus wherever possible and, above all, to ensure the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks. Undoubtedly, the language, our Greek, our own language, is one of Galicia's main riches. It is a sign of identity of our people, and well deserves an effort and all the work to seek consensus and country agreements. The question of language has long been a subject of debate and discrepancy. But I would say that this happens almost exclusively in the political sphere, because in the social sphere, among people, there is a normality and a coexistence between our official languages which, by the way, is far from certain negative, pessimistic and confrontational messages that are being heard on many occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is a space for political debate, but it is also a space where citizens should be heard. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek is the language of everyone and of all, of those who have it as their mother tongue and we use it, and also of those who acquire it as their own. That being the case, politicians, and especially those who have the responsibilities of government, we must hear and learn from citizens. The differences may exist between you and us, and it's positive that they exist, but in the defense of the coexistence and promotion of our languages must dominate this about confrontation. It is true that the political debate on language has been opened in recent days by two situations that have been highlighted here. The first one has to do with the interpretation of the usage survey data published by the IGE. And the second one has to do with the memorandum published by the Royal Galician Academy. In this context, and from a purely political perspective, let me tell you, Mrs. Pontón, that I understand that you are considering your debate in terms that do so, is your ideological position, it is lawful, but it is certainly not shared by many. And I say this because Galicia is an open society, it's a plural society, it's a rich society linguistically, which has two official languages, languages that are used with total normality on the street. It is no less true, too, that the voices of the Galician Nationalist Block always use the same arguments to criticize the linguistic policy of the Galician Union, of all the Galician assemblies, even those of Galician assemblies where you sat in the councils of this Union itself. We can appeal to the headlines, that would be an easy argument. I won't, Mrs. Pontón. But what really matters right now is to act. And using what you often say, let's abandon complexes. Look, what we have to leave, what we have to leave first, is always seeing the empty glass. You always see the empty glass, you don't see it even half empty, you see it empty. And we must also abandon that constant attempt that you make to try to appropriate the language as if it were an identity symbol not of Galicia and the Greeks, but of the Block. And that's a lot of damage to the Greek language. And we should also abandon those constant adjectives, those constant disqualifications that, far from creating a climate conducive to the use of Greek, what they do is generate a discredit and discouragement in their use. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the IGE survey there are certain data we understand if they should improve. And the Union is added to the political groups in this matter, it is added to the RAG itself, it is added to the various and different sectors of society that tell us that it must fundamentally enhance the use of Greek. Focusing on the IGE survey here brings the collation. What does this survey tell us? She's worried about the use of Greek. And to the data you said, Mrs. Pontón, I'll give you other things that you'll probably say are not true, but they're true. And I'll tell you that, according to the survey data published in the IGE, it's still, and that's, Galician majority language. Moreover, the IGE's own survey tells us that there's a shift in the trend towards Greek in the indexes of oral and written knowledge; that is, we're at the best levels of oral and written knowledge in the language of the Greek language in history. And look, I'm going to give you the data between 2008 and 2013. There are more Greek and Welsh people who usually use and speak Greek, they increase by 0.6 points; and instead there are fewer percentages of people who don't know how to speak Greek, they decrease by almost half a point. I mean, we're in a process in which the education system is ensuring that the gales and the gales, the boys and the girls, the boys and the girls, have a full knowledge of the oral use, written use and reading use of the gales. And I'll also tell you that, according to the same data from the IGE, the percentage of people who know how to write has increased significantly in recent years, more than two points, and on the other hand, that of those who don't know how to write in Greek has also decreased in recent years. We are then faced with an improvement in oral and written knowledge of the Greek language, of course, what we have to promote is to achieve greater use, that is, a greater use by the Greeks of their own language. To do this, we have to convince people, we have to have a choice of conviction. Or what do you want to do to force people to speak German? Do you want to do something? Because I'd tell him that what we have to do is convince him to speak German. For that, there is another important fact that you are also obvious in this House, and it is that the presence in teaching, despite the decree, as you say, has made remarkable progress in recent years. And I'm going to tell you a question, if we have a minimal historical perspective and we've compared it to ten years ago, today more students are receiving classes in English than ten years ago, much more! from 39% to 46%. And there are also many fewer who receive Spanish classes, from 60% to 53%. They're objective data, hardly questionable data. We are then, gentlemen, in front of a path, and this path tells us that, on the one hand, we have a knowledge of the Greek, and that where we have to work and deepen is in the use of it. Secondly, the debate revolves around a recent pronouncement by the RAG. I'd tell you there that we're practically agreeing on 100 percent of the points of this memo, and I'll tell you why. First of all, because RAG proposes an approach to linguistics from a positive point of view, to proposals, not confrontation. Secondly, because the Academy talks about convincing, convincing, never talking about imposing, and there we fully agree. Third, because the Academy also tells us that to improve the rates of use – which is what really concerns us, the rates of use – it is necessary to involve the whole society, families, businesses, trade...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u258	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u259	...to universities, to youth, etc. I mean, we're practically never very coincidentally lined in these areas. So, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that we're working, and we want to work, and there I'm sending our message, about what unites us and not about what separates us. The path we have ahead must face with an open and plural vision, because we must convince and urge the Greeks, especially the younger ones, to use Galicia's own language to be in the world and to relate. Let us do, ladies and gentlemen, an exercise of political generosity and listen to the citizens. Let's think about the general interest and what really matters, that is, the empowerment, the dignity and the greater use of our language. For all this – and I have finished Madam President – we work on what unites us and not what separates us. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u261	Mr Rodríguez, the truth is that you repeat very well all the topics that have been listening to in this House for years as a Member, and have contributed absolutely nothing to the debate. You can keep saying and throwing frogs and snakes against BNG, but what you can't criticize is that we've always brought proposals to this House. And what the People's Party did was always vote against all the proposals that have systematically made the BNG and bring nothing better, but the only one that brings the PP are backward. Look, I gave you a data, and as I already know the level of manipulation that they sometimes come to on these issues, I literally took what's put at the Galego Institute of Statistics in their assessment of the survey. Usage of language: There's an increase in Welsh and Welsh under the age of 15 who can't speak in English. So I ask you: is the legal mandate being fulfilled that the education system guarantees equal knowledge of languages? Tell me, it's a very simple question. Just as it was very simple another of the questions that we asked in our inquiry: what measures will the Greek Government take in the face of the dramatic situation that the language is experiencing? We're already very clear that the only measure is manipulation. Manipulation of reality: there are data for optimism. The Greek loses speakers but the Galician Union says that we must be optimistic, it's all right. We die, ladies and gentlemen, with a smile in our mouth. Look, I'm going to read you a text: the demographic force of a language, measured in its number of usual speakers, for example, is an important factor in their survival and vitality, but it doesn't guarantee immunity from the advance of linguistic replacement. At the same time, if the language loses presence in oral formal uses, and does not gain significant spaces in written uses, despite the increase in the ability to do so, the social vitality of that language will be compromised. Much of this we have in the English language at present; an important deficit of vitality, power and social prestige. These are the words of the former Secretary General of Linguistic Standardization, who is part of his government as Secretary General of Culture, where he spoke also, by the way, in this text and denounced the process of substitution of the Greek language that was taking place in Galicia. I don't know if you believe in theses that you were defending your current secretary general in terms of the English language. And we asked him if, apart from the topics and phrases made, they're going to overcome their immobility and they're going to do something to make the Greek present in health, justice, the media, in the field of games and leisure, in the field of everything we have pending, if you're willing to change a policy that doesn't guarantee the full and equal knowledge of the two languages. You know perfectly well that there's a very serious problem on that ground, but you're not willing to give your arm a twist. Look, before the president interrupted us so I could finish a debate normally, which is what it has to serve a parliament, so I could give you a debate normally and not cut you off for not spending another twenty seconds – which, by the way, interrupted me from the PP group and didn't take it into account – what I meant is, is, Counsellor, willing or not to withdraw the decree from multilingualism? That's what he has to tell us. Look, of course there were disagreements in the social field regarding the language policy of the PP! There were thousands of people, and some of the biggest demonstrations in this country, against that decree that today we know what it does is to prevent that, in areas where there is a higher level of Castelanization, the Greek language can be normalized, and that it is also fulfilling a function that is very worrying, that there are many children...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u262	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u263	...and girls who enter the education system speaking in English and go out speaking in Spanish, and it's not for free decision. Are you going to do something about the real discrimination that exists in relation to the use of the English language at work, in health care, in social services, in justice, in the field of notaries? There is a real problem in all these areas. Will you change that policy that excludes the Greek from the media? And of course there was social controversy! And you guys today have a dilemma because the PP started its mandate going behind these banners. I think there are members of the People's Party behind a demonstration that called for it to be excluded from the linguistic field. And here they were on the side of ladies and gentlemen who don't accept that there is Greek and that they despise us as Greeks and Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u264	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u265	I think they were here. You have to decide if you want to go behind this sign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u266	Mrs. Pontón, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u267	..."This is Spain, and he who doesn't like to go away," or he's really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u268	Mrs. Pontón... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you have a call to order. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u269	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Pontón, I believe that this parliamentary group, this government, this political party, never despises anyone. We may not agree with you, and we do not agree with you on many occasions, but do not interpret a sensible vision with contempt. Don't play it. Because we really see that they're evolving very little when they're still using photographs that is no longer the first or the second or the third time we've seen in this case. In any case, I believe that his political stance is licit and we respect it, but we do not share it, nor do we share it with a large majority of the Greeks and the Greeks, and it is seen in all electoral processes. It'll never be enough for you. You want a Galician only in Greek, and it's respectable. But it's not shared with the vast majority of society. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón spoke of a legal mandate for the knowledge of the two official languages we have in Galicia. That balanced knowledge is guaranteed, data demonstrates it. The decree being applied ensures that there is a balanced teaching. The problem is not – that is their main mistake – an educational, school problem, knowledge is guaranteed. What's the matter? That you say you lose the English. Why? Because we use it less of the Greeks. And why do we use it less? That's where we have to work. And we have to work on encouraging and boosting use once knowledge has it. We agree, and look, I'm going to tell you one thing, we agree on a matter: we have to work on boosting use in families, in leisure, in health, in the company, so that it doesn't happen what you said here in the previous intervention. That's where we have to work, and if you're obsessed with focusing debate only on the educational issue, I think they're absolutely wrong, because what official data shows is that oral knowledge at the written level and reading level is absolutely guaranteed by the application of the decree. You've also talked, and you're talking, about the General Language Standardization Plan. I'll tell you a question. I worked and participated in that plan in the early 1990s. And I'm going to tell you that that plan, which is huge, was agreed to be the People's Party, it has 440 measures, of which a great majority are in progress. Some of them are missing, but others have also moved forward. And I think this plan marks a roadmap that is going on with total normality. You also speak, Mrs. Pontón, that in recent years it has been lost in Greek. But we have a minimal historical perspective, we extend the accordion. If we take the data you use to say that if you go down in English in the last few years, we go back, we take the horizon 2003-2015, when you go down further in the use of Greek?, between 2003 and 2008, twelve points. [[Interruptions.]] When you go down from 2008 to 2013, you go down two points. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, you can't link the use of Greek to a political formation, but to the desire that people speak in English. And that's where we have to act by persuasion, because if we don't try to pass that persuasion on to society, what are we going to tell him? Do you propose that we force the children to speak English or Spanish in recreation? Or do you propose that a person be forced into the street when entering into a business to speak German or not to speak it? That, Your Honor, is something we do not agree on. And by going back to the educational field, back to the IGE data, we can claim that we have generations of younger and more prepared girls with greater oral and written knowledge of the Welsh language. The data you use to denote the language policy of Joine are the ones that tell you that we are in front of the better-prepared and better-formed generations of English in both oral and written terms. And it's clear that the right is the use, the right is the use. And we must strengthen – and there we agree, Mrs Pontón – the presence of language in society, and that is a task of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u270	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u271	I would say, by the end, that the language must unite us, it must serve to join us as Greeks, it should not serve to separate us. And I'm also going to make a pronouncement. We're defining a language dynamization plan in the socio-economic fabric, that fabric that you're critical of which you don't speak Greek. We're working with institutions, civil and economic fabric organizations, and we'd like to count on you. We'll also have other plans that we'll start up slowly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u272	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u273	Finally saying that we should work for the use of the Greek...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u274	No, it's over now, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u275	...because that will be good for the Greek, it will be good for Galicia and, above all, it will be good for the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u276	We suspended the session until tonight at 6:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u277	Let's restart the session with point 5 of interpellations. Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and six other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions carried out by the Government of Galicia in the face of the judicial proceedings involving the various high positions of the Council of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u278	Mrs. Soneira has the floor to make up her plea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, few and few Members and Members, no, no... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u280	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u281	I didn't sit with anyone, please! [[Murmurs.]] And I also thank most of you for having this slightly thin majority with respect to the number of Members, but I also thank you for that. [[Laughter]] And besides, I'm going to start with something that I know you're gonna like, I'm going to agree with the president of the board without it serving as a precedent. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo said in the morning that we are not Venezuela, and I agree, we are not Venezuela yet in this health; there is still a lot of difference, a lot, a lot. Because those of us who know that country know that it's been a long time since they've had a lot of trouble with those who don't have any more remedies than public health. Health, on the other hand, which is practically common in all American countries for their dominant private health system. And, of course, Mr. President brought it in because he draws out a stereotyped image of a country like ours, and how there are so many circumstances. Of course, and I, when I was listening to him, somehow made me change the meaning of my intervention. Because, of course, anyone in the world sees this picture, what is the picture we give of our country? Well, look, in this picture there's a recreational boat in which there's, in the center, a gentleman who at that time was Sergas' number two, who was a member of a government, today he's president of the Galician Union. Under the flag is the owner of the ship, a lord who was tried and convicted and at that time was sending indictable amounts of money to all tax havens that one might happen to, even to some place where there was snow. It was on the same dates. That boat, besides -- and it's proven in the sentence -- was carrying a ball because he was being followed by the police because he suspected it was a ship dedicated to drug trafficking. At the same time, and in the social environment in which he moved – which, frankly, even gives me a little bit of disgust sitting under the flag of my country – this gentleman was the one who contributed to what was called "the lost generation of Arousa." It was the same lord before which hundreds of mothers manifested themselves, before him and others who, like him, were ruining their children, their families, the social environment, the economy of Arousa and other areas of Galicia. It was public domain. At that time there were accounts adjustments in that world, with murders, kidnappings, extortions. Well, Mr. President of the Board said he had cut off with this gentleman, when he found out what was going on, in 1997. But then with the investigations, or when the police heards were made public during the trial, it was shown that, at least until 2003, friendship continued. So it doesn't look like the president of the board has a very good memory, or it has a selective memory. And this is a democracy, and he was a public office at that time, and today is the highest authority in our country. And this image is also the country image. And if this person were such a Maduro, even if at that time he was an electrician, a plumber, or any other dignitary profession, we'd be throwing him in the face and we'd even be degrading the Venezuelan mark because that gentleman was on the Caribbean coasts, on a drug dealer ship and on a ship that was investigating the police. We had no explanation beyond what was so peculiar in that way, and that we knew nothing more. Our group has requested the presence of the president of the board for active and passive, and that is why we have asked you today, Mr. Rueda. Why? Because in all this there was news, there was news in this particular case, because there was already judgment, and that gentleman, already officially, is a criminal, a criminal who lived from suffering beyond. And here we have two questions: either Mr. Feijóo was a very simple person who didn't know anything – and that's very bad – or he was a person who wasn't so simple, he heard too much, and that's almost what I'd say is worse. But then we're talking about all the cases of corruption, Mr. Puy, because you had a lapse the other day in the press round after the Speaker's Board. When they asked him about a lawyer who's in a party, he seems to be very prominent, because he was in a judicial office that was defending these unwary people who in Galicia are throwing bombs at the cash registers or at the headquarters of my party, you said... and of yours too, it's true, too, it's true, yes, yes, it's true, and you'll never see me defending anything about it. [[Murmurs.]] Me, my party? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u282	They don't dialogue. Please don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u283	Please! It does not insult my intelligence or the suffering of many socialist militants who, some of them, have paid with their lives the defense of the democratic regime. So I'm careful with these things, we mustn't mess around. But Mr. Puy said, what would you think if we had a lawyer militating in the party that had defended drug trafficking? Pablo Vioque.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u284	Mr. Puy, Mrs. Soneira, don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u285	[...] reking the People's Party in Arousa, man. But if you were given the party's gold medal to a recognized criminal. Please, Mr. Puy!, sometimes the memory is very fragile. But in Operation Zeta a militant of his said what he said, and he said recently; and, in statements before the judge, there is a servant of that lord who says yes, that she personally took 3,000 "outs" to a winner; a winner who has already told us Mr. Rueda here that if he had stayed at Mount Pio on some occasion. Yes, man, yes, Mr. Rueda, you went out through the hills of Úbeda but you said what he said. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Of course he said what he said. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] And he's still waiting for Mr. Méndez Romeu to explain to him the president of the board who made the friend who spends the night in Monte Pio – he was going to spend the night because he's gone now. What was he doing in the Galician delegation he was negotiating with Pemex? On condition that? In exchange for what? What did he get in return? What fruit has the Autonomous Community of this lord obtained? We don't know. You still haven't explained to us how all the accusations that have been made about the financing of the People's Party, the headquarters of Pontevedra, have not yet been explained to us, nor have you given any explanation of any kind about the expansion of research into the financing of the Ourense People's Party. Because it's funny, this isn't that someone from outside would report it, it's that, both at Gürtel and what's going on in Ourense, it's the managers from inside who tell things. Of course, then you come and say, no, we're like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u286	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u287	What do you want me to tell you? The manager of Ourense... man, some explanation has to do, and that's why you bring laws here to say: from now on we don't accept companies to offer prayers to the parties and, if they do, we increase the public contribution. And for what? If the Basel annotations on all of them are not legal contributions! What do you care about that? And, so lovers of the cut, we've increased public contributions, why? Do you notice that you now have a magnifying glass on the bigger one and, therefore, everything that Mr. Bárcenas pointed out now isn't going to be so easy? We only ask the president of the board to appear, to give clear explanations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u288	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u289	...that he would come to the House and tell us exactly if he was such a simple, simple Peares boy, that he was the only one in this country who didn't know that this gentleman was dedicated to what he was doing... that, of course, the Galician brand doesn't deserve us to show up there with this kind of photo, that neither the Socialist Party has published it. And I also tell them -- in the personal plan -- that I, who connect with a lot of people from outside, when these things come out, send me a lot of mails, and I assure them that sometimes they burn my ears off of having to explain that in our country these kinds of things happen. Because these things used to happen in Colombia and southern Italy, but unfortunately, in our country, it seems that for a time it was a custom. Nothing else, Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u290	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u291	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. A special greeting to half the Socialist Group that was interested in Mrs. Soneira's inquiry, at least half of it. Because, Mrs. Soneira, look, I have to tell you, with all due respect in this gallery, that the newspapers were saying this summer – a log of their nothing inconspicuous and quite failed support from Mr. Madina and his criticisms nothing internal, by the way, to the leadership of the Socialist Party – that the path left to Mrs. Soneira to maintain her political future – if she still had a political future – was quite complicated. I don't know if you have a political future or not, Mrs. Soneira, because right now, in the Socialist Party – and if you ask Mr. Gómez – whether someone has a political future or not, you have to ask him one day at a time. But really, if the way they set you up to maintain your political future is to say what you said today in this gallery, I honestly don't think you're being compensated, Mrs. Soneira, I'm telling you honestly. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm grateful to you for doing this interpellation because, by taking account of it, you're going to do within a short time a year that I don't have, within my responsibilities as vice president and adviser, no questions related to my competences. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose you will know that I am in charge of the local administration – in plenary, I say – of the emergencies of civil protection, justice, cooperation and relations with the European Union, of the rationalization and administrative modernization of the Galician Union, of the formation of officials, of gender equality and violence... and I had no initiative on the part of the Socialist Party to take an interest in all this. I think this can be due to two things: either that we do very well – that it may be, I already say no, we have faults like everyone else – or that are issues that you've never really been or done; these issues don't deserve to ask any questions. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it's for the first, I really appreciate it; if it's for the second, I'm genuinely concerned. I think it's for the second. In any case, thank you for trusting in the name of the Government, but I regret it in the name of the citizens, including those who voted for you who will be less and less. [[Applause]] And look, Mrs. Soneira, I, answer, I don't know what I have to answer to you anymore because as I bring here the interpellation and you come here with a picture, you start talking about what follow-up, photos under the flag... you asked a question, an interpellation, and I'm going to answer what you ask me. You could do it Mr. Besteiro's style, it's true, we're in Parliament, fortunately you can't do what you do in the Deputy of Lugo: I come in and then I don't admit any questions, it won't be that you have complicated questions for those who have no answers. This can't be done here, and it feels good to me. You ask how we react to the actions that are under way. Look, respecting precisely that, the ongoing actions, the action of justice, I would tell you that justice is acting, and we always respect it – it affects those who affect you, including the actions that affect you; by the way, they are quite outstanding in that kind of performance, which are a few songs. What does that mean? Right to the presumption of innocence; I suppose you know what that is, it means not to disqualify what harms us by system. You ask me about Ourense. Look, the president of Ourense's PP couldn't be more clear, and I quote it textually: "We are at the absolute disposal of justice to collaborate as closely as possible to complement or realize any doubts they have." Can't be clearer and can't be more coherent. [[Murmurs.]] And that's what's expected of us, that's what we do. On the contrary, you are already doing so, Mrs Soneira, gentlemen of the Socialist Group. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the president of the Socialist Party -- nothing more and nothing less than the president of the Socialist Party -- said, "We know we're in the electoral campaign because judiciaries are starting to appear." That's what the president of the Socialist Party says; what she doesn't say is that, of course, the electoral campaign marks you for opportunistic reasons, but when you start to appear judicial actions that were already before, it turns out that this is an attack on the Socialist Party. He said – and I feel that I am not present – the last candidate of the Socialist Party of Galicia to the Chair of the Union on the actions of the judges that affected him. This is the fashionable political shooting. By the way, I'd like to, if Mr Vázquez were, to ask him whether he is aware that he has signed this inquiry, if he is aware of what you say, that any judicial action makes him suspect who is not even affected or charged with judicial proceedings; that is, if he is in the situation where Mr Vázquez is, I suppose he will be much worse than you say the People's Party is. I suppose Mr. Vázquez would not be aware that he was signing this interpellation, Mrs. Soneira, regret that [...] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look, let's continue with this inconsistency, pure inconsistency. To come here saying these things is like saying that you support primarys, it's their salvation, and when a primary candidate introduces himself, it turns out that they defend him with his finger, that's the coherence of the Socialist Party, it's exactly the same. If, in the end, it's to be consistent or not to be consistent, Mrs. Soneira. [[Applause]] With all due respect, he doesn't cut the size of a judge or a prosecutor, and you come here to make a judge and make a prosecutor, and to accuse everyone who doesn't think like you. Look, what I know, what you've done in these situations, since you're talking to me about Ourense, is asking for documentation. They didn't come into the office of the president of an MP asking him for documentation, as it seems to have happened in Lugo. They asked her, they didn't go directly into the office to tell her what she was; I don't know if because she didn't want to give it, because she didn't want to give it to her. [[Applause]] Honestly, Mrs. Soneira: think a little about the things you ask or, if not, look at your party and apply the same trait to everyone. Tell me about a collection of signs of judicial action. But look, if you have two presidents of the Socialist Party charged before the Supreme Court, charged without concretion of crime – a new legal figure that just invented the Socialist Party to try to put in good place the president of the Andalusian Board, who said that any defendant, in no case, would be a member of the Socialist Party or hold a position. Of course, when inconsistencies come, when they come to pick you up, you have to start doing this kind of thing, Mrs. Soneira. I suppose, when you do the questioning, you'll take these things into account; if you intend to be objective, you'll see what happens in your party: accused without concretion of crime, a new legal figure that applies to the Socialist Party. Tell me about illegal funding. Hey, don't you know what they asked the Socialist Party of Santiago to do? Is Mr. Bugallo there and the Socialist Party of Ribeira? What was that all about? Are you coming to ask me for an explanation when I was asked to tell those parties, Mrs. Soneira? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u292	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u293	You don't know exactly what the panorama is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u294	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u295	...and what are the judicial proceedings. If we must respect everyone's, and respect the presumption of innocence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u296	Mrs. Gallego, second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u297	...we'll respect everyone's, and if we don't, we'll start again demonstrating the inconsistencies in which you move. Look, but if in Andalusia we're told that the Socialist Party's high office has money to roast a cow, Mrs. Soneira. But if they're their reference, they're their hope, they're the ones who expect them to be saved from the general debacle and the fall in which the Socialist Party is, and they have more money than they need to roast a cow. [[Murmurs.]] What are you talking about, Mrs. Soneira? You want to be serious? If you want us to keep talking – you did it once here – about who sleeps on Mount Pio. "Mr. Rueda told me," and when he realized he hadn't told him... well, "I said what he said," and so on. Do you really want to be serious? Do you really want to talk about measures for citizens to regain confidence in politics? Do you really want to talk about democratic regeneration? Do you want to speak seriously of the right to judicial proceedings without disqualifying them, without destroying the presumption of innocence of those who are not their own and believing in the system without attacking it when it is not appropriate for them? You want us to do all that? So, look, they have a good chance: we have the financing law that is going to enter, it has just formally entered Parliament today. Let's talk about all that. We talk about the needs of political parties – including yours, Mrs Soneira – without hypocrisy, without double languages, and facing reality. Let us talk about all this, about the Transparency Act – which will be presented once it is approved by the Council of the European Union in this Parliament – of measures for public management without anything to hide in order to regain the confidence of citizens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We speak of these 35 proposals, many of them of yourselves, which Mr. President of the Board introduced to Mr. Besteiro and said no; I don't know if they sounded to him, they didn't sound to him, if they did to him and when they gave them they didn't recognize him, the case is that he said not to his own proposals to re-establish political life. [[Murmurs.]] We're serious about that. And if we talk about it, maybe we're doing them a favor not only to political parties themselves, not only to political life itself, but also to citizens who expect us much more than their inconsistencies, their destruction. And this paper that comes to you to do, and I really regret, if that is the way to purge your inner sins, I sincerely believe that you do not make up for it; if that's what it is to do, I sincerely regret it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, there we will be for that, if it is to resolve your internal differences, if it is to know who is saved in the case of the Socialist Party, with us for that don't tell, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u298	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u299	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u300	Mrs. Soneira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u301	Mr. Rueda, I'm an agnostic. I don't apply cylics. I don't have to go do spiritual exercises. Unfortunately for me I am not convinced that going to a confessional in a hypocritical way confessing my sins leaves me clean as a patena. I don't believe it, understand? I think everyone walks with their mistakes, and with their virtues, if they have them. Now, don't worry about my political future, man. I don't think you're so generous, we don't have a degree of friendship as deep as you're worried about. And if he is, I'll free him from that concern. As for rating the size – I suppose you refer to my political size; the other, if I discuss it whenever you want –. As for the political size, I can see that yesterday the professor got followers, because yesterday they told someone that he hadn't come back for Parliament, as if that wasn't the power of the voters and himself of the registrar of the property. [[Laughter]] And look, Mr. Rueda, I, or any of my comrades, will be here with the support of the citizens, not with the come of the registrar of the property or with his coming. [[Applause]] Look, don't you really mind if Galicia's image is this? Well, maybe not, maybe not. In this picture, we're not talking about presumptions. We're talking about a gentleman who's been tried and convicted, with objective evidence, except that you don't trust justice and tell the others that if we have confidence. What do you tell us? Tax havens, money laundering, he's worried about the goods because they're supposed to be bought with money from the proceeds of crime. And it turns out that here one day the president tells us that friendship was cut in 1997, then extended until 2003, he says that he traveled doesn't know when, or where, he doesn't know whether Europe's peaks or Andorra, that there was snow, and it turns out that in the same sentence it is proven that this gentleman deposited money in Andorra. Well, okay, what do you want me to tell you? Because I'm an agnostic, I need to see things, and we're also talking about politics, and we're talking about the president of the board, okay? And as agnostic, I don't have to believe, as if it were a dogma of faith, which tells us a gentleman who has already told us things that are not true, understand? You always pose the theme of Monte Pio, as if Monte Pio had been somebody's private residence, and it is not; private residence is his private home and mine, Monte Pio does not. Monte Pio is the residence of the Greeks who give it to those who, by their own will, exercise as president of the Union, and man, a little please. Because here are specific complaints, there is a militant from the People's Party who says he has a friend from the president to get things, and who pays him 3,000 euros every month. And in the trial, when asked by the investigating judge, this gentleman's maid ratified. And now you tell me that all this is stories, stories that happen to us all of a sudden. Well, it's just not like that. Yes, Mr. Tellado, and there's a manager who seems to be the brain of Gürtel – or the brain, because there's a lot of brains there – who says here, and he threatens to give names, and challenges, in addition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u302	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u303	...to take off the blanket – ended, Madam President – of surpluses, to charge in b, and to distribute money in envelopes. No one has given an explanation, and you say that those who sow mistrust between citizens about parties and politics are the ones who bring these debates here, and no explanation. You tell me, because this is a democracy, this isn't Burkina Faso, and this isn't a place where the president exercises, or by divine law, or you don't know why. You have to answer to the citizens. And the name of Galicia and its president can't be in these things, Mr. President, understand? Of course we're not Venezuela, but we're not a banana republic either. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u304	Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u305	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Soneira, I really am unable to know exactly what I have to answer – and I ask all the Members and Members of the House to read the explanation – because one thing is what I was asking... I think I answered her in the first, but not in the first, especially in the second, is that I am not able to follow her. Look, if the interrogation was good enough to know that you're not going to the confessional, it's a very free option, I could suppose. If the interrogation has served to find out that no cylics are in place, it is very interesting information – which I don't know is who might be interested in, but well, if you say it, it will be for something. If it's useful to say that you cut it, I mean politics, I don't know what you're talking about, I don't know what you're talking about, I mean political size, but you introduced a very interesting debate, which I didn't ask you, nor do I think you're up to this Parliament, Mrs Soneira. Another case is that when one is diverted from the subject, and he starts talking about something different from the one he's talking about, in the end he's lost – and really better, thinking a little bit, he realizes that, if we talk about legal acts, you have enough, and without explaining, and some that affect directly, or at least they're at the doors of his office, of his principal head in Galicia... – maybe he's thought about the moment and he's started talking... well, look, talking about cynicians and confessionaries, about the sex of the angels, almost so that he's spent time, fortunately short, and you got out as he could. [[Murmurs.]] Tell me to trust justice. Of course, yes, I told you, it's you I don't trust. I say it's your president, your party, and your party goes out saying that the judiciaries are when there's a campaign, another says they're a political shot. Finally, there are so many statements that you could say about disqualifications of judicial actions by members of the Socialist Party, when they are not in their best interests, or when they think they are harming them, or when they cannot use them against others, which is that they sincerely put up the words. Tell me I've always raised the theme of Monte Pio, but if it's you! With great shame, by the way, I've already told you here in front of everyone -- it's in the Journal of Sessions -- some members of your own party, who said they felt ashamed of the question you were asking, that they didn't share it, and that they didn't find it strange that they took care of you. I don't care about your political future, I don't know if you're worried about -- your party members either, and eventually we're doing this mix, and it turns out that the final consequence is that you're in this forum, or from there, making this kind of questioning, this kind of question and this kind of accusation, that I wouldn't like them to have ever touched you as much as I had to survive any member of my party, Mrs. Soneira. That is the final consequence. By the way, you tell me that what you said I was giving you I don't know how much money a specific lord... Look, it's the same thing that said, "Alas, Ricardo – I suppose by Ricardo Varela –, what orphans we're going to feel now that you're no longer with us! Keep it like this, orphans, who will be more and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u306	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 7 of questions to the Government. Question by Mr Pedro Arias Veira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the achievements achieved to Galicia on the trip to Mexico, Peru and Colombia by Mr. President of the Galician Union, started on February 13, 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u307	You have the floor, to ask your question, Mr. Arias. Give Mr. Arias a voice, please. You have the floor, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u308	Yes, Madam President. Mr. Conde, we are a parliamentary group that has a conception of Galicia as a space of 2,700,000 inhabitants. Therefore, economic specializations do not allow an economy of total self-sufficiency. What is a clear conclusion of economic strategy is the need for total economic openness. Since 2009, the Executive has declared here, by this parliamentary group, the need for a policy of systematic economic openness. You yourself, from your mandate, from your position – in your talks, conferences, in your economic forums, also in your budget presentations and in your appearances – are defending a policy of open internationalization. This comes in line with the recent trip of the President of the Union and you yourself to Mexico, Peru and Colombia to try to establish and strengthen economic policies that logically benefit both parties because without that kind of mutual benefit there is no international trade or international economic relations of financial, productive, industrial, etc. Therefore, the question, consistent with this type of diagnosis, background and analysis, is precisely that I could inform us of what kind of achievements – if there are them – of expectations, signs, relationships and state of negotiations with these new countries towards reciprocal development; and, in the part which, of course, interests in this Parliament, of the possibilities that you find, understand or consider for the economic benefit of our land. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u309	Thank you very much. You have the floor to answer the economics and industry advisor, Mr. Francisco Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u310	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Arias. Firstly, logically, I would like to thank the Government for the opportunity to explain the results of this trip in this House. Logically, firstly, for a government responsibility, but also logically, because of the declarations – certainly not fortunate – of some group that would always prefer to criticize before being well informed. [[Murmurs.]] As I have already stated to you on several occasions in this House, the internationalization of our companies is one of the backbones of our economic policy because, in fact, as it moved in its exhibition, the goal is to continue to deepen in an open Galicia, in a competitive Galicia and therefore in a Galicia that is able to interact in international markets. And in that sense, we launched from the Government the strategy of internationalisation with horizons in 2020, which actually aims to increase the international presence of our companies, of the Greek companies. And logically, also trying to make an effort to diversify from a geographic point of view and also from a sectoral point of view. That is precisely where the diplomatic action that has just led the President of the Galician Union in both Colombia, Mexico and Peru is framed, accompanied by a business and institutional delegation from Galicia. These three countries, as you know, are members of the Pacific Alliance, one of the most important international agreements for their linkage with the Pacific countries, and an ever-increasing trade bloc from the international point of view. These countries represent Latin America's second, fourth and seventh most important economies, and the most important, of course, is that they are countries with high growth rates ranging from 4% to 7% annually, in addition to their economic stability and also offering favourable conditions for developing different businesses. In this context, we mark as a very clear goal to open new business opportunities to strategic sectors in Galicia. The agenda was set out in this issue, an agenda that had concrete results: in Mexico a cooperation agreement for economic promotion with the Secretariat for Territorial and Urban Agrarian Development was signed; in Peru a collaboration protocol was also signed to strengthen existing cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture field; and also, through the meeting that the president of the Union had with the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, agreed to collaborate in very relevant areas such as ICT, infrastructure, energy and naval. Logically, these are aspects that we will follow and try to strengthen the international position of our companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u311	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Arias' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Indeed, this parliamentary group reasonably considers what you have just told us now because we have evidence; we have the empirical evidence of the growth of Galician exports over the last few years. I mean, that kind of political strategy is matched by economic results on Galicia's external pay balance. I mean, export growth is a very important reality, it's a power lever for multiplier effects for the whole economy. We believe that, in fact, we should look further. There are comparative advantages to show and materialise in this type of concrete management. Spain, as a whole, has higher levels of openness. Galicia can't stay behind in this growth policy. Our export weight is even greater than the national average, and I would insist on what you just said, at the specific point of diversification; that is, we believe that this point of diversification of relational areas should be supported, and also, as you mentioned, in the specific notes of the indications, subscriptions of points, in the diversification of economic production of sectors of activity. And it seems to me that there is a certain novelty of manager innovation in the idea of the mixed international trade initiative -- i.e. the private sector, but also supported by the public sector -- i.e. supported by the president of the Union, for yourself, by the whole of the Greek institutions. They consider this kind of conception very important and I believe it will bear fruit with total certainty, as is shown in the growing international openness, which is now the international strategy of all the advanced countries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u313	Thank you very much, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u314	Nothing else, congratulations and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u315	Replica from the Economic and Industry Councillor, Mr. Francisco Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u316	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arias, indeed, the economic policy and industrial policy of this government are based on greater industrialization and therefore on greater competitiveness in our economy. And of course that competitiveness is accompanied by greater internationalization and therefore by a greater presence of our companies in the international arena. That is where we have the capacity to compete, where we have the capacity to grow, to generate jobs, and therefore that strategy of internationalization is directly linked to the greater diversification of both the productive sectors and the different geographic areas. And Galicia is giving concrete results, the Galician companies are giving concrete results and 2014 has reached the second best historical export record, with a figure greater than EUR 17 billion, only behind the 2013 record and almost – and this is also the really relevant – 30% above the 2009 export data. So our companies are having a very positive result and, logically, there's a government responsibility. That responsibility for government, logically, is to accompany our companies in this effort to internationalize and, therefore, that the Government can support the presence of our companies from a point of view not only of Galicia's image, but also logically, to provide them with added value from the point of view of relations with different governments. And in that sense, logically, we will continue to act, we will continue to accompany companies from an institutional point of view because internationalization is done so, along with companies and, logically, also negotiating with different governments. In this sense, by transferring concrete results to them: with the governor of the state of Puebla, an important contact has been highlighted in the issue of automobiles – as you know is a very important pole – and also a great interest in the development of renewable energies that guarantee self-consumption. In Peru, as you know, the president met with the Minister of Housing, Construction and Sanitation. We will, logically, continue to work on different projects that are being developed in Peru with the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Tourism, also with the Minister of Mines and Energy and with the Minister of Technology, Information and Communication. In Colombia we clearly identify great opportunities for our companies, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Also in Colombia in the automotive sector, through the meeting we held with General Motors and, logically, also with the different business meetings we held in the three countries, because in the three countries we accompanied the trade delegation with the different contacts. We will continue to work in internationalization, we will continue to accompany not only those 50 million euros of aid, but also that increasingly important institutional diplomacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u317	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u318	...in the international field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u319	Thank you very much. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions carried out by the Council of Galicia to avoid discrimination against the people of the Italian consumer as a result of the differences in the price of fuels between the autonomous communities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u320	You have the word, Mr. Losada, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u321	Yes, thank you, Madam President. The truth is I'm still recovering from leading the international diplomatic action by Mr Feijóo and those mixed international trade initiatives, which remind me of Tito's Yugoslavia. I don't know if Mr. Pedro Arias was referring to that, but, of course, the term was historically coined long ago; there is little newness. I come here to talk about advertising and competition, Counselor. Mr Feijóo ten months ago – I will give the exact date – announced a price pact for oil companies. We are very sorry that, in addition to announcing it in the San Caetano press room, I had not come to the National Commission for Markets and Competition, that commission that you have merged and that is increasingly incompetent. I bring this question here because I took it to Commission 6th and the director general of his board told us that the situation was unfair and unjustifiable, he gave us an absolutely tearous speech about the reality of the country, but the fact is that, until now, this Autonomous Community has done nothing. Timestepping: In that strategy of advertising and propaganda we've talked about commonly, and that I think you're already out of all doubt except for the most recalcitrant converts, on April 16, 2014 – that is, ten months ago – Mr. Feijóo, using in addition to this contented tone of himself, came to the conclusion that there was not enough competition in the fuel markets; by the way, something that the opposition and the Socialist Party had been saying for a long time. He needed to cover another press round a month later, and on May 15, 2014 he again insisted on this issue. He spoke exactly of the existence of an oil refinery in the province of Coruña, in the city of Coruña, and that, therefore, those lower fuel transport costs – Repsol refinery basically produces gas oil – should be transferred at prices. Unfortunately, he spoke and there was nothing. There was nothing because, in theory, you are preparing a decree law for ten months. They asked the Galician Competition Council for a report, but in the meantime, I'm going to read to them some headlines in the press these ten months: The first, April 17, 2014: "Galicia consumes Spain's most expensive gas oil" – it has gone from two months to two months, for short – and July 22, "The price of gas oil in Galicia has risen by 17% since the Board filed its complaint" – it must be a subject of international diplomacy that has a counterproductive effect –; December 19, 2014: "The diesel litre lower than one euro in nearly 100 Spanish petrol stations. None in Galicia." We moved on to 2015. Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The Councilman of Economics and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u323	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Losada, first of all, I suggest you just a little prudence when you talk about internationalization. I understand that his vision of internationalization is a vision of a hall, but this government has a responsibility to accompany companies and, therefore, to try to effectively open up our economy and to accompany the efforts they make. And from that point of view, there is clearly work to support the various aids that can be given from the Government, and also a work that all governments do, Mr. Losada, who do all governments, of institutional diplomacy and, therefore, of interlocution with the different governments. And I would also ask you, and I would suggest, a bit of rigour, because when you understand that the National Committee of Markets and Competition is incompetent, or you think that the President of the Union and this government are not acting in this situation, I think you should know two things – which you know, what happens is that when you intervene in Parliament we say that, in an intentional way, it does not reflect reality –: as you know, the National Committee of Markets and Competition is the one in charge and has the competence, in fact, to monitor the fixing, the possible setting of selling prices to the public; and, as should be known – if not, I move it – this very morning the National Committee of Markets and Competition imposed a fine of 32 million euros on the main operators precisely for a practice of pricing competition. If your reference when you want to talk about fuel prices are the headlines, because I'm sorry. I am moving you here, indeed, the different actions that this Government and the Central Government have made, which, logically, as you know, approved Royal Decree 4/2013, in order to increase effective competition. And, as you know, through that report of the Galego Competition Council, this government is working to implement the recommendations described in that report. The Galician Infrastructure Agency has reviewed the regulation of access to the autonomic road network. There is an approved order already, the Circular Order 1/2014, which came into force last October 1, which reduces requirements for service facilities on the margins. I am also talking about the decree that we are discussing and that will simplify the procedures for opening new gas stations, which is already in the Advisory Council and which will be adopted in the coming days, and I am also talking about the different maintenance contracts that this government has already asked the different Greek service stations to check, indeed, compliance with the market share. So, Mr. Losada, this joint is active, we are working, and you have no doubt that this government is not stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u324	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Losada Álvarez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u325	Counselor, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u326	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now you have the word. I just couldn't hear him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u327	Thank you very much, President. I appreciate your interest. "Joint international trade initiative" is a term of the Yugoslav economy, I said nothing more than that. As you will understand, you will like it or not, but I understand that the inheritance that Mr. Pedro Arias carries from time to time blooms. See, Article 30.1.4 of the Autonomy Statute states that we as an autonomous community have exclusive competence in consumer and user rights. Counsellor, is this 30 million-euro fine to fuel companies going to have any effect on Galicia? Because, if what's going to happen is that the gap between the price in Galicia and the price of the rest of the autonomous communities continues to be as high as the price up to now, you'll tell me what it's for. And by the way, the National Competition Commission, you know what it's for? For the latest report on local market surveillance in service stations to be published on the website is February 2013. It's very well, competent and competent. I insist, of February 2013 – municipality of Pamplona, by the way –. And then the Socialist Group presented in Madrid a bill to effectively act on competition in the fuel market. I'm sure the People's Party will support her, because they're so worried, in Madrid and here in Galicia, about these price differences. And I'm also sorry that your intellectual level doesn't allow you to make references to -- yes, of course -- press headlines. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry about the change in the guidance of the Council because his predecessor said precisely that these were the witnesses of history, the hemerotheques; then they have to unify criteria. They are the three of today, Counsellor: "Taxes leave Galicia also with the most expensive gasoline on the whole Peninsula," "Competence certifying that Galicia is the community with the most expensive fuels," and moreover, "Spain suffered in January one of the most expensive gas stations in the European Union." Well, look, really, to be acting, you're doing it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Replica from the Economic and Industry Councillor, Mr. Francisco Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u329	Thank you. Your position, Mr. Losada, is curious, especially in view of your background as a government. I read to you: "This government, the two-party government, is..."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u330	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u331	"...this government..." "I know they don't want to listen to their exhibition... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u332	I'm sorry. Please, Mrs. Quintas. We don't talk about disrespect because, then... Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u333	"This government, the two-party government, is far from saying that we don't know what to do with the fuel prices." Is that all you have to say? Surely, because you were the Director General of Planning, Mr. Colino, what you made these statements in May 2008. The truth is, it's a little surprising that you're here to teach competitiveness lessons now. As you know perfectly well, the fuel price problem is a competition problem: the higher the competition there is, logically, the lower the price trend. This government is actually driving more competition across the entire logistics chain, as much or more competition in gas stations as more competition between operators. And you know perfectly well that the way Galicia can reduce the price of fuel – and therefore not be one of the autonomous communities that has the price of fuel, before taxes, the highest of all Spain – is, indeed, that there is more competition; and also logically, through monitoring and control of collusive practices. And there's a joint work, depending on the competences of each one, between the Government and the Council of Galicia to act. See, the Central Government promulgated a decree on 4/2013, to which, by the way, the Socialist Party voted against; now they want to improve it, but when they presented themselves in Congress they voted against it. They voted against – to see if you don't agree now, because, of course, a year later, at best, it changes criteria – but I'll remind you what includes this royal decree. See, the real decree forbids operators to mark the price of sale to the public – don't you agree? – the royal decree limited contracts between operators and distributors – certainly not agree – to one year, and we established that one operator cannot have more than 30% of the stations in a province. You voted against this. But we, as I told you, continue to work and are simplifying the administrative procedures and facilitating the provision of soil for the opening of new service stations, are strengthening the competition criteria in tenders for opening these roads, on the Greek roads, and we are also controlling supply contracts. So this government is operating logically from its competences, it's active, and what you're trying, Mr. Losada, are two things: increasing competition across the entire logistic chain and also, logically, being vigilant in the behavior that different operators might have. In this way we will continue to act to ensure that consumers can access the price of the oil as low as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to defend the right of the citizens of Greece to access university studies irrespective of their economic resources
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u334	Mr. Pombo has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u335	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all. Mr Counsellor, the Council of Ministers has just passed a Royal Decree amending the ordering of university studies, which aims once again to deepen the deterioration of the public educational university system and which has caused the criticism and discomfort of the university and of the majority of the political and social forces in our country. The Ministry of Education intends to undertake the fourth university reform – I think I remember – since 1983, changing the current four-year model, plus one master's, by another three-year degree and two-master's model. This fourth reform, Counsellor, in our view, causes less academic training for students, the worst educational quality of the public system and the serious increase in university education, and will once again lead to the expulsion of the most educated university system from families with less economic resources. According to the director of Compostela, 4,000 of that university alone. A new blow to universal public education, so you'll again assume a cut of teachers in the Greek university system, loss of students and a new cut in their funding. That is, cuts at public university and business opportunity, of course, for private university. Counsellor, we've been nothing more than eight years from the Bologna Plan, but the German Government has been continuously cutting down the public funding of the university – around 17% –: serious teacher cuts that count for hundreds and therefore loss of quality trainer and researcher from our university. In case this was little, Minister Wert severed the scholarships and tightened the requirements for access to the university; something will have to do with the loss of 5,000 students in the six years of Government Feijóo at the University of Galicia. And now comes the State Secretary of Education to declare that the Spanish university system is not economically sustainable and has just marked the PP model: the university for those who can pay – for the rich, of course – and the workers' children, take them away. Round: under the public university, live the private university. BNG, of course, understands that it is necessary to defend the right of Galicians and Greeks to access to Galician university studies. We must seek consensus and postpone the declared reform of Mr Wert. We must listen to and defend the universities of Greece: more teachers, more self-financing, and ensure the access of the student of Greece to the university. What do you intend to do, Counselor, to secure this access?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u337	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Pombo, allow me to be blunt and very clear on this matter, because it is no longer the first time we have said so as my predecessor as much as I am. The German Government is going to support those decisions that the German universities, in the field of their autonomy, adopt to organize their degrees and postgraduates. And I can say it higher, but I think I can't say it more clearly. And I'm going to tell you that a few days ago, last week, we had a meeting – I had a meeting with the principals personally – and we agreed on a roadmap; a roadmap in which, firstly, universities, within the framework of the CRUE, will evaluate, from the academic point of view and from the point of view of the opportunity for students and also for, say, the productive sectors of the country, the opportunity or not to modify the structure of years, of credits – from 180 to 240 credits – in careers. The universities are going to do this on an absolutely voluntary basis. They will be those who voluntarily propose to the Educational Administration the possibility of modifying or not the temporary structure of academic courses. And the Galician Union – I repeat – is going to be next to the three universities in Galicia and will work with them in a loyal and consensual way; that is not the first time it is done, this government has a long experience of consensus and collaboration with universities: we have done it in the University Financing Plan at its time, we have done it in the University Law, we have done it in the 2011 Decree and we will continue to do it, because we all understand that the university has a central, vertebral role in the life of the country and in the future of the country. As far as you're concerned, I tell you that Galicia is the autonomous community that has the lowest university rates, that Galicia is an autonomous community that has a reinforcement scholarship with its own funds to cover the lakes of the state decree and that Galicia has scholarships to empower no student to remain outside the education system on economic issues. And it has been and has been the autonomous community, the second autonomous community, which has best maintained university funding in recent years. We believe that Galicia is a positive island within the university system, and we are going to support directly, clearly and around the proposals made by universities, within their autonomy, to reorganize the teaching structure of degrees and postgraduates. When they have done it, when they make their proposal, a second step – and so we fixed it in our roadmap – will be to evaluate how we can maintain or modify the cost of registrations, but always starting from the basis that Galicia is, and will be, in the lower school fees for ensuring access to all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u338	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u339	Counsellor, the World Declaration on Higher Education in the 21st century states that access to higher education cannot be admitted to any discrimination based on race, sex, language, religion or economic considerations. Your speech, which you just gave me now, is the same as your predecessor's. Minister Wert's last decree is going in the opposite direction of what you're talking about right now. The statements of the State Secretary of Education have already been made that the university is for those who can pay. His predecessor – sitting behind you – Mr Vázquez, instead of defending the interests of the Greek education, the BNG denounced whenever it ended up becoming a footman of Minister Wert, the great cutter; that minister who managed to position the entire educational community against LOMCE as it now seems to be leading the way of university reform. Counsellor, we are aware that funding needs to be reformed, but in a positive way. Is there going to be more public funding for the university in Galicia, yes or no? Because Galicia is below the European average, and the average investment in R & D and higher education in Europe is 2%, and we do not reach 0.8%. Will there be a complaint from the Council to manage budgets and scholarships at the state level, yes or no? Are you going to claim that in the budget there are the 275 million you cut Wert? Yes or no? Are you going to defend the public university in Galicia, which is over 500 years old, yes or no? Tomorrow all the students will go out to defend the public education of this country. The new councilman from Galicia, what are you going to do?, defending the university or following Mr. Wert and Mr. Junta's advisor...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u341	Mr. Pombo, we agree on a matter: we want no one to be discriminated against in university access, all those students who have qualifications for a university career to do so, and no one to be expelled or out of the university system for lack of financial support from the administration. And that's why this government and the former government, the one that you – I think here should moderate your language and not use expressions that are not positive; everything is true in political language, but I think we should moderate those expressions – I think you should know that there are complementary orders, additional subsidies orders so that no German student is out of the university system for economic issues. I believe that this is something very important that has been achieved in this autonomous community and which we should all be proud of. You're talking about sustainability. Here are two challenges, two questions: one of an economic nature, which is guaranteed in Galicia, have been guaranteed in the past, taking into account the funding plan, the economic funds for universities, and there is a second criterion, which is the criterion of the university model. The university has to adapt and transform itself, evolve with society, and there we have to be aware, in some way, that we need to be constantly changing ourselves, to reform ourselves, to be more competitive, to tend to specialization, to tend to internationalization. That's really where we have to sink and sink; and this government, together with the rectors, is going to do it, because we're aware of the importance of the university. In any case, as I said in the previous intervention, Galicia has its duties done and will continue to have them. This Autonomous Community has made a change to the titration map on the basis of a consensual decree. [[Laughter]] This Autonomous Community shielded at its time the funding of universities, and I think it would be very good if you sometimes wonder what other universities are doing in research or in paying a day to teachers or in calls for students or research groups, because you would realize that really the Greek situation, not being perfect, obviously, is much better than other autonomous communities in this country. I would also tell you – and already to finish – that what we have to do is to continue to push measures to adapt the University of Galicia to the contemporary world, and especially to the future, and so, as I said, we are working and we are going to work in a consensual way with universities, so that, once these universities tell us what is the organizational model they set for their degrees and their postgraduates, they don't have the slightest doubt that the Council of Galicia will really support them. And in the second step, what we're going to do is evaluate the economic conditions of access to them, given that Galicia is and must continue to be the autonomous community that has the most equitable access, most accessible of all autonomous communities in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u342	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín, G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the opinion of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order regarding the recruitment of a video clip by Enrique Iglesias
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u343	You have the word of Mrs. Pontón to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u344	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, the Council of Galicia has been submitting, since it reached the People's Party Government, our culture to a situation of obvious cuts and economic suffocation; cuts far above the average of budgets these years. Culture policies have been cut by 60% since 2009 and policies to support the normalization of the Welsh language, a 70% cut. All this was said to be in the name of a supposed austerity, not to waste public funds, and that the belt had to be tightened, but we already knew this was a genuine falsehood. In any case, that was the official justification of the Government that you have supported and of which it is now part to justify all the cuts that have been brought about and which are translated into a command of aid that are really rickets. These include: distribution activities for cultural industries, EUR 350,000, a whole year; grants to audiovisual sector festivals for a whole year, EUR 90,000; grants for the development of audiovisual projects in the Galician language, EUR 175,000, that is, distributed in three annualities; music festivals, EUR 210,000; translation aids for the year 2015, EUR 200,000, which are distributed in two annual years; the Galician network of rooms, support for the distribution of our culture, EUR 24,510; periodical publications, written in the Greek language, EUR 46,000; language standardization teams in the centres have, for their annual activities, around EUR 300; and all municipalities in the country have help from the Galician Board for the standardization of the Greek language EUR 300,000. You will understand, Mr Counsellor, that with this overview we share the outrage of thousands of people when you see how the Galician Union gives Mr. Enrique Churches more than 300,000 euros from all the Greeks and the Greeks; those euros that are not to support the language of this country, those euros that are not to support the Greek culture and yet if you can graciously grant Mr. Enrique Iglesias; by course, for a video that is a real scandal, a scandal from the point of view of their sexism and a scandal because I believe it represents one of the strongest advertisements that we have seen: 6,000 euros per second. The truth is, we think it's a very expensive promotion in case of existence, and especially if we consider that it's a little song prayer and it doesn't provide anything from a cultural point of view. I don't know, Counselor, if since noon you've given him time to read the question, because he told us that he was not ready; in any case, so I'm going to read it: do you think the advisor who is logical to pay Enrique Churches more than 300,000 while applying hard cuts to Greek culture?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u345	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u346	Thank you very much, Madam President. You, Mrs. Pontón, try to mix in an interesting way two issues that are quite different, because one thing is Galician tourism promotion and another is support for the cultural sector; one thing is using a video of an international artist as a vehicle of communication, as a strategy of Galician promotion, as a space, as a tourist destination, and another is the role of the Galician Union as an actor of cultural promotion. [[Murmurs.]] One question is tourism policy and another question is the dynamization that the German Government makes of our industry and our cultural values. We are talking – and you here have signaled it – of a video that promotes Galicia as a tourist destination, with which we are talking about a medium, not an end in itself. And, look, I would tell you not to rush, I would ask you to wait to evaluate the return to Galicia's promotion that can have this video; to wait to see whether it's positive or not for Galicia's tourist promotion, because we are talking – I insist – about Galicia's tourist promotion. [[Murmurs]] If you ask me what we do, what the Galician Union does to support our cultural sector, or what it does to the Galician Union to achieve the internationalization of our cultural sector, our creators, or what it does to the Galician Union to place us from culture in the world, I could tell you that we have been making a number of issues that we think are of a lot of interest. For example, not long ago, there was a fair in the City of Culture, the Womex fair, which you will not deny was a real success from the platform point of view for our cultural and platform creators so that our cultural creators could exchange experiences and exchange knowledge with other artists of size and international level. If you ask me what we do to spread our culture in the territory, in the whole of the Galician geography, I'll tell you that there are programs, that there are projects: there's Culture on the way, there's Cinemas in Galicia, etc. You spoke here about subsidies, economic support. Home!, I can tell you that in a very short time we will take direct economic aid orders for film festivals, for distribution of cultural industries, for stage production and for professional festivals, around 1.6 million euros. With which, Mrs. Pontón, I tell you that you don't try to mix; one thing is a policy or a strategy of tourist promotion, that is to say, using a vehicle of tourist promotion, and another thing is support to our creators, support to our culture, which I think is unquestionable, because yes, Mrs. Pontón, we can recognize you that we have less money than on other occasions and that other governments, but we have nothing less commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u348	Thank you. "There is heat in the city/ there is heat in the bay/ come, we went on party/ night and day/ international fusion/ dance, which brings joy/ come, follow the party/ night and day." And I would add, "Come, follow the feast on Galicia." Because it's, uh, PP ladies and gentlemen, what you're doing in this case. [[Murmurs.]] I thought -- calm down -- that this reminded us a lot -- calm, calm -- I thought this reminded us a lot... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u349	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u350	...to the Pope's visit, I don't know if you remember, 3 million euros. He told us he was going to self-finance himself and produce surpluses, and the only thing he left was a poof, a 3 million euro poof that we paid all the Greeks and all the galleys, and a poof that you didn't pay to the whole hostel sector, to whom he embarked on a visit that was going to be the world center, which he was going to bring here I don't know how many thousands of people, and Santiago was empty that day. This is a real waste. You know perfectly well that this contract is not made because it responds to any kind of tourist promotion of the Galician Union, it is done by pressure from a person who has particular interests and who is receiving public money at the cost of getting all of us hair. And, look, what's our question, Counselor? It's very simple: you have to tell us, as cultural advisor, that is responsible at this time for the situation of our culture -- a culture that has suffered cuts, and cuts means job destruction, and cuts means that the Greek culture is getting smaller and smaller -- that is, we have increasingly limited access to culture and a very important part of the cuts that you make. So I ask the culture councillor of this country: when almost none of his advisor's aid orders exceed the amount of EUR 300,000 in the field of culture and language, does it seem decent that the board gave EUR 300,000 to Enrique Churches? It's easy, answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u351	Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u352	Mrs. Pontón, I see you saw the video, I think you've... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u353	Silence, please, I think you now have the word of the Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] I'm asking you to listen. You spoke to Mrs. Pontón and I think it's up to him to speak to the councilman, and not to Mr. Fajardo either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u354	Nothing, I just wanted to say that if Mrs. Pontón saw the video is already something positive, the video has already achieved something very difficult, because, look, Mrs. Pontón, if I wanted to discredit BNG's cultural and tourist policy here, it would have been very easy to pull it from the hemerotheque; it would have been absolutely easy to pull it out of the hemerotheque. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, I'm not gonna do it because I think you've already paid your penance, you've got it paid; so, I don't think you're going anywhere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I'm going to tell you a question where you will agree with me: tourism is important to Galicia, and culture is important to Galicia too. And the latest tourist attraction data I think are very positive in Galicia. It is very positive in Galicia cultural tourism, for example, the Way of Santiago, which this year is the year that most visitors had of their history. With which, something will really be done well. And the same could be said of the data from the Greek cultural industry, which also don't have a picture as "black shadow" as you put it here. Of course there are things to improve; now, you will give credibility to data from the Galeg Culture Observatory. I suppose you will give credibility, and I'm going to tell you, that you are so concerned about the creators and the jobs that are generated around the cultural creation of this country, that we are around 30,000 workers in the cultural industries of this country and that we are one of the autonomous communities with the highest percentage of workers in cultural industries, and I think that's very important. You're wrong when you say there's no subsidy orders above 300,000. You will soon see an order of €600,000 in the DOG, you will see an order of €600,000 in a short time, as you would have had to see – if you had done a thorough follow-up – that last year for the audiovisual sector – only for the audiovisual sector – there was an amount of €2.5 million in economic aid to support the production, distribution and marketing of audiovisual products – €2.5 million. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Finished, Mrs. Pontón. I'm glad – we're glad – that you've seen that video – I'm sure you'll see a lot of people – also contributing with your criticism to the dissemination and promotion of tourism. And, I insist, don't confuse your tourism promotion with cultural promotion. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I repeat to you what I said before: we may have less money, this government may have less money, but we do not admit that we doubt our commitment to Greek culture. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the modification of the order established by the Sardinian Management Plan in Iberian Waters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u355	Mr. Balsairo has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, I believe that we all agree on the social and economic importance that for many coastal towns in Galicia has the fishing use of the sardine; importance for the Welsh fleet, especially for the fence sector, and also for the fishing, processing and marketing industry. In this line we must highlight several advances, among them, the modification of the Ministerial Order governing the Plan for the Management of Sardinia in Iberian Waters, published in the Official Gazette of the State of Friday, January 9, 2015; regulations applied and applicable in the waters of VIIIc and IXa of the International Council for the Exploitation of the Sea; that is, the Cantabria northwest from Basque Country to Fisterra, and from the mouth of the Bidisoa and from Fisterra to the Gulf of Cadiz, including Portugal. The final objective is to determine new technical measures, new measures necessary for the conservation of this species and to ensure the socio-economic development linked to its exploitation; whereas with this plan - we must not forget, Counsellor - whether it is avoiding unilateral imposition of a TAC by the European Union which would be much more restrictive. He's trying to avoid, Counselor, cuts up to 20%. But no doubt one of the most outstanding aspects of this change has the fleet as its protagonist. They demanded to be able to fish, they demanded to have a specific and own quota to be able to do so. It was a suit that made the Council itself and defended Galicia to the central government. It's a claim that emerges from the labor by hand of the sector and of the Union. And the question posed to you by this parliamentary group and this honourable Member, Counsellor, is: what assessment does the Council of Galicia make of the amendment of the Order establishing the Management Plan for Sardinia in Iberian waters? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u357	The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u358	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, as you said and as you well know, since May 26th, we have been doing a joint work between the Administration and the sector through the Sectoral Commission of Research on the Galician Fisheries Council. And from this joint work, and since August the first version of the Sardinian Management Plan has been published, it has continued to work, and the result of this work is this order which you referred to and which was published last January 9th, so that it changed to the July 30th 2014 version, and which brings about substantial changes in matters such as the catch limit, closing dates or download tops. But the most important change is given to the fleet in the way, to whom this fishing is significantly affected, and who, with this modification, and as our commitment was, can continue fishing for Sardinia, can continue fishing for the sardine in the way and can do it by counting on one's own quota. Since then, we have introduced into order the possibility that this Sardinian fishing fleet will do it with a 200-ton coupon, which, with data approaching the sector and the confrries, would amount to more than an average annual catch in the last ten years, which is 179-ton. From that moment on, it's clear that I'm choking conflicting voices, but I think I have this exclusive quota and doing it with positive figures about the captures coming in years ago, maybe when it comes to a species that didn't count on the quota before, it's important. Besides, by deepening in this comparison between captures, quota arrangements and petitions, we have a recent demand that around 1,500 tons a year, of which 70 would be only for the month of January for the fleet of the way. Well, in the same month of January, the captures made in the way amounted to 1.8 tons; and in 2014, in the same month, there were 960 kilograms, quite less than the request they were making to us. Since then, we must join this comparison to another positive point which is based on the favourable consideration of this concession by the sector which makes most of the catches of sardines, and that is to be thanked and taken into account in this context where the situation of sardines is limited. Finally, we work with the sector and with the central and autonomous governments so that, despite this difficult biological situation, no sector had any chance of fishing in Sardinia, and we try to provide the best situation, within the difficulty for our fleet, seeking the best fishing quota for the entire fleet. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Balsairo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u360	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, we welcome that the way you can catch Sardinian, that it was a commitment that the Government of Galicia had, and we welcome that the way you have a quota above the average that you've had in the last ten years, that the average you've had in the last ten years was 179 tons and the quota you've got right now is 200 tons. Madam Counsellor, as you know well – or you know better than anyone – the Popular Parliamentary Group in this House has always been concerned about the fishing use of Sardinia, and we have always been concerned because, before any group, we have brought initiatives to this House in that sense. We were the ones who brought an initiative – which at that time did not count on the support of the opposition groups – which was that the agreement of the Galician Fisheries Council was the basis for negotiating in Galicia. And at that time, the parliamentary group was already saying this, and you were in the full past too; it was saying that first there was consensus with the Cantabrian autonomous communities, after consensus with Andalusia, after consensus with Portugal and that finally had to be agreed with the European Commission. Yesterday, Madam Counsellor, there were some political groups that said that in the Sardinian Management Plan this did not appear. Unfortunately, it can happen when you're not even consensual with all those people. But on yesterday's day, Counsellor – and I finish, Madam President – gave a theme – that I beg you, that you are an expert in fishing, that does not catch you laughing; there was here a group that first said that in the VIIIb you could not fish Sardinia, and then said that in the VIIIb you could only fish the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Well, that's fake. It's true that VIIIb isn't in the plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Balsairo, your time is up. Mr. Balsairo! [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The advisor's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, look, I can tell you that in this case, as in all those who have to do with the sectors I represent, I will continue to work with responsibility, with rigor and with dedication. With responsibility because we don't want simple paths but that eventually bring us complications; strictly because the data we handle will always be the best at our disposal so they can't call us deceit in any forum; and with dedication because we will work in every possible forum. We are telling the truth from the beginning. There is the possibility that the European Union will subject us to a possible TAC, and we want to avoid it by all means. In that line we are working, and for that we are proposing management measures that must, of course, be consistent with all the autonomous communities of the Cantabria and also with the neighbouring country, Portugal. And we believe that with the arguments we're working with, with the data we're providing, with the rigour we're doing it, we're going to be able to convince the Portuguese and the autonomous neighbouring communities that they understand that this management plan proposed by Galicia is best possible to prevent people from outside from coming to tell us how we should better manage this fleet. As for the areas, fishing zones have existed since Spain entered the European Union. Everyone knows what our access conditions are. One thing is that a Greek doesn't want to go fishing there and another thing is that he can or can't do it; of course he can. Moreover, with the flexibility that you have now achieved in this last negotiation to the Minister of the Kingdom of Spain, we can move some of the fishing opportunities we have in areas where we traditionally do not go to the nearest areas, which we can still use. So, what it's about is to keep working on this line with rigour, dedication and, of course, always looking for the best for our sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u363	Thank you very much. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to irregularities detected in the management of the Food Technology Centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u364	Mr Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u365	Good afternoon, Counselor. You are the vice president of the Food Technology Center Patronate, the Cetal; you are, in addition, the most responsible of the Rural Media Council, directly related to the functions of this foundation. You will know, therefore, that Cetal is a public foundation, based in Lugo, which has the main function of empowering, boosting and dynamizing the agri-food sector. In addition, you will know that Cetal has counted on an investment for its construction of 5.3 million euros and that, once merged with the Milky Technology Centre, it adds more than 12 million euros of financial investments. You will also know – we suppose – that a few days ago the Treasurer of the Cetal Foundation and President of Sogama, Mr. Luis Lamas, had to resign from his office on the occasion of a contract signed between the foundation and his own office of lawyers. You will finally know the Counsellor that the AGE Group has called for the termination of the CEO of Cetal at most responsible for the contract signed by Mr. Lamas' office. The internal recruitment instructions of the Foundation itself do not mean that the Director General, Mr López Viana, has an obligation to review all contracts negotiated by this public body. If the director of Cetal is the most responsible of this institution, if he is the most responsible for signing the contract, why not ask for his termination as well? We don't understand why the German Government is trying to protect Mr. López Viana and we don't understand why the case cited is not at all the only scandal in which Cetal is immersed. The Court of Auditors of the State, in its audit report adopted in May 2014, found illegalities and irregularities in the seventeen contracts issued by the Cetal Foundation during the year 2012, to all of the contracts awarded; irregularities ranging from the failure to advertise itself in the adjudication, exceeding the limit of minor contracts above the one laid down by law, payment of advances in contracts, violating the regulatory framework, and a long et cetera. On the other hand, the audit conducted by the State General Intervention on the last accounts presented detected an excess of EUR 12 million in cash, while the Cetal remains paralyzed as far as the performance of its functions is concerned. And the agribusiness and food sector, of course, is in need of research and impulse. Really, Counselor, does it seem to you that, with which you are falling, all this is normal? The German Government contributed €250,000 in 2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u366	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Vázquez Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vázquez. It's over or your time. The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u367	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vázquez, of course, the Greek Government will always take those measures which, in the defence of the legality and scrupulously comply with it, if they have considered them timely and necessary, always ensuring equality criteria, with the application of precise legal guarantees and without applying parallel judgments. I say this because it seems that there are those who, acting as judges on a part-time basis, have qualified some situations described in the initiative as manifest illegalities, there are very few dates, and at two days already qualified them as irregularities detected. You'll understand that between one and the other half an important third and that between something that's illegal and something that fits the moral or ethical aspect that's also half that. I think the fact that this last guy has already dealt with Mr. Lamas' resignation, and he is honored to determine that he was wrong in assuming his consequences. I'm still going over there, because some people also talk about contracts for end-to-end contracts beyond the foundation, not to mention that much of these contracts are related to issues such as maintenance of lifts, supply of electricity, improvement of parking lots or other similar ones, as if the availability of correct and safe facilities were not necessary. But, going to the issue, sir, I have to point out that the Board is and will be in this process to take action and demand responsibilities as long as there are problems of illegality, and it goes by what the Court of Auditors or judicial bodies determines, also asking for political responsibilities, if that is the case. That is why we want all the recommendations and observations of the Court of Auditors to be taken into account, taking the appropriate measures to resolve them, including the clearance of the relevant political responsibilities, if they exist, but always once the procedure is complied with and when the investigation process is completed open by the report drawn up by the court itself. I mean, we don't evade responsibilities, but we don't oppose them either with no evidence or with respect to the allegations. To move forward, as they have already done in some cases in this community, with some mayor in particular, may give rise to situations where the parallel trial is actually overturned, since in this case allegations have been made to that report and you can act at the mercy of the Court of Auditors' Act, since the accounts have been audited by the State General Intervention, and there are already internal recruitment instructions approved by the State Counsel's report. I think it's necessary to leave room for prudence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Vázquez Díaz's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u369	Counsellor, the German Government is giving practically a congress of philosophy when it speaks of taking responsibility, exhausting language nuances and stretching language to unbearable limits. That's what we're used to, but what we should never get used to is the ignorance and lies of the members of this government. I want to think it's ignorance – because it would be unbearable to think it's a lie – to say that the Court of Auditors' report is not definitive. It was adopted by the Court of Auditors on 29 May 2014. He started his parliamentary procedure, with reference to the realization of the dictatorship, by the Joint Parliamentary Commission, and was voted by the majority of Parliament at Parliament's meetings on 17 and 18 December. On January 27, the resolution of December 22 was published in the Official Gazette of the State. In that statement, the Government is urged to remedy the shortcomings contained in the Court of Auditors' report on public sector entities. The report is final, the dictatorship is final. I do not understand that caution, which is too prudent, is intended to exhaust the Counsellor when the report is conclusive and parliamentary procedure as well. That said, for us, the greatest severity is not only the illegality detected by the Court of Auditors – not by this parliamentary group – but the absence of real work for the agricultural sector by Cetal. I'm going to quote some of the expenses set out in the 2013 Cetal audit: 3,000 euros for institutional flags – I suppose they will be silk flags –; 100,000 euros to lift the explanation of the entrance, planned by concrete, opened in 2013 and renewed by another granite – 100,000 euros –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u370	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. [[Mr. Vázquez Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Mr. Vázquez... [[Applause]] The advisor of the Middle Rural and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vázquez, I've already said it at first, if you had to clear responsibility, you'll get rid of responsibilities, don't worry; we're like this, not like you... of course. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, it's you... but, let's see, Mr. Vázquez, tranquility. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the Court of Auditors' report is not a judgment, it's just a monitoring report on seven foundations, and one of those foundations, the one on Cetal. The procurement processes are analysed; the contracts were established in accordance with internal procurement standards adopted in December 2008, and these contracts were established in accordance with those rules. When it was found that there could be some kind of discrepancy with those internal rules of recruitment, the new president of the Cetal, in Mr. Arias Cañete's time, changed the recruitment rules to adapt them to the reality of State Counsel. Therefore, only 5 of the 25 conclusions coming from the Court of Auditors affect the Cetal. There is no definitive theme yet, Mr Vázquez. Something that came out of you in June, which was dealt with in all the media, didn't bother you until Mr. Lamas's topic came out now. What you want is a political issue, not of operational responsibilities; what we want is the issue of operating responsibilities... Cetal is a institute that must be to serve the Spanish agri-food sector, and, essentially, since it is in Galicia, we want you to work for the Greek sector as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And on that line we're going to work, and if we have to take responsibility, don't hesitate for a second if we take them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-25-DSPG099.u372	The agenda is run out, the session is up.
