ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Bojan Starman and Mr Roberto Battelli. I welcome everyone else here. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Let me remind you that, in the framework of the 32nd extraordinary meeting at this point on 11 April 2013, we have already carried out a supplementary explanation of the applicant, a presentation of the Government's opinion and a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. Today we are moving on to a debate on the first and second sections of the proposal for a constitutional law. Before I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I ask if the President of the Government wishes to speak. I give the word "magic." Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Good-bye, everybody! Dear Members and Members! There is no time in Slovenia for political overtures and blockades. There have been too many of these in recent years, so today we are here where we are. The decision to suggest that you support the proposal before you today was not easy. Above all, my decision to propose this to my colleagues and colleagues was not easy. I've done a lot of talking in the past about the fiscal rule, even when I was sitting among you in these parliamentary benches. The fact is that Positive Slovenia has also supported the initiation of a constitutional change procedure, and the fact is that the only thing that has always bothered us is the excessive pace of consolidation. When I took office as Prime Minister of the Government, I promised to work for the good of the people and the states. This move we're going to make today is going this way. It is a responsible act that goes beyond the logic of client interests, and it is for everyone, not just some or just one party. I have told you many times before that we must put things in order for ourselves and not for Brussels, and I would like to say it clearly and loudly today. What we do and do ours and my government, we do for ourselves and not for the demands of anyone from abroad. However, the fact that in its opinion, which you also have before you, the Government has committed itself to drawing up a new proposal for an implementing law on the basis of this decision, which will regulate all necessary solutions and, above all, to determine the implementation or implementation of the fiscal rule. This is how budget planning achieves respect for the rule of medium-term balance of income and expenditure. Finally, allow all of you, especially the Slovenian public, to say that Slovenia will remain a solidarity and social state, because it also says so in our constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, President of the Government, Ministers and Minister! What is important today is that we explain very clearly to the public before we decide what we are taking. Before I address this issue, it must also be said that yesterday there have been quite a few speculations about the fact, who has ever made a decision, who has gone to Brussels for advice or has received a message about what to do. Let me tell you that this was decided by the Group of Members before Brussels, Tuesday, not Wednesday, so that there will be no other way of thinking. But that doesn't change the fact. The questions are open and very clear: What do we accept? On the one hand, we have a group of people or a camp or a party who is convinced that the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution is absolutely unnecessary, because we have achieved what the previous governments or the President of the governments have committed by approving and ratifying an international treaty. Let me not forget that the other party, who is convinced that the introduction of fiscal rules into the Constitution advocates a single and saving move, is the only right thing to do, because the only way to save the Slovenian country is through the following steps, can be very confusing. In Positive Slovenia, we talked a lot about what it means to introduce a fiscal rule with the 2015 anniversary. After consultations with experts, with an explanation of the Government, which gave its very clear opinion, and based on the views that we have drawn up within the party and the parliamentary group, we have decided to support the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution with one fact: only a fiscal rule means absolutely nothing unless there is an implementing law. The implementing law will only be the one that dictates the criteria and criteria for how we will achieve a balance of public finances. This is what all three actors say — the government, experts and those who are and we are advocates — that the goal that is common to all players in this Chamber must be achieved in the final stage. This is that we are in favour of balancing public finances in the country. That's the point, the question is how else to get there. In Positive Slovenia we have also decided to support this because there is a lot of fear and shaking against the fiscal rule – what this means in terms of saving, the way of life, the quality of life in the country. Yesterday we were accompanied by a speech by one of the union representatives who made it very clear that this means minus 30%, minus 50% – I will not even list anything because you know it all together. I'm talking about pensions, I'm talking about salaries, I'm talking about costs. This does not mean that, and Positive Slovenia will never and will never agree to this, at least not in such a way that something is simply cut off. We are talking about the need to balance public finances in the medium term, which means that we understand this by means of a formula that is set up and by means of an implementing law we achieve this in some foreseeable time of 5, 8 years, and we also make exceptions to when to continue to be indebted, especially when we are talking about the need to return what Slovenia has been indebted to in the past 20 years. More needs to be done, not just by introducing a fiscal rule. The fiscal rule in the first place introduces only one – political stability and an end to the discussion on whether or not public finances should be balanced. To end this discussion and focus on the second most important work – the drive for economic growth, the rehabilitation of banks, and most importantly, to get out of this crisis. That is why, I believe, Members and Members of Positive Slovenia and I will personally support the introduction of fiscal rules into the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I now give the floor to Mrs Romani Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Ministers, ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I am also starting a debate under the impression of yesterday's agreement by all leaders of parliamentary parties on entering a fiscal rule into the constitution. I think it's right that he's out of his mind, and this time he is. In this context, I would also like to congratulate the President of the Government for being able to take this step, because for her too, given what has been said about the fiscal rule, it took courage and reason to take this step. A similar meeting that took place yesterday took place more than a year ago, in March 2012, when, with the majority, all the presidents of the parliamentary parties united that the entry of the Golden Fiscal Rule into the Constitution was necessary. The government rushed by measures, immediately proposed material to the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission started its work and carried it out. Then something went wrong. They changed their minds, changed their minds, and everything went wrong. We missed a very valuable time and missed the opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity today in Slovenia differently than it is. We have not only lost time, we have also lost much credibility against the entire world public, and it is clear today that we have paid very dearly for the decision we made at that time and to disagree at that time. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always insisted on the same proposal. We used to think the same way when we were a government party today. The fiscal rule is enshrined in the Constitution, with the year 2015. The reasons why we believe that this rule is necessary as soon as possible and in the highest possible act remain the same. We are very well aware that we can only spend as much for a long time as we create, and we are very well aware that managing public finances is essential to the functioning of each country. We are aware that debt without economic growth leads in the long term to a loss of sovereignty and that it leads to a break in the social state and that in such a case the highest price is paid by those who are the weakest, have the least wealth and have the least privilege in society. We are aware that, in the past, we have come a little off track with irrational decisions and have threatened not only our future but also the future of our children, and that we therefore need to make clear the framework as soon as possible which limits such irrational decisions to the future and which bind every time the government to not decide on the basis of some partial interests, but to decide in the long term for the benefit of this country and this society. As we all say, this is also a clear signal abroad that by consolidating public finances we are serious. For these reasons and because of this awareness and because we had clear objectives, a clear strategy and very well-designed measures, we have never seen the Slovenian Democratic Party of the fiscal rule as a threat, but we have seen it, especially as an opportunity and as a help in guiding economic policy and also social policy. The aim of this policy is not to preserve monopolies, it is not to preserve privileges, it is the welfare of all people. The threats we hear every day, what will happen to us because of the fiscal rule, are populism deception. The fiscal rule alone is not a reason for pensions, public sector wages, the social state, the level of the social state to be drastically lower. Especially for those who have earned pensions with a long-term commitment, for those who are doing well, for those who are currently in severe social distress. There's no reason, but it's an excuse, and there's a danger. That the reasons for introducing the fiscal rule are premeditated and that the delay in its introduction to Slovenia has been very harmful in the SDS all the time. We warned for a long time, hours and hours we spent on it, we discussed it for months, and Brussels obviously only spent 15 minutes to reach the same conclusions. What led up to such a decision is likely to be explained by those who were present. The change in decision is now completely secondary. What is important is that we today make the right decision to take a decision to enter a fiscal rule into the constitution, because obviously those on whom we have become dependent because of our irrational decisions have offered us a way out through Shivanka's ear. It is probably very difficult to admit that the measures taken by the Janša government were steps in the right direction, leading to an exit from the crisis and that their halting was a very bad signal and a great harm to Slovenia. With these measures, Slovenia would now be able to breathe more easily and be in a different situation than we are. Respect for the government's fiscal rule and for all of us it won't be an easy task, but it's not impossible. It will take a lot of knowledge, a lot of energy, and a lot of courage to realize it. For the beginning of this journey it would be good to pour ourselves a clean wine, yet once to admit where we are, and to tell us what image of Slovenia we want in the future. Do we want to preserve the existing monopolies, the existing social relations, or do we want to have the leaves that literally threaten us before we decide on such important decisions as it is today before we enter? Do we want to preserve this condition? On the other hand, do we want a society that will be different, based on sound foundations that will be modern and that will follow the spirit of time? It is also high time that we stop looking for external enemies, that we stop accusing Brussels of putting an end to the charges against the houses and all the rest of the world that they are guilty of the problems we are in. They're not. It's our fault that we're off the road and that we're in this situation, and it's right to admit it. But to conclude, at this point, we have one last chance, probably a historic one, and we have the opportunity and the responsibility to decide our future on our own. Writing a fiscal rule, today's vote for, is a step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u7	Thank you, too. I give my word to Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats are aware that since the signing of the fiscal pact on 2 March 2012 and later its ratification in the National Assembly on 19 April 2012, our country has been obliged to respect the commitments of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, as the fiscal pact is fully appointed. This fiscal pact provides that the budgetary situation of the State party's sector must be balanced in the medium term. The country must move rapidly towards its medium-term objective. The time frame for approximation is proposed by the European Commission, taking into account the risks to the country's sustainability. As far as Slovenia is concerned, it is important to stress that our tight economic situation, especially in last year and this year, requires us to achieve a reasonable and gradual balance of public finances. Social Democrats believe that we must do everything we can to avoid jeopardising the foundations of the social state and avoiding possible grave interference with social transfers, public health, public education, social protection and the like. It is therefore very important, in this respect, that we also present this vision to the European Commission and all other important stakeholders in this process, with strong arguments. Since a ratified contract is a document that must be respected in the internal legal order, we believe that Slovenia must respect this rule in the preparation of its budgets, whether it is a bill or a special law. In doing so it is important to have a properly defined, as the fiscal pact says, a medium-term objective and also possible derogations in exceptional circumstances. The Fiscal Pact provides that we are obliged by the States Parties to incorporate the relevant fiscal rules into our legislation by 1 January 2014, which will then be a condition for the granting of aid under the European Stability Mechanism, if necessary. On the basis of these facts, I believe that we must write down our Slovenian targets for the medium-term correction of the structural deficit into the Constitution or the law adopted by the constitutional majority. In view of the current state of public finances, I estimate that this abolition will not take place in 2015, but will have to take into account the achievement of the medium-term objective set in the years following 2015. As it is said, setting this medium-term objective is a matter of negotiating with the European Commission and countries can also set themselves a target year for balancing public finances, but they must do so in real terms and taking into account all the risks. If we want to incorporate a fiscal rule into the constitution, it would be right to stick to the content of a fiscal pact that does not specify the yearbooks. Our obstacle, an obstacle to the adoption of a fiscal rule in the domestic legal order, is not just the fact that public finances need to be balanced, but an unrealistic year of implementation. Social Democrats and I are personally well aware that, for the first time, international treaties need to be respected that, secondly, public finances need to be balanced in the medium term, but thirdly, we also expect that the measures we take to this end will not increase the risks to the survival of our citizens in a social, economically effective and legal state. To this end, we will participate actively and with great care in the drafting of the implementing law to enforce the fiscal rule and also in its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovich will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Nice greetings, distinguished presidents, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are very pleased that in this good month of three days we have managed to gather enough wisdom to talk today about the social acceptance of this change of constitution and the constitutionalization of both the fiscal rule and the amendment of referendum legislation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have shown many times in the past and have shown that in our decision-making, what is good for the country is above all what is good for the country, regardless of whether we are in the coalition or in the opposition. This state-of-the-art attitude has sometimes brought us some ridicule, sometimes a fall in the result, but we are certainly proud that in the past we have also supported pension legislation as an opposition party, that last year, as a government party, we have convinced and talked about the need to adopt a fiscal rule, referendum legislation, and that, even now as an opposition party, we want responsible, for the good of the country, these two constitutional changes to support, adopt and change our legal order. In Slovenia, we must be aware that in these good 20 years of independence, there was a period in which we had actually reached the age of majority – in 2008 – of the period when the world economy was around. In the rush of this global conjuncture, we have lived well in Slovenia, we have done much to develop our beautiful country, and we have forgotten that worse years can come in good years. This happened at the time of the global crisis, at which we mistakenly assessed in Slovenia that the situation would be resolved very quickly in its own right and that in a few years we would return to the situation as it had been before, and so since 2008 we have made a number of mistakes. The errors were also made in the years until 2008. Today, we all know that high consumption, corporate indebtedness and, above all, unhappiness and crime have been equipped to take over businesses by owners, business directors, the big mistakes that we all pay together today and we will have to define ourselves and clearly remedy them in the coming months. It is also true that in 2009, 2010, 2011, when we doubled our public debt from 8 billion to 16 billion, we did not react properly. Last year, an attempt was made to reduce public spending to some extent. As a government, we were very attacked by the opposition at the time. The public also viewed this as a false step. Thank God we've all come together so much now, May 2013, and we know that the fiscal rule is absolutely necessary. What we have done at this time will be paid in the future. These numbers are very serious. From what we have already said, Slovenia now owes 4 000 debt to an individual EUR 10, 11 000 debt to an individual. We're all aware of what this means when it comes to paying interest. Another major problem is that they no longer believe us on a European and global scale. If we were a model in Europe until the time of the Council's presidency, we were at a time when we could not react and when we were doing stupid things, when we argued in Parliament, when we moved among our people, we lost confidence elsewhere. The price of this is that today we are paying undue and shamelessly high interest, which threatens the financial sovereignty of the State. Colleagues and colleagues, today it is necessary to recognise and say that if we adopted a fiscal rule last May, and on the fact that we owed more than 4 billion euros this year for the next 5 to 10 years, we paid at least 2% more than we paid those who were before or 2% or 1.5% higher than we would have otherwise. This means that at this level, at the expense of our taxpayers, to the detriment of the social state, we have spent between €40 million and €80 million annually, which we will pay for the next 5 to 10 years, depending on the size of these bonds. This is so much so, dear colleagues and colleagues, as respected colleague Virant has managed to agree with the public sector on how much savings will be made in salaries. But we're going to be paying this for the next 5, 10 years through the more expensive price of the money we're renting for our own stupidity. I think it's right that we are aware of this and that we will be serious, responsible from here on out. We have a very difficult task ahead of us. Today, as has already been said, we accept a change in the constitution with which we do not solve the problem. We will only write very responsiblely into the Constitution that we are finally a mature nation, a mature country that will spend as much as it creates, and that we will respect this in our policies from now on. Not until today. On this basis, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I must reiterate my disappointment at what we have adopted this week in the National Assembly. On the basis of an agreement between the unions and the Government, it has been stated that we will not intervene in the wage spending side for two years and it has been stated that even strikes will be paid from this title. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this will be a mortgage when we write an implementing law, when we look at what tax still needs to be introduced, which tax rate still needs to be increased to be a truly serious and responsible economy. I have to say that I am very afraid, and I think we made a mistake this week, and that it was the doing of the President of the Government, the Government and also the coalition at the time when I heard from this pay phone that I was responsible for a 30% reduction in wages, pensions, social transfers, the wrong signal. With this rhetoric we will have to stop and all of us will clearly look into the eyes. The trust we have lost in the financial markets has also been lost in our people, respected colleagues. Yesterday was a very unpleasant trip to the government. I have no reason in my life to hear from anyone that I'm a thief. However, the Slovenian public tells us that we are thieves because we perform public functions and because we want to work responsibly. The fact that citizens and citizens whistle whistle with whistles in front of their faces and compare you to a thief, as a member of the National Assembly, I do not allow myself as a member of the National Assembly! In 50 years of my life, I haven't done anything like that that someone on the street would have to treat me like a thief! Today we are called upon to stop the rhetoric that we have both, the coalition and the opposition, and to start doing serious and responsible work. What you accepted in the government yesterday was the truth in the 2013 budget rebalancing, when we see that there is a deficit of 960 million within four months – I do not know how we will respect all the agreements signed. I don't know who else we can tax enough to lock up these scissors and put them all together in the framework of a fiscal rule. However, it is essential that we accept it in order to start acting seriously and responsibly that the new bonds that we issue will no longer be 6% more in order to be 4% normal. Debt was on average 8 billion by 2008, with an average debt of 3.8% for that debt. We're paying him 5.5 and more today, and we're wondering if anyone else will give us the money. Finally, we walk as those most indebted people walked on some almost half-gray market to be indebted because there is still money there, because someone is counting on the European community to be solidarity with us. That from these speakers, from Parliament, we say that we are doing this for the sake of Europe, that we are being pressured by Christian democracy with Angela Merkel at the helm, which was heard a month ago behind these speakers – I'm sorry, we have to stop and look the truth in the eye and act honestly. I think today is a really broken day. I am very pleased to note that we are united in this part, but I sincerely hope that we will be united in the interests of our children, for the good of Slovenia, from now on, when we really have to follow the fiscal rule. Writing it into the Constitution is the right thing to say — let’s not do anything about it. It will now be necessary to find out where the 200 million that the Secretary-General for Finance has said that we will reduce them in the second wave in this year's financial balance and in respect of the stability programme that we have given a little while ago and will now receive an assessment. In this part, I think that if we want to make good for this country, we must all, from now on, substantially change rhetoric and act as a government and a parliament that wants good for this country, and stop this mutual accusation and find someone to blame for it. I think it's right to look the truth in the eye and admit that in these years everyone has done something wrong. However, this truth must be clear, honest. Only when we can talk about it and admit it to ourselves will we be able to go out on the street together, without someone protecting someone from making those policies that we've been saying for the past two months or for the last few years, will the street be very cooperative for some thieves. We're not thieves. We want to act honestly. Every honest citizen, every honest household, every individual, knows that he can spend as much as he creates. That's what we're talking about today, and I want us all to be aware of it. In our rhetoric, we have reality in our eyes first. Let's see what the reality of our finances is, and then let's find out which people who hide taxes need to collect taxes where customs should be sent to the financial police and find those who hide their earnings. Is there anything wrong with our state subsystems? I don't know. In the textual agreement, you wrote that no one should talk to university professors and universities by the end of the following year, on behalf of the State, about whether it is possible to have a few hours a week of lectures. I don't know if that's how they're gonna solve it. If we continue to push our heads into the sand when we find that there are too many high school students, that we do not have professions, when we continue to find that 80, 90% of our youth are going to study so that by the age of 30, 50% of the next year, when they make college, they buy their social peace through student affairs. Here's the real thing. And to see if we have local self - government properly organized, whether any authority from the country needs to be transferred to the congregations, or whether greater activities need to be carried on from smaller congregations to the congregation community, or something like that. Until we look the truth in the eye and start solving these problems, this country will not be able to comply with fiscal rules. This rhetoric, with which we all defend existing issues to the point of disability, without admitting what is wrong and correcting it, we need to change and start doing it. I hope that today's message and the signal we give with the uniform support of the change of constitution is a real signal of different behaviour in the Slovenian political space, because from here we will also transfer the behaviour to Slovenian streets. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the fiscal rule, just as we have supported it all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Bogovich. Before I give the floor to the next debate, I just want to say that I missed the mag because of the substantially amended list of candidates for the debate. Katarina Hotchevar, who should be given a word before Mr Bogovic, by correcting this mistake, I apologize and give the word magi. Katarina Hotchevar, prepare for Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. I welcome you all together on behalf of the National Gazette! Yesterday one of the union representatives said that the Slovenian government had changed its position on the fiscal rule out of fear of Brussels. The Civil Code is also part of this government and we have supported the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution since the beginning of the talks on this topic. I am sure that, like the other Members of the Parliament, we will confirm this today, not out of fear of Brussels, but out of responsibility for future generations. "The procrastination markets are seen as weakness," said Minister Cuffer, and I agree with him that it is time for us to decide on this subject for once, because there are still too many areas where action will have to be taken quickly and decisively. The second paragraph of the Public Finance Act already stipulated that the budget should be balanced between revenue and expenditure. Did we stick to that? No, no, no. Political thinking has unfortunately gone in the past 20 years in a way that is why the ruling coalition would not lose what someone behind us, and in this way buy new elections. In this way, politics has worked in Slovenia and that is why we must face painful cuts today, not just in politics. I therefore believe that the constitutional provision has sufficiently ensured that we will not have to face such painful cuts in the next crisis. The fiscal rule is not intended for current political needs. This is about balancing consumption within the economic cycle. According to Umar's structural deficit estimates, between 2004 and 2008, between 7% and 8% of GDP of the cumulative public financial surplus would be able to cool down the overheated economy first and, in the recession, anti-crisis measures could be much easier to implement. With today's confirmation of the burden of excessive consumption, it will no longer be possible to transfer to our children in the form of growing public debt, social rights reduction, etc. There is much work to be done in coordinating and negotiating the implementing law. I'm sure we'll find a compromise. In these times, I want as many agreements and compromises as possible and consensus as we have received at the political summit yesterday. If we Members of the National Gazette confirm on Tuesday with clenched teeth what goes hand in hand with us liberals – raising taxes – and stepping out of customer trenches ourselves, we will today, with much more peaceful conscience, confirm the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we welcome yesterday's agreement on the top of Slovenian politics, because we are convinced that a fiscal rule must be entered into the Constitution without delay and thus stop the excessive indebtedness of Slovenia. By 2015, we need to balance public finances as much as possible, which will not be an easy and simple task, but it is the only meaningful solution that ensures the survival of the country. In New Slovenia, we cannot agree that we will continue to spend inappropriately more than we produce. With a dizzying debt, we will only be closer to the bankruptcy of the country every year and to the total collapse of social and any other security that many refer to. Because of the headless debt with which social peace has been maintained for at least a few years, we have already witnessed the collapse of Yugoslavia and the multi-year war that followed. Fortunately, at least during this time, the Slovenians were united and determined to get on our feet. With independence, our centuries-old dreams have come true and we have begun to build our country. I am sure that none of us want the financial collapse of a country that would surely be accompanied by major social unrest, perhaps even a revolution and, God forbid, another fratricidal war. Slovenia is a serious patient who needs proper diagnosis, rapid and effective treatment. Despite increasing treatment methods and effective medications, it usually does not go without pain, especially if more intervention is needed or even surgery is needed. We must be aware that Slovenia is a serious patient who can only be treated with collective strength. Those citizens who say they have done good and fair work and are not guilty of such a situation are right. Those who say that thieves should be locked up and taken from them what they stole. Today we heard they caught Hilda. At the same time, I thought that she had done the best she could in recent years with her escape, not because I support her escape, but because through her escape, what holes were in our justice system. I hope that those responsible will see this and do what is right. Those who say that some have wrongly acquired much of the wealth that we have created together are also right. Those, too, who say that politicians have been mismanaged by the country. How right those who say that money created by working in Slovenia must return from tax havens and fill the gaps in our tax box. It is also true that those who are weakly observing and opposed to enriching a handful of people with immorally high wages, who are more than ten times higher than the lowest wage in the company. Those who say that the country is poorly mastered with its assets are also right, so it must be sold to those who will manage it well and responsibly and pay taxes to the state treasury. They are also right to say that we must preserve the social state, not support those who do not want to work or just exploit our social system. Those who feel that our unions do not keep pace with time are right. In this way, they protect the rights of an increasing number of employees and prevent greater flexibility in employment and, above all, hinder youth employment. Unfortunately, we are among the countries with the largest number of unemployed youth. "So'mother' would say young people, but this is no longer a joke, but a serious disease state of the country in which we live, which is ours and we call it even a beloved country. Rumbling, laying responsibility from one to the other, from left to right and vice versa, will not save us. Everyone in our country is at least to some extent responsible for this situation and for this country. This is particularly the case for all branches of government, the legislative branch, the executive branch, the judicial branch and the seventh force. Perhaps the government side and the opposition that dealt with the resolution of public finances all year ago were never as close to the findings as they are today. To solve the country, we need new waivers, including new benefits and new compromises to make the operation work and the patient survive. So now is the time to make decisive moves. Of all of us, it would be irresponsible to just blow deep wounds like a child's knee and then stick a small patch on an unpolluted and defiled wound. If we really want to, we can do it. Timely and effective interventions save lives. Writing a fiscal rule into the constitution with the 2015 anniversary will force us all to undergo quick and effective treatment that will hurt, but we will welcome the wounds – we must – if we all understand, accept and trust in our future. Reforms are necessary, urgent, not just for others, even for us, for me and for you. Each of us has a mission and a mission in this country. There is a great challenge ahead of us, but there will always be new ones, such as job shortages, ageing, climate change, perhaps water and food shortages. Therefore, as a nation, we must keep together as much as possible in order to meet all these challenges. I am convinced that the Slovenians are a capable nation, but we can also be successful. Many are aware of this, so we still have successful companies, honest, hardworking and working citizens who pay taxes so that our educational, health, social and other systems can operate. Your Honor! Let us not put today's problems on the shoulders of future generations, which will be burdened by the problems and challenges of new times. Let's solve our problems now, share them responsiblely and fairly for all. After all, we can be encouraged again and again by the known truth that happiness is not in our possession, but to be, to live, to create, to love, and to cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you for your discussion. I give my word to Mr Jerk Chekovin, prepare yourself for the Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! As far as fiscal rules are concerned, there is general confusion in our country. Some imagine that this is a magic wand that will solve the problem of public finances overnight, while others view it as the end of a social and solidarity state. The truth is probably not one or the other. In the discussions on the fiscal rule, the term golden rule or golden fiscal rule shall apply. This does not comply with the proposed fiscal rule. The latter foresees that the revenue and expenditure of the state budgets must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt, or in surplus. And the gold rule allows you to be in charge of investment. The Golden Rule limits the responsibility for current needs and, in principle, allows for debt for investment purposes. I must say, even some of the ministers of the previous government were stuttering in front of the cameras last year when they got the question of what fiscal rule means. I can say, for my part, that I opposed this fiscal rule, in the form proposed, for principle reasons, and, above all, that financial instruments do not appear to be constitutional in my opinion. What has led me to soften my position is the fact that in Positive Slovenia we are aware of the need to ensure the balance and sustainability of public finances. In a time of economic crisis, when we are experiencing a major decline in economic activity, there is an even greater need for active fiscal policy in the country. In doing so, let me reiterate that the fiscal rule in the Constitution will not solve our problems. We need to be aware of that. The inclusion of this rule in the Constitution is primarily a moral commitment, a guide and a guide that society as a whole and not just a policy begins a serious agreement on its development priorities and the rule of law to regulate the country so that it is sufficiently stable and independent of financial markets in the sense that their dictatorships will not have to be eliminated. We can still do this on our own, with urgent structural reforms. The Constitution is not to blame and has not committed a financial and economic crisis, nor has it committed a political crisis. Writing a fiscal rule into a constitution won't solve that either. I believe that this is more due to self-criticism and recognition that so far the etabulared parties have not been able to manage public finances in a sustainable manner. All these efforts will be possible only in the social dialogue with the conclusions adopted for consolidation and some will be taken under this government in a relatively short time. When we talk about this fiscal rule, I believe that it will not materially benefit and will not harm. It's almost like an aspirin that takes or doesn't take. However, if this is the condition that we can give the time-out policy to start dealing with serious problems, those that are actually vital to our country, then it is only right that we stop with the fiscal rule of matters and we are politically confronted in this regard. Finally, let me say that I think that the solution to our problems is not in the introduction of fiscal rules into the constitution, but mainly in enterprises and the start of new economic growth. This is what this country can pull out. In doing so, they should also address the idea that wage cuts in the public sector are an increase in jobs in the economy. That's just not true. We have to give the economy a chance. Measures already taken that in some way allow the country to temporarily enter through its shares into businesses and then are resolved to sell them – this is the right way to solve problems. As I say, I will uphold the fiscal rule. I will also support him because I want to maintain the credibility, credibility of this country when its representatives unconditionally promised to introduce a fiscal rule into the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Mark Pogačnik, get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that he has overcome reason and that now, even in SD and Positive Slovenia, they are thinking differently than they thought before. I would like to reiterate once again that the Slovenian Democratic Party has always supported the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. I expect and appreciate that today Slovenia will give a positive signal to foreign countries, especially those who lend money to Slovenia, and that Slovenia will gain confidence in this action when we enter the fiscal rule today. The inclusion of a fiscal rule in the Constitution should be in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in view of the fact that it is the only protection and security not to be left, not the middle, not the right government of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will not be in enormous debt. It's the only guarantee before all this. In all of this, it's kind of a bad taste that we lost a year by entering a fiscal rule into the constitution. This year, Slovenia paid this dearly. However, the time is today — let’s write it down, let’s unify. Above all, it should be stressed that the fiscal rule does not have a magic wand and that it will only be a moratorium in which the Government will be able to draw up concrete measures on the basis of which the Slovenian economy will be freed from the crisis. It should be noted that the Slovenian Democratic Party, regardless of its position, whether in the government or in the opposition, will defend those positions that are in the best interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, even now that we are in opposition, we will not change course and will still confirm what we have been defending a year ago. It is a pity that the rest of you did not join the Slovenian Democratic Party and supported the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution, because today would probably be different. Time is not an ally of Slovenia, so we must move from words to actions. I expect the government of Alenka Bratušek to take advantage of this moment, because I think it will buy her a certain time, a certain moratorium in which she will be able to take action in peace. We call on them to be concrete, not just the burden of the economy and the burden of taxpayers and taxpayers. It is important that Slovenian policy is united today. We are moving forward together, and such a day as is today in Parliament should be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr Franco Jurša, to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to friends and friends and everyone in the hall! I must admit that, since I have been the leader of the Democratic Party of Retired Members' Group, I have never been so optimistic about meeting the party presidents and the leaders of the Parliament's parliamentary groups as last night. The meeting lasted a very short time. We agreed on what we agreed, and I hope that none of the representatives of the political parties represented in the National Assembly had a fig tree in his pocket. I think this will show up very quickly, even with the vote that we will take after the debate. I must say that in our Group of Members, we have devoted quite a lot of time to the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia, and we have always come to one conclusion – in this country we must strive not to spend more than we create in the future. For us, this is exactly the fiscal rule — balancing both income and expenditure. In the history of the independent country of Slovenia, unfortunately, all governments have done so. So far, we have taken quite a few fire-fighting measures in the National Assembly, which initially produce positive results, but in the long term, I am sure that systemic changes will have to be adopted. We will have to face all these facts and allow the Slovenian economy to function normally in normal conditions. Slovenia has accepted the commitment to incorporate a fiscal rule into the Constitution by ratifying the so-called fiscal pact. We weren't told there that we had to write this right into the constitution, but that we had to do it internally. I must say, unfortunately, our governments have had a number of records in the past, and they have not done so. That is why we have come into the situation we are in. Especially in the last three or four years, our debt has doubled. The attempts to immobilise, curb public finances and save more than apparently were insufficient and appropriate and the act at the level of the government is insufficient. It is more than obvious that in Slovenia we have to write a fiscal rule in the highest legal act of the country, in the Constitution. The entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule means that it is more likely to respect budgetary discipline and responsible treatment of public finances, a signal to the European Commission, the financial market and the international public that Slovenia is genuinely working and that it has committed itself to balancing public finances. In our Group of Members, we are aware that it is primarily because of us that it is time to take certain serious measures, as we are at risk of losing our sovereignty in terms of decision-making in the field of our public finances. It is also responsible that the burden of the current disproportionate consumption, given what we create, is no longer passed on to future generations. Our task must be to instill these things now and here, not that all these obligations will be borne by our future generations. I would like to stress in particular that the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution must not be the end and the collapse of the social state. We believe in our parliamentary group that this will not be the case, or we will insist that it does not interfere with social and pension matters. We have to ask ourselves how the socially disadvantaged and pensioners would handle this when the average pension today is EUR 563 and the poverty threshold is EUR 587. Of the 600,000 pensioners, 209,000 receive pensions below the poverty line. 35% of all our pensioners already live under the so-called poverty threshold. DeSUS, believe me, he won't allow it in the future at all costs. We have announced our support for the amendment of Article 148 last year, and we will do so under such conditions as I have mentioned today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The next debater is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that the policy has at least partly or in a two-thirds number been unified into a fiscal rule. Because, according to the content itself, the fiscal rule or the writing of the fiscal rule does not mean anything bad. It can mean a lot of good. What does it mean? This means that the state of Slovenia will act in such a way that it will no longer spend as it creates in the long run. This, in other words, provides opportunities for development and does not exclude it. The entry of a fiscal rule does not exclude the social state and does not exclude solidarity. However, it excludes unreasonable indebtedness, excludes debt by excessive interest rates and excludes the transfer of these burdens, the burden of interest, the burden of debts on future generations. We have no moral right to place our burdens on future generations. If we are talking about not excluding social policy, not excluding the social state, not excluding solidarity, then we also need to know that the social state, solidarity, cannot be based mainly on debt. If the State is in debt, then it should be in charge of productive purposes, for the purposes of investments from which the fruits will have future generations. We can't afford to spend more. In view of the data known today for the Slovenian state, it can be found that the overall development of Slovenia has increased the debt, increased the country's indebtedness and the indebtedness of businesses and individuals. Each individual, especially those in debt, knows what the burden of debt is. The burden of debt, and if the assets are set up to repay the debts, can also mean the loss of that property. Given that the state has recently owed itself mainly to repay past debts, this is becoming pointless, and given that a little bit of a backlog of measures that would mean greater productivity mean more development, it means creating an environment in which entrepreneurs, people would be able to create more easily, this means that, together with the international environment, it has come into crisis. This crisis is reflected in the less credibility of the country and also in the fact that the debt price is too high. The fiscal rule will contribute to this, at least that's how I think the debt price will go down. If the debt price is reduced, this also means a lower burden for current business and for future generations. On the other hand, we must also take into account that the so-called virtual economy, virtual finance, is over, that development can only be based on actual creation, only on what people create with their knowledge, with their work, with their innovation, and by expanding their production. They're expanding by hiring others. This means healthy development, healthy development for the country and also means a condition for a better new quality of life for citizens and citizens. I agree that gold rule isn't everything. I also agree with the thesis that the writing down of the fiscal rule into the Constitution does not automatically mean greater development. In any case, it provides the conditions for other policies, including investment policy, creating conditions, more competitive conditions, to start with a different policy, a more open, more competitive and one that will bring more income to people and a better standard of living. There are many areas that need to be regulated. It is certainly property management, including the financial system, social policy, solidarity. As I said before, the fiscal rule does not exclude social states or solidarity. That's why I'm going to support the fiscal rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u23	Thank you for your discussion. I give the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, get ready for the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The end is of Slovenian economic and political autonomy. It was a while ago. Direct proof is that we needed a year of convincing, wasted time, but we realized that spending should be limited, that you can't spend more than you can create. This realization did not happen in Slovenia, but the President of the Government came to this realization in Brussels. That's how it's gonna be in the future. We will accept those reforms that will be said to be necessary in Brussels. The fiscal rule is not an economic rule, it is just a writing in a constitution or a law that says that it is the end of joy, that the end of the period when loans are used to finance public spending. A number of debaters said the following. The fiscal rule alone saves nothing and does not have to be particularly happy because it is not a particularly great success. It is only a final knowledge or instruction that we have heeded to limit ourselves. The fundamental problem with Slovenia is that it spends more than it creates. Mr Bogovic drew attention to the following in his debate. Not only is it a fiscal rule that many social sub-systems, which are cancerous, metastases and create significantly too much contribution than in this society, will have to make major reforms in these subsystems, so that the country as a whole will begin to create. We can talk about success. Today there will be written and spoken many long - term words, many high - flying words that do not say much. We can say that, as a Parliament, as a country, we have done something when the social gross product starts to grow, when we begin to move from negative economic growth to positive economic growth. This is the only condition for economic and political autonomy. You know, it's probably hard to be the Prime Minister, but imagine the following. If German Chancellor Angela Merkel merely suggests to German companies that Slovenian companies as suppliers should step up, then we have completely bankrupted. This is the cruel reality. In the global economy, we depend on our biggest trading partner – I think we are creating about 60 or over 60% of exports – and this reality needs to be taken into account. I expect this action to be followed by the following actions. Tax hikes are certainly not a contribution to economic growth. The fact that we have some salaries in the public and parastatal sectors of €700 net or €600 and others of €10,000 certainly does not create conditions for economic growth. That is why we must make wages in the public and parastatal sectors between 1 and 5 and make the following constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u25	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims, prepare yourself, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u26	Good-bye to all of you! One of the most beautiful works of art in the literature of the world's reputation is the Search for Lost Time. Today we seem to be writing a new chapter of this novel in this House. One of the global principles that has been in force for decades is that time is money, time is money. Probably never before has this rule been as obvious as in the case of the issue of entering a fiscal rule into the Slovenian Constitution. Politics teaches that every event, every solution, every policy action can be taken at some optimum moment. I'm afraid this optimum moment is long gone. One year ago, on behalf of the SDS, I sat in the negotiations on the fiscal rule with Mrs Alenka Bratušek, current Prime Minister of the Government. There we have cleared everything you have talked about today, including the law on the implementation of this rule. Each sentence is especially long enough to agree on each sentence individually. But if that were to be the case, in due time, at the best possible time, good will was run out. This not only had political consequences but also had material consequences. A number of you have already estimated that if a fiscal rule was adopted in a timely manner, they would probably pay a percentage, a percentage and a half of the interest on long-term bonds all the time. If you consider how many there are and how long it takes, it can be calculated very quickly that the amount of the size order is half a billion euros. Half a billion euros are lost for all generations, for all time only because there was no good will in the opposition at the time to accept it. Today it's a knowledge on the table. Today, the arguments of many who speak are significantly different from those of the time. But this lost time, these opportunities no one can return. However, it is still strange that the issue of sovereignty still arises in the debate today. There is something else to be said about this. In the modern world, the state's sovereignty is not primarily defended in a military field with divisions of soldiers. It is defended by successful entrepreneurship, which requires optimal conditions for its work. If there is one measure where there is enough political agreement as it is, let's say, the entry of a fiscal rule into the constitution, I say that we are all obliged to do everything we can to achieve such an agreement, to make it possible, with some good will, to allow more social states and more prosperity for all, and that even in this part, when it comes to losing sovereignty through excessive debt, to preserve what is possible, to the greatest extent possible, to strengthen the efforts of entrepreneurs to work successfully, to support them in a successful conflict in a globalised world in a modern economy and to enable them to develop as quickly as possible. Today is the time to do so. I'm just sorry it got lost for a year. History will tell who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u27	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jožef Horvat, to prepare Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I greatly appreciate the knowledge and invitation of Slovenian Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. "For my own sake, not for Brussels," she said. This call could be an intensification for more cohesiveness between 90 Members and Members. I hope this call comes back again. Some of you have already discussed the health status of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm just adding to that, ladies and gentlemen, it's time for a cure, not a sedative. Europe is Slovenia and Slovenia is Europe. Europe needs fiscal stability for economic growth and growth for stability. Therefore, the Treaty on the Fiscal Pact, which was ratified by this National Assembly on 19 April last year by 74 votes in favour, no votes against. We can come out of the crisis if we are fully operational on both sides of this coin, ladies and gentlemen. Europe must be committed to the social market economy model. The future of the European peoples is a community of responsibility and a community of solidarity united in the social market economy. The European Union must achieve sustainable growth in order to provide jobs for the next generation instead of debt. We therefore need structural reforms in all Member States to increase their competitiveness. We need a fully functioning internal market, including better functioning and transparency of the financial market. Europe is our home, so we have decided. If I say it a little more emotionally, Europe is our mother. I expect and hope that the word link of Europe, the external enemy, Europe, the stepmother will disappear from the vocabulary of Slovenian Members and Members for all time. Colleagues and colleagues, we must build trust together in Slovenia for the hope of our citizens and citizens. I will support the amendment of the Constitution, support the incorporation of the fiscal rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u29	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Ivan Simčič and prepare Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Government representatives, all present! The implementation of the fiscal rule will be successful once we have established implementing rules for this and, secondly, when we adapt the procedures for budgeting. I am stressing the consistency of respect for the fundamental constitutional charter, which is and will be the basis for the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a proof of the seriousness and control of Slovenia in managing a difficult financial situation. That's enough transfiguration. Debt really needs to be done, but not in the way that we are looking for solutions at the bottom of the country's structure, at the weakest, because the extent of the debt is the greatest right at the top of our country. When we repeatedly listen and listen to each other in our pre-election meetings, we are talking about the harmonious development of our country. In the place where I come from, the municipality of Illyrian Bistrica, they wonder what this country is and why it is in charge that we have to introduce a fiscal rule. We don't have an answer. We've been publicly invited many times not to have highways, traffic lights and anything else. Whose mission is that? At one time, in a southern country, it was considered to be something underdeveloped and the north of the former country was paying off its debts to the south. But absurdness came to us — the south of the country paying for the sins of the ruling elite and the north of the country. I asked different ministries what this country has invested in our place. I still expect an answer. The Golden Fiscal Rule will shine with a golden shade only when we treat it as a starting point for the responsible conduct of the whole country, as a responsibility of all, not just as a burden of taxpayers. I am aware that this is a long-term solution that needs to be taken seriously and, above all, implemented correctly. How and with what consequences, I wonder for myself. I'm going to vote on my conscience under the fiscal rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u31	Thank you for your discussion. I give the floor to Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Like other colleagues and colleagues, I will vote in my conscience today and support the fiscal rule. Nothing new, I guess. But as in every family and every community, the most important stability, stability, and this also applies to the country in all segments of its operation. By doing so, with stability, both politically and financially, we have a major problem in our country, so large that it has exceeded the borders of our country. If we can't tame him, others will. You won't know mercy and warmth. They won't take our specialties into account either. I am sure that everyone in this Chamber is aware of the responsibility we have towards our citizens, and we will not allow that. It is right that we fight for our common country as we do for our family in the role of mother or father. Today's session, today's debates are proof that we know and can do this. I am pleased that, despite the party's previous differing views, the Members have gathered enough wisdom and have united on the necessity of entering the fiscal rule. It is true that we have taken too much time to do this, because it has been since the expert group formulated a proposal, just for a political decision, a political agreement. We have been in the Citizens' List regarding the entry of the fiscal rule from the outset in the position that we must fulfil the commitment made by the Pahor government and which is one of the important steps to stabilise our public finances. Some say it all starts and ends with money, and I say it all begins and ends with trust. This is something that we have already spent on politicians, everyone, both in front of the domestic and foreign public. By entering a fiscal rule into the constitution, we will make a clear commitment to regulate our public finances and reduce the temptations of every time to impose excessive debt. The fiscal rule will restore at least a fraction of the lost credibility. It will take a lot of effort, convincing measures and their consistent implementation for the government to gain the trust that I have discussed earlier. Brussels realized that we were a reliable partner. He understood our problems and our efforts to settle our finances, and he allowed us an additional time to fulfil the commitment we have already made. It is right that we and our citizens understand that. As I say, I will support the change of constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u33	Thank you for your discussion. I give the floor to Mr Mark Pavlisic, to prepare Mr Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The proposed amendment to the Constitution is necessary because of ourselves. Foreigners will take our actions much more into account than our words, and those, expressed at the wrong time, will raise the price of our debt. In order for our actions to follow our words, the words we are going to write in the Constitution today must be recorded and the other values enshrined in the Constitution – freedom, sovereignty, democracy, equality, socialism, solidarity. But one of our key values, sovereignty, is at stake. It's threatened by spending more than we create. This is what we have been indebted to, most recently mainly abroad, and we are turning ourselves over to the mercy and mercy of the financial markets. We act like an easy-to-think rich man who boasts of the newly acquired property on four wheels, but in fact he is the owner of the credit, or credit, of him who lives in eternal fear when the moment of truth comes, the recoverer or the troika. Liberals are aware of the responsibility of their children and do not want to abandon their debts. The Liberals will therefore be supported by the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. To vote against means to vote for us to become even more dependent on financial markets, to leave them with even more sovereignty when the troika makes us not only a budget, but also a level of social security. The golden fiscal rule will be a constitutional anchor that only provides sufficient assurance that we will not forget on the occasion of the first occasion, at the first possible fall in interest, which will increase appetites after the new debt, although perhaps with the best intentions, perhaps for a new kindergarten, school or hospital. With the same best intentions that we've come to today's difficult situation. The path to hell is usually pressed for the best of purposes. Formal legal entry into the Constitution is really not necessary. It is necessary because our conduct threatens our sovereignty, and when this value is threatened, it is necessary to use the most powerful legal system that enables us to do so. In the Civil Gazette, we strongly support the entry of fiscal rules into the Constitution. You'll find a fortune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Puksic is next in the debate, and Mr Jože Tanko is preparing. As is last followed by Mrs Maša Kociper's debate. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! If one of the Slovenian farmers, workers or unemployed, which Slovenian housewife you ask how much she spends, she will say, "mostly as much as I have." Knowing fiscal rules has been a millennium among simple people. In politics, in the words you learn, you take these simple people out of your pocket for politicians to do so. Today, the President of the Government said: "There is no time in Slovenia for political blockades, so today we are here where we are. When I was still in the ranks of Members and Members, I objected to the fiscal rule, and then... " – so it was understood from her address – "... has often worked in the interests of the party." So today, let us no longer act in the interests of the party. Otherwise, she said, "When I took office as Prime Minister of the Government, I said that I would work for the good of people and states." She swore to the Constitution. I have never sworn to the Constitution because I did not serve as Prime Minister or Minister, but I have always acted for the good of the people. Always in the best interests of the people and never in accordance with the customer's instructions of one party or another. But obviously, you can't all do that. If we acted like that, we wouldn't be in this misery today. This, colleagues and colleagues, leads to the misery of political parties and politicians who change their views from the position they are in. This poor thing has gone completely depraved today. I like that this has happened, because after this historic session, I don't know what you call it, even though this has been a familiar rule among people for thousands of years, the Slovenian people will recognize who isn't turning, I won't say in the wind, but in the position they occupy. If I hold a grudge against the President of the Government, I resent the fact that today, as President of the Government, she speaks for the good of the country and for the people, and as a Member only for the good of the political parties, on whose wings she has also brought to the National Assembly. One of the discussers said that we had compromised the foundations of the social state. Indeed, the foundations of the social state have been threatened by debt, by increasing unemployment and by unused European funds, and have been at risk since 2002? If, as my colleague Chehovin said, political parties were able to deal with public finances in a way that would be balanced, then Slovenian Social Democrats would not be in debt for 9 billion euros in the time of the State's Government of Pahor along with coalition partners. Did anyone put in an account? Where did that money go? For this, everyone, not those who have spent this money, is paying for it now, but everyone in this country, from raising VAT to all these measures that you have taken at the time of taking power. One more step or two – the start of a bad bank and the operation of a holding company – will be three major projects that were projects of the previous government to bring this country back to real ground. I'm afraid you haven't done all this. We're going to lose a lot of things because you haven't done it yet, extra at the annual level. As our President, Franz Bogovic, said, between 40 million and 80 million a year, or in 10 years that means close to one billion — only at the expense of debt, to repay the debt. Colleagues and colleagues, if this rule were adopted a year ago, you know how much more money we would have for Cimos, Pekko today, how much for the Maribor Foundry, for workers and workers who go to work after three months, but not for transportation, how much more money we would have to maintain Slovenian torn-up, destroyed roads and so on if we did not go in the interest of political parties and individual lobbying, but in the interest of people and the country. We are in the Slovenian People's Party, and we will support, and I am working all the time in my life by spending as much as I have, not over the edges as the dedicated tycoons and those who robbed this country. As today's talks on the continuation of the meeting, including the referendum rule, it would be right if we could continue with another extraordinary session, with a third extraordinary session to tell our fellow citizens and citizens that we will then give you the opportunity to go back to the elections – to go to the elections in autumn, so that people can choose those people who will always be in the National Assembly, regardless of their position, opposition or position, in the government or in the opposition, to work for the well-being of the people and the state. So that the new set can change legislation by collecting all the assets that have been stolen, by allowing the return of the assets that are in the oasis, by the tax administration to start operating in areas where it should work, and by allowing the creation of conditions for new jobs, especially or also for those young people who have completed colleges – today, as I said before, they are putting up boxes and cardboard on commercial shelves – and by telling the union leaders that their work is not running the country because they do not have the authority to do so. Last night, when I listened to the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Semilic, what acceptance means, and the warnings we received from Mr Semilic and others that this means minus 30% for pensions, for social assistance, etc. – these are not his words. He took the words from the vocabulary of the current coalition partners who spoke this way – Mrs Bratušek, Möderndorfer and the other Members, also from the SD. We could say that Semolic made a plagiarism over the former opposition. I'll support this fiscal rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr Puksic, with the hope that we have all understood the agreement at yesterday's coalition summit to limit ourselves to the debates. I give my word to Mr. Jozet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Today we have a decision on a constitutional change that has been in the parliamentary process for more than a year. I think it is good that we reached an agreement at this meeting yesterday to approach the final, final decisions in this area. The fiscal rule is that it is written as a principle in the Constitution, and this means nothing more than that the State acts in accordance with its capacity during each financial year. This requires that every time the government anticipates as much spending as we gather in that financial year. This principle leads to moderation, leads to rational behaviour, leads to deliberate actions, and does not allow the government, the one that gets into the hands of the country, governance of the country and the budget, to act as a spoiled child who spends money on everything he sees, regardless of the consequences for future generations. I understand the writing of a fiscal rule into the Constitution as a kind of human right for future generations, so that when we act rationally in years before, we leave them with enough opportunities, enough air for long-term work, for long-lasting behavior, for long-term survival, and not overload them with the various reckless historical actions that have now taken place. I think that we should not only view this as a matter of the moment which will restrict one or another government, but, above all, as the right of those who are not yet politicians, they are not a government that does not yet manage the country, so that we also leave them with a sufficient opportunity to do so. From this point of view, I also see this fiscal rule as a fiscal remedy – that from the entry into force or even before the entry into force of the government, whatever it is, and its successors will come to the National Assembly with appropriate measures, with the right solutions, with the right medications, with the right doses, that we will also maintain and implement what this rule provides for. Therefore, it seems to me that these discussions within the National Assembly, which were earlier and perhaps even now appear, and all that is happening outside the hall is not appropriate and in the spirit of the situation in which we live. I think that everything needs to be done to make this system better, because it is likely that it has come to realize that it is sick, that it is financially ill, and I expect that in the next steps the Government will come with some real, dosed solutions, content, and if these solutions are to be so, then we will also participate in our ability to accept these matters. As it is said, these two messages that we will accept today are strong both for the internal public, for the citizens and for the outside. I expect that we will soon come across understanding not only outside, because they have been expecting this for some time, and we ourselves know that we need signals from the outside very badly, because, after all, it costs us very dearly, but that sooner or later this will also flow into the inner agreement that we are living within some tolerances of moderation. This implementing law will allow a bit of movement of spending over certain periods, either up or down, but not too much – what has happened to us. I think the step we're going to take today is a good one. This is not the only step we need to take. Two other decisions are ahead of us in this area until implementation, pending the implementation of both constitutional changes. Today you will demand two-thirds of our support, and I hope we get it. Then, in the coming days, it will have to be self-restraint, so that a third will use its options – this is a third of the Members – and the next Saturday, when the deadlines expire, also provide support for the rulings, for the declaration. In all these three matters, I am counting on the fact that we have made an appropriate agreement and that this project, both the constitutional amendments to Article 148, will be a fiscal rule as well as the revisions of the referendum regime, will be voted in full and that yesterday's arrangements were not just some apparent, provisional agreement, but that this agreement is in full and to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mrs Maša Kociper will discuss the debate between Members and Members. However, I warn the representative of the Government that, at the conclusion of the debate, Members and Members will be able to speak. I give my word to Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With great pride, the speakers in front of me stressed that they persisted in their positions and kept their word. This is how they praised the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party, the Novi Slovenije, the DeSUS, the Civil Code, and the principle of social democrats. In Positive Slovenia, however, we were those who were willing to step back not one step to reach a compromise. Because compromise is something you get by getting someone or, in the best possible version, everyone to give up a little bit. Our constitution requires a two-thirds majority, and for a two-thirds majority it is imperative to give up and negotiate parties with different political options. Unfortunately, this failure has not occurred in one year. In Positive Slovenia, we hope to reach a compromise in which, according to the Government's calculations, we will change the year of writing the fiscal rule into a constitution, the time of its entry into force, to 2017. This would constitute a complete compromise between those who opposed the entry into the Constitution and those who requested this entry in 2015. Unfortunately, none of the parties I listed earlier, the opposition parties, were willing to give in, although you have talked a great deal to date about the importance of working for the good of the people, the importance of compromise and the need to overcome client differences. Positive Slovenia has agreed to compromise – some with a heavy heart – on compromise. Not because we would now change our minds and suddenly think that it is necessary to get into the constitution. No, no, no. We still believe that the economic doctrines do not belong to the Constitution, that the text of this text does not belong to the Constitution, and that exactly what is required with regard to the fiscal rule is a fiscal pact which we have ratified as another country among all the members of the European Union in this Chamber. It's all written in the fiscal pact. But the situation is that you have put us all together before the fact that we have to decide on the fiscal rule. The rejection of this rule could indeed send a very negative message that the new government, the new coalition, is not seeking to consolidate public finances, which is by no means true. Let me just remind you for a second. The positive Slovenia has agreed to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution to introduce the fiscal rule into the Constitution. This is how President Jankovic assured at the meeting of the presidents of the parties, and we also kept that word at the beginning of the procedure. Later, however, we could not possibly reach the calculations we wanted and the projections that would show us what entering the fiscal rule into the constitution would actually mean for the budget. We were even more disturbed by the fact that at some point we found that the entry, at least in the original text, meant, in particular, that people were restricted to the right to a referendum on all laws having financial implications. We were very disturbed by that. Therefore, it was Positive Slovenia that did not vote on the constitutional amendment of the Constitutional Commission. At that time this amendment was adopted by means of the votes of the Social Democrats. But, as we say, today we are where we are, and today we are in the situation we are in. The country is in a very poor financial situation and Europe is expecting us, and we must also expect certain measures from ourselves. That is why we are thinking again today about entering a fiscal rule into the constitution. I'll tell you what this entry will bring. It will only bring a record of the fiscal pact at constitutional level. The fiscal pact lays down very precisely which derogations are allowed in terms of the deficit of the State and in terms of debt and which criteria the State must meet. If the state does not respect this, the European Union sanctions follow. This entry into the Constitution will also allow for the adoption of an implementing law which will specify how this consolidation will take place. This is the compromise that Positive Slovenia has agreed to. After careful consideration and after all calculations by the Government, we have found that a reasonable compromise is possible for the benefit of the people by allowing the established implementing law to gradually consolidate public finances and to preserve the principle of the social state and the principle of solidarity. Even in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you can see that the Government is still insisting on the position that consolidation is not possible until 2015. In 2015 our public finances cannot possibly be balanced, balanced, because this would mean derogations to which this Government is not prepared. However, we have all found together, including with the assistance of legal experts, that the third paragraph of the proposed amendment to the Constitution allows us to establish a way and time frame for the implementation of the principle by law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of all Members, a fiscal rule and criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and how they should be followed. The exceptional circumstances of the fiscal pact are defined not only as circumstances related to natural disasters but also as a major economic downturn of the country. We will comply with the fiscal rule with the implementing law and also fulfil the promise made to Europe by the two presidents of the governments ahead of us. The representatives of the European Union are no longer interested in who is on the left, who is on the right and what we are going here, and they are interested in whether, as a country, we are capable of fulfilling the commitments we make. Two former heads of government, Mr Pahor and Mr Janša, committed themselves before Europe to adopt a fiscal rule. This is of interest to them — whether we are capable of fulfilling the commitments we make as a country. Even more so, as the President of the Government can say, whether we are able to agree on anything in this country, because political stability is very important for the European Union. These are the reasons for the compromise. What will not be enshrined in the Constitution and what will not happen — that is what I would like to say. The 2015 constitution will not make this clear to everyone. This year shall be recorded in the implementing part of the constitutional law which shall not be incorporated into the Constitution. You don't have to be afraid of that. The entry into the Constitution will also not mean a 30% reduction in pensions, a 30% reduction in salaries and a halvation of social contributions. This would only have happened if we had insisted on balancing with 2015, and this government also commits itself to not insisting on the position it has sent. Indeed, what the debater said before me is that the fiscal rule itself is no reason to lower wages, contributions, social benefits. However, such a fiscal rule in the hands of a government that does not have a hearing for the social state and solidarity means an excuse to carry out such interventions. Finally, we hope that this agreement today marks the end of a small political crisis that we have witnessed in recent weeks, and the possibility of this government to really focus on the necessary measures and the solution of the country. The positive Slovenia, our party, is in and has done a great deal for this and will support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u41	Thank you, too. According to the government's message, he doesn't want to discuss it. I'm asking if, as motions for President Masha Kociper of the Constitutional Commission, he would like to make another point? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the first and second sections of the draft constitutional law. In accordance with the procedure, we are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss the constitutional law in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the first and second chapters and on the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members, 60 or more, are required to adopt a constitutional law. The same applies to the adoption of an individual section. We're moving on to a decision on the first chapter. Explanation of the vote – next to Mr Han, who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the delegation? [[He doesn't want to.]] On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Because I will explain my vote on all three matters together and because I also told the President of the Government yesterday, I will do the same now so that there is no confusion. Social Democrats cannot support the proposal to amend Article 148 of the Constitution, after which the fiscal rule enters into force and is applicable in 2015. The decision we have made is not an easy decision. We are aware of the responsibility that we bear before the entire international public, which is watching over the measures that our government is preparing to maintain the economic sovereignty of our country. However, the fiscal rule is not a measure, it is only a goal that can be achieved if we properly assess the real circumstances or risk unimaginably putting public education, public health, social security and justice at the expense of the fiscal rule – all that is at the heart of the Social Democrats' programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Is there anyone else who might want to explain the voice as a Member of Parliament? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the first chapter. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 8. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the first section has been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the second division. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 9. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the second section has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 8. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I find that the constitutional law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Allow me just to warn you that the 36th extraordinary meeting will begin at 12.35 p.m. Thank you.
