ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Marija Plevčak, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mr Dragutin Mate, Mr Janez Ribič from 12 noon onwards, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Ivan Simčič from 16:00 on, Mr Samo Bevk from 16:00 on and Mr Jerko Čehovin from 13:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 18. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on political parties. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, good morning or good morning. Political parties are the basic component of parliamentary democracy and freely after Churchill could say that parliamentary democracy is not a good system, it has a lot of flaws, but a better humanity has not yet come up with. So political parties are an important segment of society, a segment without which democracy cannot function. We have the Law on Political Parties, which is not bad. It contains, regulates many things, contains many good solutions, but the fact that a group of anti-corruption countries operating within the Council of Europe, this is so-called Greece, in 2007 in its report drew attention to some of the shortcomings of the Political Parties Act and the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. In particular, they noted the lack of transparency in financing and recommending political parties and made a number of recommendations that had not yet been implemented. We must implement the Greek recommendations if we are to be in line with what the Council of Europe expects of us. Thus, we also save some delays or backlogs or skeletons that fall from the closets day after day, from eraseds, to caresses, regressions of public servants, third quarters of wage imbalances, and so on. Every day, some legal error from the past comes to the table, which we regret to have to resolve now. But let's just leave it. Yesterday, as you know, I was in Strasbourg on a topic deleted and the marriage had a positive response. This shows that we are slowly working in order and cleaning in all areas. And this marriage is also an integral part of it. With regard to all major solutions, the law is coordinated with the Commission to prevent corruption. We have been very involved in preparing both the KPK and the Court of Auditors and the two main supervisory institutions. Some of the proposals were still on their side and we can then bring them to a second reading through the amendments. What does marriage bring? The most important change is certainly a ban on the financing of political parties by businesses, legal persons. This change reduces or limits corruption risks. The old saying says it's not free lunch. When the company donates something to the customer, a debt relationship can be created in the donor’s head – we have paid the customer something and now the political party will do something for us. By banning financing from customers by companies, the financing system of customers becomes cleaner, more transparent and reduces the risk of interconnecting policies and economies. On the other hand, the law also facilitates certain things and removes bureaucratic obstacles. For example, it allows the conclusion of a contract between the Group of Members and a political party on the transfer of funds or parts of funds intended for education, professional assistance and other matters to the Group of Members, as practice has shown that there is a great interconnection, a link between the Group of Members and the parties. In fact, the Group is a vital body of the body called a political party, and here some legal administrative obstacles do not make sense. The criteria for the allocation of budgetary money between the parties have also been changed by increasing the share that is evenly divided among all political parties that have reached at least 1% in the elections from 10% today to 25%. I must say that it is worth everyone's praise that, in fact, large parties have proposed this or accepted it, which means that a certain portion of the funds are being cancelled for the benefit of smaller parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties. I'm done. The law also lays down clearer rules on what a donation is, significantly stronger powers of the Court of Auditors in monitoring, tighter sanctions for infringements. The law means another small step in the Slovenian fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister, for introducing the law. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, good day to all! And a nice greeting to the Minister with his co-worker! "Slovenia has one of the worst laws in Europe regarding the financing of political parties and is therefore the custodian of political corruption," comments the President of the Commission to prevent corruption with regard to the announced current amendment of the Political Parties Act. Colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to follow this logic in other areas. For example, you know that the KPK report, which has the date of March 2013, said that there is systemic and political corruption in the Slovenian banking system and that irregularities in the banking system are the responsibility of the grey eminence of the Slovenian banking system. However, the names and surnames of the Commission and no one else can issue, but we want to give the name and surname responsibility, so I call on the government to also prepare a change of legislation on this segment, and immediately so that we can only once be responsible for irregularities in the banking system, which is the biggest cancer of our system, our country, our name and name. And I'm going on. The Political Parties Act constitutes a legal basis for the establishment, management and functioning of political parties. An important segment governed by the Political Parties Act is the rules on the financing of political parties. These must be regulated in a way that ensures material conditions for the work of the party and also their independence, while also putting in place appropriate protective mechanisms to prevent secret donations and the possibility of corruption. The Republic of Slovenia is a member of the Anti-Corruption Group – Greece, which assessed the transparency of financing of political parties in Slovenia in the years 2000-2007, and Slovenia did not do well in this evaluation. The amendments and additions to the Political Parties Act therefore implement the recommendations of Greece adopted in 2007 to address the identified legislative shortcomings in this area. In its recommendations, Greece specifically recalls the establishment of appropriate legislative mechanisms relating to grants which are later linked to the advantages that the donor provides to the party in power. This is, for example, the acquisition of important transactions through public procurement, the advantages of privatisation and the impact on appointment procedures. This is an important innovation brought by the current amendment of the law, the ban on obtaining contributions and donations from legal persons, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals engaged in independent activities. An important rule regarding the financing of political parties is the principle of transparency and public accessibility introduced by the current amendment to the Political Parties Act. The annual reports of political parties must be made public on the websites of the Apes, and information on them should show the customer's business more accurately and also show separately the operation of internal organisational units. However, it is particularly important to have adequate control over the financial operations of the parties, which is now being carried out by the Court of Auditors. Its powers are increased in particular by the amendment of this Act in the direction of greater possibilities for obtaining data and verifying data in the annual reports. More importantly, the annual reports of each political party will not only be reviewed every 4 years but also necessarily audited by the Court of Auditors. It will also be possible to carry out the audit more frequently if it is suspected that there are irregularities in the annual reports of one of the political parties. In Nova Slovenija, we estimate that changes and additions to the Political Parties Act are an important step towards greater transparency in the financing of political parties, in particular in the direction of preventing corruption in this area. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported at first reading. I would also like to thank Mr Minister here for taking into account some of the recommendations made by the New Slovenia Group in creating the novelty of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u6	Hello! Let me begin immediately by saying that the first consideration of this law, which is the parental law for all of us who sit here and represent each of our political parties, cannot be separated from the point we will have here. I am talking mainly about the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, because it is not the case that both points appear after each other and that both of us are being treated at the same time. You are particularly connected because in some part where we are giving up a certain proportion on one side of the political party, I am talking about donations, we expect these funds to be provided on the other side. That is why, after a long-term coordination with the National Assembly, the government forwarded proposals for amendments to the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns during parliamentary holidays. The current Slovenian legislation on financing political parties and electoral and referendum campaigns meets many of the recommendations of the Council of Europe and OSCE. Nevertheless, Greece, which is a group of countries against corruption in the Council of Europe, pointed out in 2007 that although political parties receive public funds, the decline in membership and the rise in the cost of financing electoral campaigns, it is increasing that customers are dependent on private funding, which could increase risks in the form of purchasing political influence. It has therefore prepared a report on the transparency of the financing of political parties in the Republic of Slovenia, which analyses the legislation in force and on this basis has also made recommendations. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that, despite the fact that no previous two governments have incorporated them in legislation since the warnings or recommendations of Greece have been made for six years. This government and this ruling coalition are the first to have decided to take almost full account of the recommendations, i.e. all of which are aimed at greater transparency and better control in financing political parties and electoral campaigns. In addition, this summer the European Parliament adopted an interim report from the competent committee at its plenary session in Strasbourg, in which it calls on Member States to regulate more clearly and appropriately the financing of political parties. For the European Parliament considers that the relationship between money and politics today is particularly a threat to democracy in times of financial and economic crisis. In preparing the new laws themselves, the Government has worked with the Commission to prevent corruption and legal changes are also in line with the Court of Auditors. An important objective of the bill itself is to enable effective control management. For example, the Court of Auditors will also carry out an audit on the regularity of the customer's business, for which the Commission proposes to carry out the audit to prevent corruption. The Court of Auditors shall also be empowered to require the submission of documents, clarifications and access to business books and records in the management of audits. Therefore, solutions reduce corruption risks and bring more transparency to this area. Amendments to the laws follow the recommendations of Greece, the European Parliament, as well as many countries in Europe and around the world, which call for greater transparency in the financing of political parties and the independence of their operations and for the prevention of their impact. Such changes are necessary to restore confidence in politics and only restore credibility. A key novelty, however, is a complete ban on donations from legal persons. In Positive Slovenia, we support the ban on donations by legal persons, thus reducing the risks of so-called systemic corruption itself. This ban prevents the interesting interconnection between the economy and the parties, or the creation of a policy that Americans refer to as "best politicians money can buy". The main purpose of these changes is to prevent intertwining the interests of political parties and economic operators or long-term customers with companies that have given only a donation. Therefore, due to the ban on donations, the parties will have a certain loss of income. Therefore, since the latter will result in a certain loss of income, consideration will have to be given to how this loss will also be replaced, with more options. One possibility, for example, is to increase funds in the State budget allocated to the financing of political parties and the amount of funds belonging to each party will be redefined in the financial plan of the National Assembly. Another option is to increase the country's supported form of electoral campaign and the like, which can be regulated by legislation alone. However, in these options, political parties will have to hold talks or reach an agreement at the time of further consideration of the law in the National Assembly, which is also expected in Positive Slovenia. In the parliamentary group, we also particularly welcome the solution, which stipulates that the party, in addition to the resources from the national budget or the local community budget, also acquires funds from the state budget for the education of Members, administrative and professional assistance in the work of sent groups and the organisation of sent offices. The Party shall obtain funds from the groups and Members elected to the National Assembly by means of identical lists of candidates and the Party and the National Assembly shall conclude a contract for the acquisition of such funds, with the proposal to conclude a contract submitted by the Head of the Member Group or individual Member. In this case, an unrelated Member. The contract shall be concluded on a negotiated basis without prior publication, as provided for in the law governing public procurement. The financing of parliamentary groups or professional assistance for the work of Members and their work in electoral units shall be governed by the Law on Members in Article 34, paragraph 2, and Article 35, paragraph 3, in order to ensure that for each Member, a specific amount is assigned to each Member. The amount of funds shall be determined by the National Assembly and parliamentary offices shall be organised in the electoral units with the necessary professional and administrative staff. These provisions of those articles of the Law on Members have not changed much since the adoption of the original law itself in 1992 and are, in the opinion of many, not sufficiently linked to the operation of the political parties on whose list individual Members were elected to the National Assembly. The link between the workings of the parliamentary group and the political party is organic. Under the law, political parties pursue their political objectives by democratically shaping the political will of citizens and by proposing candidates or candidates for elections to the National Assembly. After the constitution, as every citizen and citizen also has the right to participate in the management of public affairs through elected representatives, namely Members and Members. For these reasons, in the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on Political Parties and the amendment of the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign, and I also expect, with all the comments below, the highest level of consensus on the amendment and adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present from this point of view, given that we are in the first reading of the law, the position of the SDS Group of Members is a little wider. Perhaps, Minister, we will present our proposal and ask you a question that we have not yet received an answer to in the review of the bill. In the SDS, we recognize you as an active minister. But in these months and even in reviewing this bill, we feel that sometimes you hit the first ball, which is not always the best and especially the only solution. Within six months, you hit the first ball a number of times thoughtlessly — with Mr. Muscolo’s package and with the deletion or association of municipalities. This law is likely not to come to the same end or too quickly, since the law has some good extensions and some according to the SDS that are wrong. Therefore, we will continue to be very active in the adoption of the law. The current law defines a political party as a member organisation in which citizens and citizens achieve the political objectives set out in the programmes and through the formation of the political will of the electorate and the participation in the elections in the governance of the state, which is the basis of the democratic regime of the state. So in the existing law. In the SDS, we have quite a few concerns about whether the bill before us is going in the direction of consolidating political parties, as one of the main pillars of democracy, and whether citizens will still see political parties as something to identify themselves with. It will be interesting to see whether a few years after the adoption of this law in such or similar final form we will have more or less parties in Slovenia than the current 77. According to the SDS, it would be appropriate to open another article of the current law at this time. Perhaps it would be interesting to hear your point of view, or to think that 200 people are the optimal number to set up a party. You have obviously focused on only two segments of the political parties in this bill, namely financing and control of the parties or their financing. In doing so, as you mentioned, you relied on research when a transparency assessment of Greek anti-corruption funding was conducted in Slovenia in the years 2000-2007. So it's about grades between 6 and 13 years old. According to the SDS, we have only taken a step forward at this time. In view of your consistent compliance with these recommendations as dry gold, you obviously believe that we have taken a step back. Or perhaps you see political parties as something not the best and not the happiest in these times. In the SDS, we hope that some political parties do not see something that needs to be completely erased. The greatest shortcomings were identified by Greece in its control, and you have decided that control will be the easiest, fastest and most likely most effective if the financial tentacles are almost completely closed to political parties. The anarchists are probably clapping for you. And that part of the funding that will remain will be able to point your finger to the National Assembly or to us Members, if they cut off their own portion of the cake, and as a government, we are not to blame. So in the end, you will point out to Members that, through the adoption of the budget, they are raising funds for the operation of political parties or perhaps turning the matter in a different direction. There is no money, as few customers as possible, of course, especially those with transparent operations. You will also leave some division of financial bills at a lower or local level, where once again it will depend on the good will of the mayors or political intercession, how and how it will be shared. But in every congregation in its own way. You have also introduced in the draft law a provision that a party entitled to public funding and to infringe the provisions of the law may, for a certain period of time, reduce or even abolish the right to public funding. So stately or local. It is a sharp measure, which can even get a very strong political connotation and can be a very dangerous instrument at the end. Consider, Mr Minister, the alternatives to this measure. You want to achieve a ban on the financing of clients by legal persons, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals who carry out their own activities, and individuals who want to finance or help their customers will be exposed. Who else would want to give a gift to the customer if they felt that it was a crime and that individual would feel like he was going to go into bribery and corruption? It would not be right that the financing of political parties by natural persons is as simple and free as, for example, giving to the Red Cross, relatives, the church, its domestic animals or the first homeless person around the corner. Quietly and discreetly, without impaling on the embarrassing pillar. In particular, it is clear from the data that the parties have received the most funds from the State budget in recent years. It's been almost half. However, from contributions from legal and natural persons and individuals, the revenue of the parties was already less than 10%. So it's minimal. The most important objective of this law is to regulate mechanisms that will make it more effective to ensure that the financing of the parties is more transparent, that the data of the party's annual report are made publicly available, in order to ensure effective control over compliance with the provisions of the law, so that appropriate measures and sanctions are applied to infringements. In the SDS, we have no problem with this, but we believe that, like in other areas where we are over-focused, this will also have some bad consequences. For example, proportionality: higher taxes, more grey economy, which practice will soon show you. We do not have open accounts in Cyprus in the SDS, we do not have botts in Forum 21 and we do not have a problem explaining our revenues and expenditure every year. I myself had the opportunity to go through the audit process through a referendum campaign when I was performing a certain function in the party. Because of a few euros, when a local committee of the party forgot to put some paper at the expense of it, we first wrote to each other and then met with representatives of the Court of Auditors – for a few euros. Well, at least they were nice, while the media, due to a report with a reservation for about a week, cheerfully scolded us, czech, SDS again something "mush" – because of a few euros. In the SDS, we do not agree with the change in the criteria for the allocation of resources from the state budget. Otherwise you said that the biggest customers agree with this, I hope you still think that SDS is one of the biggest customers, not one of the smaller customers. Here we get the feeling that strong and larger customers will get boomerang because of their active work in the past. Minister, honestly tell us whether you have written this bill according to the size of your client or are, as President, a small and particularly young party who clearly does not fully understand the functioning of political parties in our history, their interest organisations and local committees. Maybe you have enough financial stimulants. Because in the SDS we are really wondering, especially in relation to individual European arrangements, why you have decided to regulate political parties so restrictively as to discipline them, as the fines also show. Otherwise, it is also the practice of this government's mandate. Raising fines and penalties in this regard is a very selective choice of the amount of fine due to large ranges. We hope that the height of the fine does not depend on the political conviction of the one who utters it. Indeed, Greece recommends a penalty increase, but these are only disproportionate to the other penalties in Slovenian legislation, where much less penalties are imposed for more serious offences. Mr. Secretary, let me finish this slowly. In the SDS, we are aware that some would want a country without political parties, that is, a transition from democracy to anarchy. On the other hand, the bill can lead to the poverty of the parties, their inaction and the consequent domination of only one true party, this is the return to another time, to another system. We are also interested, given that the government is coming to focus on the economic situation and reforms in the country, and from this point of view this is a rather insignificant topic or a hidden topic in terms of the economic crisis. That's why we're asking you why we're taking this exact time. Was she trying to hide something? For second reading, consider whether we do not want European comparable financing for customers, of course with appropriate and transparent supervision, or whether you will encourage under-funding for customers, particularly those with strong economic lobbyes in the back. Dear Minister, political parties are not only a source of corruption and customerism, as you would like to show by this bill, but they are also a motor in the governance of the country, and as stated in the law, this is the basis of the democratic order of every country. In the SDS we do not consent to negative discrimination, as the law on the skin is written to smaller parties, while constitutional lawyers and other lawyers point out that for a stable political system you should at least consider raising the threshold of entry into the National Assembly if you do not already introduce the majority electoral system and maybe bring together customers, and you punish strong parties with a long tradition for past successes, for smaller, perhaps even for yourself, and you try to raise the price or your position on the account. We don't agree to this in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The following is Mr Matjaž Han, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! It is true that this moment is a great time, there are many more extraordinary meetings, there are also urgent meetings, but it is certainly not among them. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on political parties, ladies and gentlemen is under consideration. Political parties, as carriers of parliamentary democracy, have obtained their legal framework through the Political Parties Act of 1994, and to this day it governs the financing of political parties. Over time, there have been many shortcomings and irregularities in this area. All the louder warnings coming from the professional public and international organisations, as well as practice itself, have shown that the financing of political parties needs a thorough overhaul. So today we have a proposal for amendments. Let me point out that this proposal is not due to the desire of policy, but is the result of numerous and increasing warnings after the necessary legal reform, which governs the system of financing political parties. These warnings simply cannot be overheared and ignored. Amendments to the law thus provide for a transparent and fairer way of financing political parties, which will also result in stricter provisions on the receipt of funds. Even in the light of the growing lack of public confidence in politics, it is right to regulate the financing of political parties in such a way that there will be no room for doubt as to how and why public funds are being used. At the government or at the Ministry of Field Affairs, the starting points for greater transparency and responsibility for financing political parties had already been prepared, but the necessary political will for specific changes had unfortunately not been prepared. This was also found by the OSCE mission when it assessed the early elections to the National Assembly in December 2011. At the same time, it is not possible to ignore the warning of Greece, which we all refer to today, with which Slovenia was informed about the financing of political parties at the end of 2007. Who was in power back then? Following a review of the provisions of the Political Parties Act and after meetings with representatives of the KPK, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, representatives of political parties and the general public, Greece's working group drew attention to a number of shortcomings and made recommendations. Let me just list a few key points. In order to require political parties to provide more detailed disclosure of their revenue and expenditure, including the nature and value of individual both monetary and real contributions and loans; in the annual report, political parties must provide separate data on the financial operations of organisations within the client structure; that the annual reports of political parties are publicly available; to ensure a more comprehensive audit of the operations of parliamentary political parties, both in private and public funds, should be carried out in accordance with international auditing standards; to clarify the competences and scope of the work of all bodies entrusted with supervisory tasks in relation to the financing of clients and campaigns; to raise the ceiling of sanctions in practice to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive; and to examine the possibility of sanctioning incorrect financing of independent bodies; to make more effective, proportionate and dissuasive resources available to the public in the area of public opinion on the question of public procurement, and to examine the possibility of sanctioning of incorrect financing. This was a few key comments and recommendations made by Greece. And what are those changes that are being enforced by the proposed law? Political parties will be prohibited from obtaining contributions and donations from any legal person, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals who carry out the activity on their own. The draft law defines when the work performed by a natural person as a contribution by a party is considered, also changes in the amount of the contribution to the disclosure of the data of the person who made the contribution, and lays down rules for disclosure of the data on loans to the parties concerned. Since the financing of the parties by the legal persons already mentioned is prohibited, the appropriations from the budget shall be divided according to the criterion that 75 % shall be allocated to the parties in proportion to the number of votes cast by the electorate and the other 25 % shall be received by equal shares. And that's the contribution that Mr. Secretary said earlier that two of the biggest customers gave it to him. The proposal sets out more clearly what the annual report of the parties must contain, and these will in particular have to show the financial performance of their internal units. In addition, the annual report will also be made public. In addition to liability for the offence, parties eligible for funding from public funds that are in breach of the provisions of the law will also be able to reduce or even abolish the right to public funding for a certain period of time. However, for the most serious offences, the proposaler considers that fines are sufficiently high and that those offences which will be defined by law are less defined. A comparative review of the financing of political parties across other European countries shows that this area is similarly regulated, but does not work without specific specifications. As a rule, all parties are financed from public and private resources. There are certain restrictions and, above all, transparent financial operations and regular supervision of these assets are required. It is not to be overlooked that most political parties, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Society of Integrity have actively participated in the emergence of the changes. The changes were also accompanied by consultations that highlighted the most acute anomalies. For this reason, we believe that the proposed proposal for legislative amendments is appropriate for further consideration. However, the social democrats will continue to strive to ensure that the law follows the principles of transparency and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u12	Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The financing of political parties is one of them which often occurs in the Slovenian media area. There is a lot of talk about meddling politics in the economy and vice versa. Various research has been carried out on the appropriate regulation of this area both by domestic and foreign institutions dealing with measures to effectively combat corruption and raising public awareness of the need for a high level of social integrity. A recent Transparency International survey has shown once again that the problem of corruption in Slovenia is systemic and has a devastating impact on the legal and social state. Slovenians see political parties and parliament as the most corrupt of the 12 state systems. Businessmen, entrepreneurs also recognise that bribery in Slovenia is a common practice. Among our citizens, there is a dominant feeling that politics is dominated by groups acting for their own interests. The situation in this area is highlighted by the statement made by the President of the KPK that financing political parties under the current legislation is a breeding ground for political corruption, as has already been said today. Slovenia is in a society of countries such as Greece, Spain and Italy, and we are worse not only than most other transition countries, but even from some developing countries to which we do not want to compare. These problems have become even more pervasive in this economic crisis, so it is high time for policy to gather enough will to set new legal frameworks, and in particular to change old patterns of behaviour. Before us, Members, today is the government's amendment proposal and the addition of the Political Parties Act, which gives us the opportunity to show our citizens that we are truly acting as responsible representatives of the people. In a way, today's package of two laws is another attempt to change to increase political culture. I will regret once again from this city that the first such attempt, this is a package of laws to raise the political culture drawn up by the National Gazette, has not received support. I am convinced that by adopting this package, we would give our citizens a positive signal and give them at least a handful of faith and confidence in the democratic system and the rule of law. What, then, does the public and the profession point to? The law should oblige the parties to disclose all revenue and expenditure, and the Court of Auditors should have full insight into their financial situation. Limited donations should only be made through bank transfers that are traceable. Monitoring the financing of clients and of individual political campaigns should be centralised. It should be taken over by the Court of Auditors, as fragmentation and ambiguity make it impossible for an effective control system. There is also a need to strengthen sanctions against offenders, political parties and donors, as they are also guilty or co-responsible. It is also necessary to provide an independent institution to impose sanctions and an effective mechanism to implement those sanctions. We can conclude that the key problem is the non-transparent conduct of political parties, in particular in the sense of reckless, unjustifiable, unintended or conflict of interest of the burdened use of public funds. It is therefore essential to regulate the financing of political parties and of electoral campaigns in the new legal order. The proposed amendment to the Law on Political Parties brings appropriate solutions that bring more order and transparency to the financing of political parties and follow the old recommendations of Greece for six years. The most important solution presented by the novel is a total ban on the financing of clients of all legal entities, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals engaged in activities. As a result of this limitation, the criteria for the allocation of funds from the State budget are amended, while at the same time providing parliamentary parties with an adequate legal basis for obtaining dedicated budgetary resources from the functioning of the groups of Members. Political parties are one of the basic foundations of democracy and the State must therefore ensure the appropriate level of resources from the State budget for their smooth functioning and thus the exercise of the constitutional right to political integration. It is prepared in cooperation with the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Court of Auditors. Even now, we can hear some warnings that further changes will be needed. This is likely to be demonstrated by today's debate, and we have every opportunity to continue the process. I hope this novel gets your support today as well. He has the support of Members and Members of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all hailed! Because of some of the actions of individuals, politics has fully come to a standstill and is losing people’s confidence, even though we are not all alike, that we are not all corrupt, that we are not all liars and that even though most of us try every day to really find better solutions for our country. With the desire to take the right measures to actually change this negative public opinion, we do not engage for the first time in this reference to the National Assembly. Recently, we had on the table a package of law on officials, which should increase people's confidence in politics and politics by limiting the possibility of candidateing. Today, however, we have two laws before us, which relate mainly to greater transparency in the financial operations of political parties. The proposal for a new bill on political parties is intended to be based on the recommendations made by the anti-corruption group – Greece at the Council of Europe in 2007 concerning transparency in the financing of political parties. And what conclusions did Greece come to? It has identified some legal shortcomings related to insufficient transparency of funding sources, a lack of credit admissibility arrangements, the absence of the possibility of disclosure of internal organisational units of parties, the admissibility of untransparent client financing by connected legal entities and, last but not least, poor public access to annual client reports. Greece also drew attention to the reciprocal link between a client's donation and a certain service or advantage resulting therefrom, and to the great lack of supervisory powers, to the greatest extent by the Court of Auditors, in identifying possible irregularities in the conduct of political parties. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that some of the solutions proposed in the amendment to the Political Parties Act are quite revolutionary, which is not necessarily bad. The first amendment is undoubtedly a proposed ban on the financing of political parties by all legal entities and independent entrepreneurs, which represents one of the most drastic interventions in the way political parties are financed. In fact, this is not a new idea, because we have also proposed an identical solution in the Slovenian People's Party in the programme or work plan for early State elections in 2011. Back then, we felt that the current method of financing political parties opened up an opportunity for the system of grants, i.e. the return of political or other services in exchange for financial donations from companies. This amendment on the prohibition of financing by all legal persons and independent entrepreneurs in the Slovenian People's Party's Group does not conflict, as we are aware that this is a path towards greater transparency in the functioning of political parties. At the same time, however, we are asked how it is intended to ensure the same level of modern democracy that is being developed and created through the political party system. I hope that the government does not expect more resources to flow into client budgets from the municipal and state budgets, as this would be extremely distasteful and unfair to citizens in these circumstances. We therefore expect from the competent ministry or government a clearer definition of the implications for the state budget and other financial resources, such as the current explanations. We cannot agree in any way to support any Government's intention to increase public funds for the operation of political parties in this current, low-day public finances situation. The second major amendment concerns the contributions of natural persons to political parties whose amount is limited to ten average salaries in the country, underlining that all contributions higher than one average gross salary will be made publicly available. The restriction measure for natural persons certainly contributes to greater transparency, but on the other hand, there remains an unanswered question whether this will actually reduce the risk of corruption in practice, as there is a possibility that this provision can be played on the basis of the current proposal. For example, the prohibition on the financing of legal persons and espouses could lead, in practice, to cases where funding from grants could be channelled or dispersed into a series of contributions from natural persons who would be directly below the proposed legal level, leaving the identity of persons undisclosed. The third set of proposed amendments concerns increased control over the use of allocated public funds by political parties, increasing the powers of the Court of Auditors. In the Slovenian People's Party, before the 2011 elections, we defended the view that control over the use of funds was inadequate, as a result of the inadequate powers of the Court of Auditors. We therefore welcome these proposed solutions, which give the Court of Auditors the power to manage the customer's business audits, in a way that all political parties entitled to public funding will come through the sieve within four years. There are also increasing fines and sanctions that may also result in the reduction or abolition of the right to finance from public funds. From the point of view of democracy, it is of paramount importance that all political parties have relatively equal conditions for their actions, irrespective of the characteristics in which they differ. It should be borne in mind that all parties, in particular parliamentary, have the same amount of work, but cannot do it equally well because the differences in staff and other resources between the parties are enormous. Therefore, at least part of the funding must also be adjusted. We are convinced that the regulation of the new state budget funding ratio by a key of 25% of the fixed level of funds is the same for all political parties that have received 1% of the voter votes in recent elections and 75% of the funds allocated on the basis of the electoral result, a step in the right direction, a direction of greater equality of political parties and a greater chance of hearing every citizen's voice on the basis of pluralism of opinions. Let me finish. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the low ratings achieved in public by political parties, which is due to both the general situation in society, the inability to negotiate and the consequences of the actions of individuals who have forgotten that politics must first and foremost be a moral example for others. We estimate that the proposed amendment to the Political Parties Act is one of the steps in which we can reverse this rating, so we will vote that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! One of the postulates of modern democracy is certainly the free operation of various political parties. These are entities which exercise the constitutional right to unify and which compete with each other at political level, of course with a view to winning elections and running the country. Any entity wishing to act needs certain financial resources for its operation, and this also applies to political parties, whether they are parliamentary or extraparliamentary parties. The costs incurred by political parties are different in nature. The very nature of political parties needs flexibility to adapt to and respond to unforeseen or urgent political events and therefore the financing of the parties is specifically regulated. The government has approached the amendment of this part of the legislation in terms of transparency, greater transparency, more effective control and prevention of corruption, conflicts of interest, clientism and nepotism. Sounds nice and right, but – are the government's solutions correct, justifiable, constitutional? We have also asked ourselves these questions in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia when reading this proposal several times. Of course, we advocate transparency, efficiency and use of these funds for legitimate purposes. That's not even a dilemma. Already data on revenue and donor funds to individual political parties for 2012 show that donors to DeSUS were least generous. And it is in this part of the funds, which is accounted for as a donation, that many things can be involved, which means that it poses a greater threat to opacity and concealment, so that our client has not received the readings in this direction, as it cannot be. Data on donors for 2012: Positive Slovenia 77,435 Euros, Slovenian Democratic Party 163,000 Euros, Social Democrats 96,000 Euros, National List 23,000 Euros, Slovenian People's Party 38,000 Euros, Nova Slovenija 70,000 Euros and DeSUS only 8,000 Euros. Nevertheless, at the same time, we are also committed to the free operation of political parties. Here we are wondering whether the Government's proposal in this direction is just a little too rigid. The total ban on donations to political parties, the restriction on the acquisition of loans and a completely different distribution of public money between large and small customers already indicates this. The distribution of public money, the current system of 10% fixed labour and 90% of variable labour distributed among the parties according to the electoral outcome, to the proposed system of 25% fixed labour and 75% variable labour, requires serious discussion. The election result is an objective way of determining the recognition of each political party. According to the proposal, parties falling out of Parliament and smaller parties would receive significantly more funding for their activities than they are today. We are asked the question, but it is certainly not malicious whether the Minister, who is the creator of this proposal and who is at the same time the President of the parliamentary party, who now counts as 7 Members, is pessimistic about the outcome of the next election and expects the popularity of his party to fall. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, who were elected on the DeSUS list, which is somehow counted among the smaller parliamentary parties, ask whether such a proposal is worthy of support. In general, we have great concerns about the whole, and we estimate that significant restrictions on the financing of political parties are also in terms of constitutionality or non-constitution, as they are an intervention in the right of expression and the right to unification. We reiterate that Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia do not deny the need for transparency, effective control over the use of funds and the legitimate use of funds, nor do we deny the comprehensive regulation of the risk of corruption, conflicts of interest and clientism. However, the question arises to us whether the proposals are appropriate and actually follow the objective to be pursued. We believe and expect that most of the answers to these questions will already be received in today's debate, and only on this basis will we be able to reach certain conclusions in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia on the appropriateness or inappropriateness of this proposal. Therefore, I cannot yet present the single and final position of our Group at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you, too. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar. And get ready, Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go, Mrs. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome the Minister with my co-worker and all my colleagues and colleagues! The law represents an important step towards greater transparency in the business of political parties. The most important proposal of this novel is that it prohibits the financing of political parties by legal entities. We deal with the government and therefore every euro that somehow flows or travels through our customers' accounts has a different impact on the lives of our citizens, I would say, greater influence than the millions that travel through businesses. Therefore, it is important that we have a transparent system that clearly reveals where the fuel that drives the customer machinery comes from. The fact is that the proposed measures close an important source of funding for political parties, but at the same time pave the way for the re-establishment of citizens' confidence in the independence of our work. It is certainly one bitter tablet that some customers will have to swallow, but at the same time it is also a powerful medicine that will significantly accelerate recovery with the mistrust of the infected Slovenian policy. The amendment of legislation in this area, as we have already heard today, has also been recommended by a group of Greek countries. We have heard that this report has already been issued in 2007, and apparently none of the ministers have so far taken a bite into this sour apple. Non-governmental organisations also give us a clear picture of the lack of transparency in the financing of political parties, and it is crucial to prevent any interesting interlinkages between politics and the economy. Although I am very reluctant to go through the past, I have looked at the Internet a little bit and wanted to get articles from previous years in order to see if certain economists, who were set up by the policy, were then helping their clients who proposed them with funding. But among other things, I came across almost such a sinister detail, for example, Mladina wrote in 2004: "The Lashko Brewery, led by Tone Turnšek, member of Forum 21, LDS candidate in local elections, is one of the most generous sponsors of Janševa SDS. The Lascans also donated SLS and LDS, but much less than the opposition party." I do not want to accuse or say anything other than that these investments were clearly in the pillars of parliamentary democracy, which the parties certainly are, untransparent, and this proposed law is abolishing. I also welcome other amendments, from the fact that the rules on the composition of the annual report of the parties are clearer and more detailed, that we in some way give jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors to revise the business of the parties, and I believe that in practice there will also be an effective measure to suspend the financing of the parties from the budget if it is found that the parties are in breach of this law. I also welcome the solution that part of the funds dedicated to the functioning of the parliamentary groups can be transparently transferred to the party because it does not make sense to keep our eyes closed, that we now have a system in practice where many are financed or employed at the expense of the parliamentary group, and we rarely see it in the national assembly. I believe that Minister Virant has properly addressed the issues of financing political parties, and I am pleased that the successful closure of the chapter on deleted nuts has also affected this tough nut that is on our hands today. I will, of course, support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the word and the mag is ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia in relation to this law has already been presented by our leader of the parliamentary group. In Positive Slovenia we certainly support all the changes that lead to greater transparency, the transparency and clarity of the functioning of all state authorities and state systems, in particular the changes that make regulation more viable in a way, as already mentioned by colleague Katarina, that some practices that have been common for several years and that we all know exist and are not disputed in themselves, as they do in writing, and thus any doubt as to whether something is right or not is falling away. Of course, we are happy, and I am also pleased that some of the recommendations made by Greece in this way and by this law are being followed, but of course I also wonder why these recommendations had to take six years to come. During these six years, many things could have been done and changed and the effects could now be observed and evaluated. But because it's the first reading of this law, but some of my concerns about this and such changes. As the Minister has already said, and as we all know, most of the world's normal, developed, modern countries operate according to the principle of the parliamentary system, because political parties operate in the parliamentary system. Political parties have a clear role that everyone who knows these things well knows, and people should understand it. Unfortunately, it happens that people don't understand it. And the situation in our country is also responsible. The past actions and practices that have been going on for years have led to a situation in which, now that we have political parties and politicians, Members and other incredibly poor reputations – last but not least, some forerunners have said. And I wonder if taking some measures that prohibit something is, and so on, the right way. Greece, too, does not talk about this in its recommendations, let's say that it is necessary to ban donations from businesses, but rather that the system of donations from businesses needs to be made more transparent. And in general, there is greater transparency of what is a trend in modern democracy. There is no way to ban all possible future actions that one can use in a desire to do something wrong, to criminalize and so forth. As is known in criminal law, everywhere else is the same. There will always be someone who wants to do something wrong, one step forward. Therefore, some of the pre-eminent concerns about what needs to be banned are, in my opinion, an unfair solution that only binds hands and leads to some solutions, which then lead to Slovenians to refugees in the world, as were some of the solutions proposed in Dr Muscolo's package. So my first thesis is: more transparency, not prohibitions and restrictions that are not comparable to world regulations. What's this all about? Whatever the reputation of political parties and politicians is, we will not resolve this by means of regulations and legislation, so I do not agree with the pre-presidents' assertions that this law will once again contribute to the greater reputation of politicians. The action of individual politicians, persons for a person who together will create a better functioning of politics than that, will contribute to the greater reputation of politicians. Just as a poor reputation for politics has led to the actions of individuals on different sides, which have led things to the point where they are. Nor do I agree that all politicians are corrupt, that people think they are corrupt, that they have been corrupt, and so on. I am at the top of one of the political parties, a member of the National Assembly, and in a year and a half, no one has offered me any bribe, has in no way tried to talk me into any strange activity, nor has he approached me in any way that would be disputed. So obviously everything's not as bad as they say, or I'm the person who's already giving the impression on the outside that she won't accept it. That's my option, too. From the personal ethics and morals of an individual, a policy and one that operates in state policy is most dependent, such individuals unite in political groups, political groups must respect and support such individuals. Those — and such — will always be excluded or not tolerated in all areas — which, however, deviate from such action. What is happening to us in Slovenia, and I have noticed this only now that I am very active in politics, is that in politics – and politics, let us not forget, means the possibility or desire to participate in the governance of the country, but this is a very important mission – nobody wants to participate anymore. No serious responsible person who, by some chance, does not have this option, practically decides to come alone and say, I want to join the party in order to actively cooperate, be a politician and so on, because we have all put politics on such a low level. And in the end, we will lead, or we are almost already, to the fact that the countries, the most important groups in which we are all united, will no longer want to be governed by anyone else. Indeed, only those who have no better alternative will approach management and participation in political life. I therefore call on all of us to work together in the adoption of this legislation and any similar legislation to ensure that the reputation of politics, political parties, is raised together in order to ensure the necessary transparency, and that each of us works in this direction in its day-to-day work. Then some restrictive laws and restrictions and prohibitions will not even be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims, prepare yourself for Mr. Michael Prevc. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u22	Good-bye to all of you. I am sure that Mr Minister felt divine when he proposed this law, because the old proverb says that God first created himself a beard. And let's see who's gonna make the biggest profit out of this marriage. That party, which will be a small one who will inoculate from Parliament, will be subject to an incomparable number of resources under this law than has been the case with legislation so far. Of course, we are talking about a very likely model of a party whose president has already turned so much salt that he will be running from Parliament at the next elections. And let someone convince me that this is not done on one exact expected model. It's just that it's so obvious that you probably don't have to recalculate. Of course, then there is little logic for a neighbor to die, as is typical of Slovenia, then "nafilal" is a whole lot of such very non-living provisions. I personally think that we should follow the principles of Greece, which required more transparency, not police restraint and ridicule. Just as the law is now written down, it is so extensive that in certain cases there can be really absurd situations. If you are going to do something, I don’t know, we always used to cook something, bring it, share something — you will be punished for it if you read it consistently. So I'm on my own, let's get this straight. Which is a very interesting logic, let someone convince me that this is European comparable. It's a little hard. More interestingly, all control mechanisms are so written that I am very interested in who will be one of the most legal, normal services still available to any political party. What does that mean? I don't know if the customers will have to do their own printing works or anything like that or their own company. This in some ways leads to ghettoisation, and I am also sure that it does not lead to any greater transparency, as some of you have already said. If someone wants to hide something, they'll hide something. If there is an entrepreneur who wants to finance a client there, he will give each of the employees some money to put it down and the matter will be completely covered up. Then the current way is more transparent to understand each other than what is now proposed. If you rape people with something, people react. Some of you have already foretold this, so you probably don't have to lose words in this part. The law, such as it is, is inanimate and in some ways very police or socialist, is sometimes called. However you turn around, you are always at fault, with the fact that, interestingly, even mistakes under this law, are so unwittingly sanctioned that it will be very interesting to see who will be willing to perform any political function. Except, of course, the one who's going to split out of Parliament. She will not have these problems, nor will her officials have them, so I said that the proposaler must have felt very divine when he proposed this law because it was obviously written in one specific case. Such legislation is not democratic, nor does it make sense. The system must be made life-saving, so that it works, and must be transparent, in order to reduce the possibility of informal influences, to reduce the possibility of manipulation, to equalize the starting bases of all. In Slovenia, however, the basics of all are equal – especially when it comes to political parties? Yeah, sure. This is roughly what it looks like, I can give him some specific cases, say, just by chance one of the politicians declares just before the elections that I don't know what, just for a human being, if possible, they're still giving him a good turn for the family, they're declaring each other the best in the world, they're publishing him some book, something that in a newspaper company, even cases like this, before any elections, and then someone will convince me that they have the same vats for everyone. Yeah, well, if you just fly in from Mars to the head, then you can believe it. And some also believe that the earth is a flat plate and that the sun is shining around it. But the problem is, things aren't even in the first place. Not at all. And you wouldn't be with this marriage. This law only changes things to the benefit of smaller and, above all, out-of-parliamentary parties. Those who probably find it hard to get a donor because they're invisible, irrelevant, because that's the world, everyone turns away from losers. And I'm also wondering what the purpose is. Is this really about more transparency? Personally, I don't think so, because this way it won't be – there will be more punishment, there will be more police state, there will be more jokes. There will be no more respect for politics, which some of you have dreamed of, and there will be no punishment. There will have to be a completely different course of action, and there will be a different set of fundamental principles, which I have already talked about for the last time. Now it's just the whole system, and I personally understand this proposal as part of it, and the last time that Mr. Muscolo, this is Mr. Muscolo 2, which is now before us, is set up so that political parties are constantly portraying themselves as something negative, like something where only something strange is happening, a smudge, an exercise of private interests and I don't know what. The problem is that only political parties allow democracy to work at all. Like Churchill said, it's the worst system, but no one's ever figured out anything better. That's the problem. And if you want the system to work, you must first allow the one who is based on how things work and make things transparent and, again, I stress – and – this is essential, and those who are as even as possible in the start-up. But then there can't be one political option practically in the hands of all the mainstream media, and the other can't be published on Twitter and the Internet. This is not a democratic state, and then, in such a light, any further adoption of measures is quite an interesting thing. It is no wonder, then, that the many who made a donation with the best purpose did not want to be publicly exposed in such a system. That's a nasty thing. But do you think such prohibitions will really make it impossible for them to equalize, if you want, the starting points? No, no, no, no, no! They'll only sharpen them even more, and that's what I think those of you who have proposed this marriage know very well. This is just a change in the system in favour of what is actually the biggest side of the proportional electoral system, that the entire system is the hostage of the smallest ones, such as the government always, this once-in-a-lifetime coalition, the hostage of some small parties that can blackmail, enforce their own, and the important reforms are "corrupt" and then reverse the whole country. That's the kind of thing we should really talk about. And this is because it wants to remove everything in reality, because it is really the goal, everything that is some control mechanisms, and among them the first parties, because only the party allows, this is taught by all the textbooks, organised political power and it makes the democratic system work. Then it's predicted that this will, I don't know, be transferred to the streets, to some country choirs. This reminds me deeply of the work of self-government socialism, which we all know has not worked. This is being seen now, purely officially, as some potential good options for Slovenia. You all know that. On the other hand, the incredibly good qualities and innocuousness are to be attributed to some other branches of government or even to some individual commission, such as the so-called anti-corruption commission, which I have warned about the last time, politically set up politicians when they talk about other politicians, that they are corrupt or that they are not corrupt, is already at that point in the conflict of interest. But let someone convince me that the establishment of this commission is not the biggest systemic corruption in Slovenia. So much, by the way, about her credibility about the purpose of such an arrangement. And you will not find such arrangements anywhere else in the European Union. It's a Slovenian specialty. To hide it, it's like, "Yeah, you can't talk about it." And in this way, in all ways try to limit itself to actually discussing the key things that are really important for development at all, it is in some way necessary to know that every law that is excessively criminal, including the law that is anti-democratic. [[..]] What is proposed today is anti-democratic because it contains a bunch of inconclusive stretching provisions, looking great, but also so that things can't work well or one can get screwed up to unconsciousness, and the other will look over the fingers, as is usually done. And so it is necessary to make a different law, which, as it is said, will not be so punished, but will make more transparency possible and will not force you to search for some of the points that you have already foretold at this speaker’s desk. This does not lead anywhere, but at least more democratically and more transparently. That is why I would suggest to the proposer that he put these laws where Mr Musculo belongs, and that he read the recommendations of Greece again, because they are not going in this direction as this legislation goes. It goes in the direction of making it work with more transparency.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you. I give my word to Mr Michael Prevc, to prepare the mag. Majda Potter. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good day to you all! Look, more or less, it is clear to us that political parties in the public are reaching a relatively low rating. Where are the reasons? In my opinion, the first reason is in some general state in our society. I also find that there is a very important reason for inability to negotiate political parties, especially in key matters that are weighing our country. I am convinced that the operation of a handful of individuals by crossing the boundaries of legitimate and fair care for the low reputation of political parties in general and, last but not least, of Slovenian politics as a whole. I therefore estimate that, with this amendment of the law, we are still giving the public a message that we want more transparency and more control over ourselves, and we are not demanding this only and only from others. The proposal brings quite a few revolutionary changes, you might say, which at first sight do not seem bad to me. Above all, the first change seems very important to me, namely the ban on financing political parties by businesses. I am convinced that the current way of financing political parties wide-rangingly opens up the possibility of corruption, as we have already seen today, since it allows, as we have also said in the party's position, the system to give-dam. State-owned companies are particularly exposed here. Therefore, I think that the proposed amendment is the only way to increase transparency in the functioning of political parties. However, it is clear to me that this will make the state budget more burdensome, and in further procedures I would like to see the government more clearly and in particular in the figures define the implications of this new law on the budget. I also find it interesting that another amendment concerns the contributions of natural persons to political parties. The level of funds is limited and the public publication of all contributions higher than one average gross salary is also, in my opinion, a step towards greater transparency and reducing corruption risk. The increased competence of the Court of Auditors to review the conduct of political parties financed by public funds is certainly welcome in this amendment of the law. However, I believe that, above all, the stronger human resources parties will have quite a few concerns about this new state budget funding ratio, and we know that 25% of the fixed level of funds is the same for all the political parties that have received 1% of the votes in the last elections, and 75% of the funds will be allocated on the basis of the electoral result. We need to be aware, in particular, of the fact that smaller parties are well aware of the fact that, above all, parliamentary parties have all the same amount of work that human resources-intensive customers can do in a much better way. I believe the law can be improved through procedure. We will actively participate in this process in the Slovenian People's Party. At this point, I can say that I will vote in favour of the conclusion that this law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! I will base my debate on three documents, namely the Greek 2007 report, a comparative review prepared by the Research Centre, the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, and, of course, the law before us. It has already been said that political parties are a fundamental element of pluralist democracy and that plural democracy without political parties cannot be imagined or guaranteed, even though the reputation of political parties is, in my opinion, at the lowest possible level. For those who wish to enter the political space will also have to recognise the rules adopted, under which democracy can only function and fulfil certain basic conditions. It now appears to be an open possibility of criticism, but then in the next step, those who reenter will also have to follow the rules. In the Comparative Review, a number of findings can be found on limiting the financing of political parties. Of course, our neighbours Austrians have no restrictions on financing by economic operators as well. Donations may be for both parties and candidates. It's a little different in France. Since 1995, donations from companies have been banned. In Italy, which we know as a politically less stable country, with numerous elections, there are donations of natural and legal persons to political parties without legal restrictions. The only costs of the election campaign are mostly limited by law. Well, the situation in Germany is still different because country legislation has to be followed and the picture is very different. But among those countries that are also prohibited from donating companies, Belgium is, for example, Belgium. Limited donation is also in Georgia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Ptrugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Macedonia. Interestingly, if we look at which countries they are, they are the ones that we say the transition has accompanied them more efficiently, but they are not Western-type democracies. At least some people don't. I consider Portugal particularly because of historical developments and because of the relatively authoritarian political conditions that they have lived through for a long time. So this situation is very different. I see in the law as a novelty and as an advantage in particular Article 7, in which I point out that for the first time in political parties women's political groups are treated equally as youth groups, that they also have the opportunity to obtain funds on individual projects tenders if these groups are properly registered. That seems like an advantage to me. If we are talking about how to ensure equal opportunities for women's participation in politics, then this is also largely linked to financial resources. I will not talk about some countries having financial incentives instead of sanctions for those political parties that allow for a higher percentage of women's emancipation. Not just running for office, like we do in law, but women's emancipation. It all leads to a paritative democracy, of which we are Members, as well as members of the Social Democrats. So much for this news, which I very much support. I would now like to respond to some further discussions. There's been a lot of talk that we need to be more transparent. A lot of words have been said about transparency, but forgive me if we do not add to transparency the criteria by which transparency can be recognized. However, this is how books and accounts are opened, what is the availability of accounting data, what is the obligation to publish data, what is the reporting obligation. And part of all transparency is linked to supervision and sanctions from the Greek report. Read the 2007 report and see how extensive these chapters are. And now some have called for the law to follow the recommendations of the Greek rather than control the police and I don't know what else. Well, I will only read to you four of the recommendations in the concluding chapter, from the conclusions I read: "There is a need to explore ways to increase the transparency of significant donations to political parties by companies and actions and decisions", this is done. The decision on how these donations could benefit donors. Then, "to raise the upper limit of sanctions under the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act and the Political Parties Act, to ensure that the party does not retain the funds it has acquired in contravention of the laws cited above, to consider, for example, the possibility of granting powers to sanction the incorrect financing of political parties to an independent body and that supervision, i.e. the mandate to monitor, investigate and implement the rules on political financing, is conferred on one independent body." So those who speak of transparency without control and without sanctions speak in vain. This does not surprise me, however, if I recall the refugees, if I recall much more, and if I recall not least that at Greece's invitation to talk about political parties, our political party went, as Members or representatives of the Social Democrats' Group also went to talk with Greece or this Greek evaluation group in 2012, and I spoke about that report last time we spoke about the ethical code. It would be good to review some things and then move more easily within the proposed solutions and have a slightly more realistic view of the proposed legal solutions. Just attacking these proposals, arguing how transparent it is for you, cannot be accepted and understood with excessive seriousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. Although the Minister has been reported, since he is not in the Chamber at this time, I give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak, and then when the Minister joins us, he will be given the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President for your word, distinguished representative of the Government, Minister, who is not in the Chamber, distinguished colleague and colleague! I must also say that Mrs Potrata gave me a very good point when she cited the 2007 Greek report and read some conclusions as well. But what she has read can be seen that Greece is committed to ensuring greater transparency in real life, making the operations of political parties transparent and also establishing proper control over the use of funds. Nowhere in these recommendations does Greece speak of the need to limit the financing of political parties in the way we see it through the proposal of this law. I am also in favour of the proposal that companies, public institutions, independent entrepreneurs operating in any way with public funds be said by means of funds from the state budget or local communities or public institutions or economic enterprises, in the majority ownership of the State, that these companies or organisations should not finance political parties or that this should also be in a more transparent manner. However, I do not support the fact that no individual entrepreneur or society should fund a political party. When we talk about the objectives of this law, when we talk about transparency, I cannot get rid of the feeling that this law does not guarantee a truly transparent conduct of political parties, because I think that some parties may be looking for holes in this law. This law is not in line with certain other laws. Here I will refer to what the Minister said in the introduction that he has coordinated the law with both the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission. We also received comments from all Members and Members on the table made by the Court of Auditors on the proposed amendments to the Political Parties Act of 5. 8. Of course, they participated in the process of drafting these changes, but this change that came into the National Assembly was not in line with the Court of Auditors. In this letter, the Court of Auditors draws attention to a number of irregularities, illegality and also to a provision which is unconstitutional, in conjunction with Article 150 of the Constitution. And for those who accompany us in front of the screens, I can say that this 158th article speaks of the Court of Auditors and that the Court of Auditors is independent and bound by the Constitution and the law in its work. Why am I saying this? Because by means of this law, we impose additional obligations on the Court of Auditors, which do not have a basis in the Constitution or in law, by amending the Law on Political Parties. When we are also talking about proposals whether the Ministry has taken account of the Court of Auditors' comments, of course, on the conditions under which it will be able to carry out appropriate audits of the conduct of political parties, I think in the part where this law says that the Court of Auditors will have to review one third of the operations of political parties in the first year and within four years all political parties. Here, the Court of Auditors has very rightly warned the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for public administration or local self-government, that they will not be able to guarantee this in the manner proposed. I am talking about the part where we have in the proposal for this law that two additional auditors will be required to do this. The Court of Auditors warns the Ministry that they will not be able to provide these powers with two of them and that the funds provided for their operations will not be sufficient. And these are things that aren't coordinated. I wonder what the purpose of this law is. Several fellow Members and colleagues pointed out in previous discussions that they did not respect the principle of equality before the law. I do not believe that all political parties will be treated equally by way of funding following this proposal. Of course, smaller political parties will have the advantage. Is it fair to citizens and citizens who already warn us today that the public sector is too expensive, that we have internal reserves and do not make use of them, and again in the budget we will provide funding to the political parties? Is that the right way? Personally, I don't think that and that we're privileged again, instead of focusing on what Greece is really alerting us to, and also the OSCE, when it analysed the last parliamentary early elections. It is a matter of ensuring transparency of business and adequate supervision. But not only through the Court of Auditors, it can also be with an independent supervisory authority. It doesn't matter. But this transparency and supervision must be ensured in a legally appropriate manner. When we talked about the fact that there are no more donations today, of course, because in the past it may have been too misused, but perhaps not by political parties, but perhaps by someone else. Maybe our companies, our businesses. Let us remember years ago when Mercator was led, and I will say, I believe it will be over, Mr Janković asked if any independent entrepreneur or any company wanted to come to the Mercator chain, it was also necessary to sign the Donate Contract for the Ljubljana Handball Club. That was a condition. And a lot of companies failed to do so, and a lot of companies were not equal because they were unable to pay these grants. And these are the ways to prosecute corruption. We talk and listen today or we can see in the media that there is corruption in health. Let's go to where millions run away. I, as Ambassador Masha Kociper has already said, and here I agree with her, although I cannot agree with her many times, but in this case we are not all Members and Members corrupt and corrupt. But today, in society and in the public eye, it's as if all of us who are involved in politics are corrupt, corrupt, that we are all in criminal proceedings. Yeah, maybe we are, because we've been alerting you to some kind of irregularity, unconstitutionality or illegality, and then someone takes the right and charges you and puts you in the process. Just for what purpose — or with the right intention to really pursue corruption or to prevent political action? Let me finish at this point. I think this debate will be very fruitful. I believe that the Minister will take some comments and also make recommendations to the knowledge and that we will then come up with the right solutions. Certainly in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not against transparency or control over the work of political parties. Absolutely not! However, this must be in accordance with the Constitution, legislation and the right way and with the right objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you, too. I give the floor first to the Minister. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to all those who have already told you that you will support the marriage at first reading. Looks like he's going to get a lot of extra support, just like the days ago. It is also good that we all obviously agree that the recommendations of Greece must be implemented. Maybe we don't exactly agree on ways of doing this. And it's true, here were possible different paths, not the only way to save. We have proposed what appears to us to be the law, which has also been adopted in the coalition, and also with the opposition parties, we have talked about it quite a bit, and then another consideration will show through the amendments, or we can do something differently. It is important, however, that these recommendations of Greece be implemented because we are already six years behind schedule. And that is so in the European family, if you want to be reputable in that you respect certain standards of human rights, democracy, transparency, then these international recommendations need to be respected. And this is particularly true for smaller countries, because we must be the ones who respect this also so that we can then also demand from large ones, because large countries often go beyond these rules and standards with their power. I owe you some answers. It was said that this proposal was ready for the first ball. Absolutely not. This legislation had been in preparation for a long time, and a lot of material was in the cabinet drawers when I took over the ministry, and all that had to be done was to put these solutions together and move on with it. It is important that the decision be taken to take some step to close the story. And it didn't happen overnight. I must also say that many ideas were only born in coordination with the parliamentary groups. Nor did the idea of different allocations of money between smaller and larger customers come from my pupil, not from the Ministry of the Interior, but came, interestingly, from larger customers. A very interesting and positive surprise, I might say. Undoubtedly, the financial situation for political parties is getting worse for all of us - political parties. Some income outage will be, if we look at, for example, the year 2012, 7.72% of all revenue received from political parties from donations. It's not a death blow, but it's probably a smaller amount of money, no doubt. I also doubt that it would be appropriate to increase the budgetary expenditure for political parties at this time. That would be a very bad message. What it means at home means is that we will have to adapt and that political parties will also have to get used to a slightly less modest life. It is likely that the campaigns will be a little more modest, but I think that the last campaign for the presidential elections has shown that obviously money is no longer so crucial to the electoral outcome. I must say very directly that I have not thought as a minister about the party I belong to or preside over, but I have looked at the matter from a professional point of view, in view of what Greece has recommended to us. And also those provisions that seem to be in favour of, say, smaller parties, such as the Civil Gazette, have actually come into law on the initiative of larger, stronger parties. That was very nice. One of the coalition parties, a strong, large party itself, proposed a different arrangement between those parties that exceed the parliamentary threshold and others. This was also greatly welcomed by the non-parliamentary parties, with whom we also sat, we also had a conversation and it suits them. When money redistributes, it's always like someone wins, someone loses. In no case can such a thing be taken without the decision of the major parties. If all the great ones in Parliament were to vote against it, it would not be accepted anyway. Often the question that arises in some laws that some of you don't agree with is why we have to do this right now, whether this is the most important thing right now, or whether it's a priority. I don't know, my principle is that, the problems that are on the table, you have to solve, second after second, the nuts that are on the table, you have to solve the third, today one, tomorrow the third, tomorrow the third. Probably not the most important thing in the world right now to change customer legislation. But if we have Greek warnings that are six years old, it's probably worth doing something about. And if public perception of the parties is such as it is, regardless of what one of us thinks or is justified or not, it is also our duty to react and go to this public perception and make some moves that we also have to make properly public to say, here, but we have made some change in the direction of greater transparency, even though to the detriment of political parties. There was also talk about the electoral system. As you know, I am among the great advocates of the change in the electoral system in the direction of the greater impact of voters on the choice of candidate, i.e. in the direction of preferential voting. There's a point to talking about the electoral threshold, too. Again, if I look at this from the point of view of the state, not from the point of view of my own party, it would probably be useful to think about raising the electoral threshold of 5.6% due to the known positive effects that the electoral threshold has. I am very pleased with the support of the Slovenian People's Party, I must say that the spirit of Mr Radovan Žerjev, your previous president, and I also very much respect your new President, but Žerjav was the only one who advocated some new standards in this policy, and he has done a great deal for it. And I have to say, he's not in politics anymore, but sometimes we hear from each other on the phone, he looks at things from the outside, and he's not most excited about how things turn out. Well, I'd certainly support this marriage, and I don't doubt it at all. I agree with what colleague Maša Kociper said that these prohibitions, which the law imposes, do not by chance give a 100% guarantee that we will not have any corruption, no customerism in this sphere, because any prohibition can be circumvented, played and so on. However, those who stick to these rules of the game do not have this problem of mixing the interests of the economy and politics, economy and customers. But I think we're all aware that this is a real problem. A firm that donates establishes some kind of corporate-debt relationship, even though it doesn't say it out loud. Ms Ramšak mentioned the necessary coordination with the Court of Auditors. After the law had already been tabled in the National Assembly, we met once again with the Court of Auditors, which in fact had some more comments, and we agree with them to prepare the appropriate amendments to be tabled in the second reading. It is, for example, a question whether the Court of Auditors must or may carry out an audit if the KPK proposes it. They say it would be better if we wrote "may" and that's where it'll go. Is this a key step in the fight against corruption in Slovenia? Of course it's not the key and it's not the most important. I think, I have always said this, that the key issues in the fight against corruption have taken place on the basis of the police-deputy-judgment. Other things are also important, prevention is important, the public procurement system is important, the customer financing system. This is all very important. But the key is how politics works, how the prosecution works, and how the courts work. And yet here we all need to find out that it's moving, "eppur you moove," the police are working, the NPU is working, the investigations are being conducted, the charges are being filed. And this will continue to happen. Statistics on economic crime and corruption are improving. In the first half of this year, I will watch the entire period, called Gorenakovo and mine together, so that I will not now attribute any credit to myself, the statistics have risen. More economic crime and corruption have been investigated by the NPU, more complaints have been made, twice as much property damage that has occurred in these crimes is said to be happening and will continue, I guarantee you. All the conditions for this are guaranteed and the holy cows in this country are no longer. It's gone! And we've seen the epilogues before. If you think about the effect of the judgment in the Clean Blade case, a classic corruption case. All those who may think about such an approach to public procurement, i.e. the corruption approach, will consider, in my view, 10 times before they undertake any corruption attempts when they see how the matter can end. To end the legal judgment and the imprisonment, as in the case of the Pure shovel, where those who gave were convicted and those who received it. Now I went to a little bit of another area to point out that I am not making any illusions that we will end corruption in Slovenia with this law. The fight against corruption is one big mosaic that needs to be put together and moved on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. He can have a magic word. Ivan Vogrin, but I don't see him in the hall right now. That's why he's got the word "magic." Matthew Tonin. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u32	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Political parties are currently in an extremely poor voice. When they're doing trust scales, I think they're there somewhere strong in the last place. And those who are discussing today that these political parties need to be further suppressed and further prevented from doing so have a very easy task. I think it is important for all citizens not to throw all politicians and all political parties in the same basket because they are doing the worst service to democracy. Because of some bad cases, it is difficult to judge the entire political system as bad, and in some ways it means negative selection. Politics has received such a negative call that very few people today even decide on politics and more and more people stay at home and do not decide on their future. Normally, every four years we have the most important referendum called an election. I think it is necessary to go to such referendums and express our views. I wonder if we're not doing this, what's the alternative? If we're so disappointed about the current system, we stay home, we don't go to the election, then what's the other option? I agree with that Churchill saying that for once a better system than democracy, it is not. So that the street doesn't solve all the problems, it's very eloquently depicting the case of Egypt. Things get worse with every protest, every crack in the street. Let me get to the point. Democracy stops. However we turn things around, we cannot close our eyes, democracy and political parties are standing. Of course, it is our duty to make the financing and operation of political parties or to establish the conditions for as transparent a functioning as possible. I think it is also clear to all of us that it is also clear to us that quality co-workers who have political parties or advisors who have parliamentary groups that they also need additional or special resources to make it difficult for you to get quality co-workers just like that. Maybe a comparison. In Slovenia, we allocate some more than €2 million to political parties from the state budget. Just for example, in Croatia, only one party gets so much money that I am not talking to us about the case of neighbouring Austria. The dimensions of financing political parties in our neighbouring countries are completely different. The Austrian case shows that things can also be good, the Croatian case shows that it is not necessary if the parties are well-funded, that they are doing well. It is essential for all to have democracy, then this democracy must also be paid. This law, which is before us, changes the way political parties are financed. In this spirit, we can develop very different theories. On the one hand, you have MPs and political parties who will claim that this proposal, which is before us, means punishing larger parties, means decommissioning democracy and merely impeding democracy. However, you will most likely have Members in these same premises who will say that changing the way political parties finance can also be the basis for a better growth of democracy. But if we pour ourselves pure wine and if we are honest with each other, then we can say that the costs of political parties can be divided into at least three parts. The first part is probably the same for everyone, this is the fixed part, this is the part that is the same for large parliamentary parties and small ones, including out-of-parliamentary parties. Nova Slovenija was once in this position. These fixed costs represent costs for premises, telephones, paper and more. And these costs are the same for all parties, parliamentary and extraparliamentary. Then the second segment is the costs that only parliamentary parties have due to their parliamentary work. In a way, I would hope to say that they are the same for everyone – that in New Slovenia we have just as much work as in Positive Slovenia, that in New Slovenia we treat the same amount of laws as in Positive Slovenia, with the difference that we have many fewer people and many fewer advisers than Positive Slovenia. But the volume and quantity of work are the same. And if Slovenia and all of us together want to do good and quality work for smaller political parties, then these foundations need to be provided. And if I said the first and second parts are the same works, they're equally divided, the first part of all the customers, the second part of those parties that we're in Parliament, then the third part comes. This third part, and I also agree, depends on how much a party receives in the elections, i.e. on the election result. To get bigger customers a little bit more, a little less. If we follow these principles in further consideration of the law in order to assess honestly how and how the parties operate and what they need for their operation, then we will reach these three segments. And if we divide the money fairly between these three segments, then I am sure that we will create, above all, a good basis for the parties to act better than they do today. And if the customers work better and once we move up that tail a little bit, I think we will do a favor not only to ourselves, but also to the whole of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek is to be followed by Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! This law on customer financing is of course important. I believe that we do not have a good enough law, but I must say that I am not sure that after the adoption of this law something will be significantly different and better that there will be less political corruption. Maybe even more. It seems to me that this law was primarily designed as a masseuse for the people at a time when significantly larger stories, financial and corruption, are taking place in other areas and should be focused on them. This is probably some subconscious attempt by the minister in a desperate effort to get his client off the bottom of the customer ratings, as we have recently received some populist issues. It's a people's massage. Look, instead of focusing on what happened in our banks, we're dealing with this sort of thing. Now I see that suddenly there are a lot of economists, bankers, and now all of a sudden they know that the hole in our banks is going to be significantly bigger after EuroScreening. They didn't know until now. Mr Tynikar said yesterday that 11 billion money has been drained from the economy through banks in recent years. Now he's saying it. Mrs Selskova said somewhere that if the criteria were to be found in their Western European bank, the criteria would prove to be a disaster. Where has she been? She knows all the tycoons because she was already with them in Shinigo's government. Prohibition of donations by legal persons. I am aware that all donations are in some way problematic, because especially in Slovenia it is considered that no lunch is free to eat for free. But on the other hand, I must say that if we were all honest at this level, the donations to campaigns and political parties would now be the least problematic. Why? Why would it not be possible for a company to say that we will get more politicians like Jerovšek, who has not been corrupt, who is always the same, who can be trusted in the previous service, who fought against wild property and had to get out, the tycoons threw him out of the factory, we will finance him, and after his election more people, that we will have a good parliament and that we will have a better law and a transparent system. Why doesn't that work? Why don't you believe that would be possible? If the media were advertising for this, then that would be possible, then this transparency would be achieved. But the media isn't. For the last time, our debate here in the investigative committee, which is dedicated to corruption, the third programme in the abstracts sums up quite the opposite. It sums up the most who have fought that it is without connection to fight against the corruption of Mr Pavček and Rup. Even procedurally, it was summarized. The ones we fought, nothing. And it's wrong in society, because I know that it was ordered, what must be summed up, that it should not be shown there, how, say, Positive Slovenia essentially fought for nothing to be revealed. Today I listened very carefully to some of the discussions. And I was very careful if Mrs Masha Kociper consistently advocates a ban on donations. And, of course, then she said it wasn't exactly the right way to ban donations. Look, I'm saying politics still has the least issue with these donations. If the public other parties that have not received are as a cat before the mouse, they will pay attention to what this party will do for that donor. And it will be possible to prevent this from happening to the public. Extremely problematic in recent years, however, I believe that the real case of corruption is the donations that the mayor of Ljubljana, Mr Jankovic, has requested for all work. And we know that those huge donations also financed municipal campaigns for municipal elections and that those donations also resulted in an absolute majority, where democracy was completely undermined. And, of course, Masha Kociper had to be against it because otherwise she would have come against her bosses. In the municipality, I doubt that she has ever acted against such problematic donations, which were used in a transparent way. We've already heard about the Mercator, whose contracts the donors had to sign. It is the same in the city’s congregation. I can say the same, and I worked in a policy where I was eighteen years old, that I had only one case — in my first term, inappropriate offers. Then not anymore. They know it's not at my place in the former factory, but they wanted me, but I fought transparently against corruption and wild property. [[...]] Then they got rid of me because they said, "Jerovska can't be bought." In this first term, someone from the Triglav system came to my office. At the time, Nada Klemenčič was working to own the insurance company Triglav. Then there was a whole bunch of further-property attempts. And he convinced me that he was supposed to be free to change legislation and he finally said, "Well, Triglav knows how to reward it." He knows how to reward. Since it was in four eyes, it's my greatest weapon to say it here how it was done. Otherwise, everyone knows now. Because those who bribe are smelling in some way, I say it forever. Since then, nothing else has been offered me any discounts anywhere, even though I am a well - known person. No one comes to me to offer me anything to use. That's why I'm skeptical, whether it brings anything. I think it's gonna get a little worse. I'm here for transparency so everyone can tell who he's been financing, not limit it. As I have already said, if the right Members come to Parliament, they will be able to control whether it has been with fair intentions, for the preservation and development of democracy, this donation has been given or has been with hidden purposes, according to the Dash-Dam system. Once again, we have significantly bigger problems in banks. And here I do not agree with the minister that there are no more holy cows. Only bankers who were set up at the time of the righter government were touched by banks. And none of them have ever made it to the wallpaper, none of them! And it's been over a billion years! No, no, no, no, no! Where is the banker in the right process? Now this last one, because it is – I do not defend it, but it is known that if he is in the process, he throws some bad lights at those who put him on the previous government, which is still on the wallpaper and which is still to be muddy everywhere. There's a lot of sacred cows in banking, where the most money was stolen, where they're most easily bribed and bought people, from the judiciary to everywhere. We're just gonna have to see if there's any holy cows. That's gonna have to show up. Not yet in the tycoons – well, in the tycoons it may be partly, but in the bankers it hasn't been far enough. Yesterday, as I said, they now know, because the final European evaluation will come and there will be clean accounts, let's hope, day by day, and now all of a sudden, everyone knows how many billion has gone. But they were ministers before, and I don't know what, but they didn't know. And in all the control councils – Mr. Secretary, right, forever. But now he speaks quite differently. Mrs. Selšek knows. But before that, they didn't help the country to stop it. I even wrote on Twitter somewhere last night, the biggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u35	Mr Jerovšek [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u36	My greatest contribution would be to transparency both in politics and in the economy if the journalists were not under full pressure to write in the same way and to broadcast those broadcasts that go to the benefit of one option and to the detriment of another. If there were transparency, independence and professionalism, which depends not only on journalists but on capital, then we wouldn't have this robbery in banks because we would monitor each other. But so far they haven't. And there's a disaster! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, next is Borut Ambrožič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings for everyone, including the well-respected minister Dr. Virant and a coworker! I find that the law or amendment of the law, as it is now prepared, is suitable for further consideration and I support it. This is the fourth novel of the Political Parties Act, with the first three novels aimed primarily at regulating the operation of the parties, while this fourth novel is the first such species to attempt to enforce the self-limiting of the parties in operation. Here we can talk about how other institutions are corrupt, we can look for corruption in companies, in different commissions and so on, but this does nothing to help us solve problems in our institutions. So in institutions that we call political parties that are the basis of action in democracy and for which both the Greek 2007 report and our public opinion and the whole range of public opinion surveys find that they have very low confidence. So what we have to do, what we have to take care of, either with the law or with our work, is to change the public's attitude towards political parties. This is our responsibility, so it is also right to do this business with a type of novelty such as the one that is now ahead of us. There are 77 registered clients in our system. However, for the indiscretion of political parties and the disreputability of political action, people blame mainly those parties who operate in Parliament now or have worked in the past. We must therefore be aware that the responsibility for poor public confidence in political parties is primarily in the hands or because of those who work in Parliament or once worked in Parliament. This means, of course, that the public will pay much more attention to the results of the audit reports concerning these parties. However, I think it is right that the law closely monitors all 77 registered parties, as there will be an indirect pattern of corruption for all. If colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior listened attentively to the discussion in this debate, they probably also noted clues as to how this law could also be avoided. If not, I think it makes sense in the following cases to ensure that the law is amended so that these suggestions on possible avoidance of this law are corrected or prevented. For example, indirect customer financing has been exposed today. I think you should be careful about that. This is indirectly, through someone else, either through sports societies or through other civil society organizations. The speciality of this bill is also that it has some new legitimacy, which we are not usually accustomed to in law, in that it has already gone through a considerable public debate and that in this debate, those who will be most involved in the implementation of this law, either the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the Court of Auditors and, of course, the public, have been involved. In this sense, in the spirit of gaining and convincing the public with this novelty of law is already much to be done, but it is true that we will have to do much for ourselves. I would conclude by saying that all attempts to correct legislation that help to increase confidence in political parties must be welcomed. But what matters to me personally is that even if we arrange the operation of the parties in a modest way, as the minister says, it is important to ensure their smooth functioning. A smooth operation in a fair manner. So they won't look for different sources that are unfair so that they can act smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožič, after him Dr. Gorenak and then Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone! Allow me to begin by expressing my support for the presented novel, which is referred to in the arguments cited by my predecessor. I would like to say in person that in the words we face in dealing with topics such as corruption, integrity, morality, ethics and the like, there are so many distortions of these concepts, especially in the media area, that I find it difficult to believe that in the formal form of the operation of political parties in the future this law would correct the impression on the political functioning of the parties. Once in the history of political activity in Slovenia, one of the customers actually had a very nice slogan of the Party are people. Rather, we would not agree, so it is up to individuals in the party to act and act in ways outside the temple’s walls. As a matter of fact, I'm going to support the new marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u41	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I would continue around where Mrs Kociprova ended her performance when she spoke about the reputation of Members, and she talked about how she did not actually feel corrupt and all that the public and the media were telling us. While you said that this is true for two years, I must admit that I have been in responsible jobs for 35 years, where a person would always expect some possibilities of corruption, and I can very clearly say to the camera that this has never happened to me in these years. What was I gonna say? I wanted to say that there was a perception in the public that we all oppose and that we all know is not true. This is how we are all Members, how Parliament as a whole is corrupt, at every corner a thousand looks at us from the pocket and so on. That's the impression among people. But why is there such an impression among people? Because we don't do anything ourselves so it doesn't. And we're not ready to say, "No, that's not true!" But look, the problem we have is also in our behavior. Yesterday we solved those two FIHA members who were not really guilty, but that's what the KPK told us that we acted corruptly. The KPK has told us that we have made a corrupt decision, while the Constitution guarantees us freedom of decision. And what did we do yesterday? We've confirmed the KPK's decision. Then it's not weird! So we confirmed the decision that the MVK acted corruptly. Do you know what nonsense we've done? But if I go back to this marriage, and I say so, in more places today it was said, yes, Greece ordered it, Greece recommends it. Firstly, if Greece recommends this, it has not yet been said that we must bring this into our legal system. That's the first one. And second. Who's Greco? Where did Greece get information about corruption here in Slovenia with political parties? Where'd they get that information? Have they done any public research?Oh, my God! Did they find that out in an explicitly known scientific way? No, no, no. Let us simplify and say: this is what Drago Kos, who is their Vice-President, told them. Greece has accepted this assessment, the methodology of how they accept these assessments we know. And to a large extent this is a message from a man from Slovenia. And now we are happily meeting here, and we have a meeting of the National Assembly, and we are realizing what Mr Kos wanted, he exported to Greece and Greece ordered us. Bravo! Don't do anything stupid, I'll say, at every turn. And I didn't mean to say that you didn't have to change this law, and I didn't mean to say that marriage is bad for individual parts. I think it is right that it is changing, and it is right that we turn certain things into better things. Because, after all, this law is not exactly the most growing months or years. But still, there are some things you have to say about this. Klemenčič says that this law or that it is a breeding ground for political corruption. How did you get that grade? How did you get that grade?Oh, my God! Have you thought about and wondered where this assessment came from? On 30, 40, 20, 50 imprisoned Members of Parliament, accused of what is this based? [[...]] This is – and now I will probably come back to the analies in 2013 – the result of his bistro. He said that. But he didn't support it with anything. If I were to say, of the ninety Members, five accepted bribes, they are in prison and therefore claim to be corrupt. But look, none of this is true! And we firmly accept the claim that we are at the heart of political corruption. And that seems to me to be an issue. So if we admit it ourselves, we quote him as if the Dalai Lama were in this country, then this is something wrong. Last but not least, I don't know how many times we've asked ourselves how many countries the European Union has in place to prevent corruption. How many countries does he have? And in how many lands does he have the kind of authority he has with us? I've been trying so hard to find a country, I haven't found one. But if I don't sell what I've determined myself, I'm going to be trying to get more relevant data through the National Assembly Research Centre today. And I am afraid that we will find out, even after they have done their job, that there is no such case in Europe. I must say that at a scientific consultation a few months ago, a student who was from abroad said something like that, I will translate it, even though he spoke Croatian. We discussed the role of the courts and the role of the Commission in preventing corruption. And he said, "Excuse me, may I ask, which is the higher authority, court or commission?" So, who's taller, commission or court? "With us in Croatia, that is clear. With us, it's a court of law." They say it's a court of law. And then he showed one case, and he said that the professor, and the one who was in the process before the committee, showed two documents. In document A, the Anti-Corruption Commission, it said that this was corruption. Then, in the same case, he showed the judgment of the court, where it said nothing was to be done. But we KPK automatically believe that he is a salvation god, which of course there is not. As far as this funding is concerned, that's how it is. I'm having a little trouble with this 75 and 25. If we wanted to take a step towards the will of the people, the one in 1997, and if we wanted to take any step towards a majority electoral system or greater voter decision, then this would not be determined, because it clearly stimulates small political parties. But it's funny, Minister, I have to say it's a little funny. The biggest political side when you said that the big political parties agreed with it, we did not, so to speak, this is then Positive Slovenia It is also logical, because Positive Slovenia will be a small party after the elections, because we know that it will be. It is said that now you have simply prepared the ground to get a little more, after you are five, no more than twenty-six or seven, eight, what do I know how much. Then there's something else to say. The municipalities. Look, I'd be here in a position to make it clear that municipalities have a certain amount and that we don't leave it to the mayors, because then the mayors can do their own thing. The closer he gets, the more he will act, the more he will use these funds, or he will not use these funds. I think it'd be better if that were the case. I think it'd be better. It has also been said that since 2008, this law has been somehow airborne, or at the end of 2007, beginning in 2008. And Mr. Han said, "Who was already in power?" Yeah, you were in power, who else? In 2008 alone, it was us, and otherwise you were in power. Especially those three years where you even had to think of the Interior Minister. The Home Secretary could fix that, too. So you don't exactly point at us. I'm still sure about the punishment. The Chinese have said years ago that for economic crime, they will take the convicts across Beijing before they are hanged, and publicly show them. They also imposed very severe penalties. It didn't catch. I'm sure they won't be able to take heavy punishment if you call it that. I still believe that there is a question of ethics and morality. With no law, indeed with no law – since we all went through electoral campaigns, we all know about how electoral campaigns are going on, we know that the law cannot regulate it, absolutely impossible to regulate it. I just remember an entrepreneur I asked for a political party donation in 2008, and he said, "Look, I'll give you three salaries, not one, just not a customer. No, that's not because then I'm going to be painted somewhere on some list." You all know this is happening. You all know this is true. And you won't stop it with the law. Even if we tell entrepreneurs that they can't, I don't think I can stop it. I think that the law, as I should say, would be needed in order to continue with the fundamental changes. I didn't say that we have to be against him or against this attempt by the minister, but I think we have to think about a lot of things and not pretend. Above all, it is necessary to consider our own integrity, the integrity of Members. Because look if the situation goes as far as it goes and if the public opinion of Members as it is today – see, it is true for everyone, from the far left to us sitting here, then there will be only one way out for this country: for a Member to be nominated by those who set their hands there today when we go past them. They're gonna run because they're gonna get a job. But, you know, I think we need to raise our own integrity seriously. Not with determination, not with those who point to us with our finger, how corrupt we are. This is the KPK — in the first place, with such statements. Because, after all, I am sure that there is one mass of Members in Parliament who has not put one euro in the pocket of our lives in an illegal way. I'm sure of that, and I won't allow it to happen to you, either, that someone likes us with the growing of political corruption and so on. Let's think about it, and let's tell these people our truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kurnjek. After him, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members of Parliament! I'm going to try to show a little bit more plasticly why I actually think that the Law on Political Parties needs to be amended. I've got this chart right here. I could say it's like a middle school decorator. And I look, it says in the column of Slovenia and in the first column: 4.2. Great. Or not so great if I was used to getting A's in elementary school, so little less, but still great. Then I look a little bit lower where it says: Global Corruption Barometer or the world barometer of corruption. Oh, that's not a decorator! 4.2 is still a great grade. Great. I look up – a legend that says the essence: 1 – not at all corruption, which means no corruption; 5 – extreme corruption, which could be translated by translators into very corrupt, incredibly corrupt, extremely corrupt. And if I look at this number now, this number is 4.2. Where are we? Why is it necessary to change the law? In order for all of us and those who come after us to Parliament, this number will decrease and their reputation will grow. I think that this proposal, which is in the procedure or now in the first reading, brings this. And it's not about disciplining customers as we previously heard in one of the positions. That's not what this is about. In essence, it is a matter of achieving a transparent functioning of funding, as well as control over this funding and operation. But if anyone sees it as discipline, maybe he subconsciously admits that he's hiding something. Maybe. I don't know. There was also some talk that this change of law might bring positive things for smaller parties. Maybe. Why not? In fact, from my point of view, this is great, we live in a plural society, and I think that if we look outside this Parliament, people want new people, new faces and probably new parties. If this marriage helps, thank God it does. Since I am generally very rational in words, I could only say this in the end. With full responsibility, I say that if anyone is responsible for this result here, that is a bad result, it is certainly not the Civil Gazette, and even less is Branko Kurnjek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, please. And behind you is Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker! When we talk about the Law on Political Parties, there is probably a lot of attention on the part of our citizens and citizens. Of course, citizens and citizens want political parties to work effectively and transparently. In any case, even if I were not a party member, this would be a very important question for me. In any event, I support the issue that political parties are financed exclusively from state budget funds. Someone has already said before me that legal persons do not have a great deal of interest in financing political parties because they have their own foreshadow at the time. I have to say in our client that we don't have these problems. As we can see from the documentation, our client has very few donors, natural or legal persons. Some legal person, their representative would sooner be willing to give out his own pocket, only to not get this omen that he donated to a political party. You know, once they're in power left, once they're in power right so I don't name them by color. Second, perhaps, once in the future, there will be those who are a little bit more in the middle. Maybe that's the right thing to do. And it is very important in our society, in our country, that we must make up coalition governments, because I think that then the people who are sitting in these governments, and we who are sitting in the National Assembly, are thinking and negotiating. If there is no such agreement, then that means there is no result. However, if there were a majority government, believe me, there would not be so much compromise and perhaps good decisions in this country. Once in the future, it might be good that there is also a large coalition of two major political parties to replace what we fail to replace mainly because we talk too much in certain areas and oppose each other. If this were not the case, those changes where the majority will of Members is needed could also be accepted in the country and this cycle could run faster. I am in favour of having transparent financing for political parties, and I will also support this law on political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, it's your turn. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! First of all, I must say that I, in this regard, will not judge myself as a respected colleague of Branko Kurnjek, in this context, which we are dealing with in this amendment of the law. This should be done by citizens and citizens in what we say is a referendum of all referendums, that is to say in elections. First, maybe just a few numbers. Mr Jurš also recalled that he agreed that political parties were financed from the State budget. Surely the citizens and the citizens accompanying us understand that we are increasing these funds by means of this law. That's not true! We're shrinking. See, in the 2013 balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the coalition in July, I think there was a low €3.2 million planned for political parties. However, a good EUR 2.5 million is planned in the 2014 balance sheet. This is a reduction of around €0.7 million. To avoid now, I repeat, somehow thinking that we are actually cutting ourselves a big cake of money, and on the other hand, unfortunately we are finding that social transfers are falling, this is evident from the proposal for a rebalancing and budget 2015, and we are becoming a less social state than we were. On Wednesday evening, I had this privilege, I organised the time, and I was at one very good, important teaching hours for me, I listened to the famous Slovenian lawyer Dr. Mir Cerar, also the famous Mrs. Manco Kosher, where there was a speech that night in the establishment of the floor of Stanislav Škrabac about ethics. The title of the evening was Man standing and falling on ethics. I add, "Politician stands and falls on ethics." Our face in front of the Slovenian public, the face of Slovenian politics, Slovenian politics or politicians will not be corrected by any law. No European directive, even less regulation. We have to fix this ourselves. Even if we tell the citizens ourselves what we are, we will tell them through our actions, what we are and what the function of the National Assembly is, in fact. Allow me to quote Dr. Mir Cerar, who in his book Memory in Crisis, I recommend in reading, as follows: "When society is found in decadence, in a slow but persistent value gap, which appears mainly in the constant vote after the increase in wealth, material wealth and psychophysical enjoyment and in extreme softness and egoism, then there are various financial capital, employment, payroll and other similar injections just a step into a further, even greater crisis." That's what the car said three years ago. Where are we today? What about our humanity and our honor today, our heart - rearing and character - grinding, our spiritual growth and awareness - raising? Where are we today? We are aware that the true power of one country is not only political or economic but moral. This is the true power of one country: in morality, the moral power of the state. We all have to work on it, not just the 90 of us. All 2 million of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Möderndorfer, followed by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the debate itself, there were quite a few indications that we did not all hear each other well and understand each other and, above all, agreed to make such a change. Let me begin by saying that, although I have been repeatedly and again, but I am now slowly saying, in this national assembly, it is surprising that what we are talking about and negotiating in the preparation of certain laws, not least, we have had a consultation with the Minister before this law, before he came into the procedure, we have been talking with the opposition and with the concrete coalition, and today I am surprised by some such surprise, in fact, what such a law is actually looking for in such a context in the National Assembly. But, as I've already said, it doesn't surprise me anymore, so here's only so much in the defense that the minister didn't do anything here on his own, because he found out from someone again that it would be good to do it, or because he wanted to pick some political points. The fact is that this law, as you can see on this side, is actually one of the oldest. It was adopted in 1992 and, in fact, almost nothing has changed. It is also true that, in the previous mandate, this law has been discussed and political parties have also agreed that in this work, as we have before us today, it should be proposed that it should be amended to change precisely in this work. Energy was running out, the mandate ended early, so there was no discussion at all. It took us a year and a half to get to the beginning. And now we're here where we are. Of course, all that still follows in this law is much more than a proposal to change, but what is important to me – and if you heard me at the beginning of the introduction, in the presentation itself, is that I have pointed out that practically this law, which we are currently considering, is simply not without consideration and behaviour, what we are going to do at the next point. I agree with all the speakers who have, to date or to this point, discussed in the direction that they are not going and showing customers something to take, but that they also need to tell you where on the other hand you will replace it. Above all, let us ask ourselves why we are actually doing this if we are already doing this. There was a lot of talk about corruption itself. I must say that in this corruption I am extremely unhappy, because, I will say, in very different ways at different times speak differently. We will not eradicate any corruption by this law, far from it, I am not even making any doubts. However, we will lay or change certain foundations that have shown that they have survived and that this is no longer the case. That's the essential difference. And that is why I think it is right that we are discussing this, and I am sure that until the second debate we will also make clear what is still necessary and how and how this should be written down. One of the proposals I myself have discussed is that we can only decide on two things. One thing is that we will make very clear that if we want to have democratic procedures and, I will say, to come to Parliament every four years, once and for all, with one goal: to convince the electorate and the electorate that this programme, which I am defending, is the only right one, must also be provided with all the instruments and conditions that this can ever be achieved. It is true, however, that in the last ten years, even though in history politics has never been popular with a nation, one such or another, we have done the most for ourselves to be unpopular. These excuses about the media, how the media are from one and the other, and so on, look, I think this is boring. The fact is, with each of our performances, we do the most here. What is more important to me is, above all, how to ensure what my colleague Tonin has said, how to provide resources so that from some point of view political parties can act equally in a healthy political fight. So we come from the same material points. I fully agree with this, but of course it is always and everywhere, even in Europe, but we can do not yet know how much research, a very important political result that you achieve in the elections. And that's the only fair, merodial cut you can estimate how much money someone's got. The problem and discussion, which is increasingly emerging, is the interconnection of a political party with a national assembly, a parliamentary club, which is increasingly questionable. Last but not least, the media is increasingly wondering what a political party is and what a parliamentary club is. These are two things that really relate to each other. Because there is no political party to the Club of Members at all. And vice versa. Without a parliamentary club, there is no political position that we make in political parties. That is why this transposition, because we have a bad law because it is not clearly defined and because even acts around this law do not clearly define, all those who want to transparently review and supervise, last but not least, the public, how we actually act and operate with the public funds that we are given, of course, is a problem if we do not have these things more clearly defined and written in order to adhere to certain rules of the game. Let me finish. It's up to us to decide two things. One is, and this debate will show below – that we give up donations to legal persons and thus prevent any discussion of what is allowed and what is not allowed – simply, donations are not allowed – and reduce the range of manoeuvres that are owed to whom. On the other hand, it must be asked, because I must say that the first proposal proposed to raise the ceiling of donations by legal persons would also increase the possibility of someone being posted on the list, and I completely disagree with that because you have done nothing about it. In fact, we all know what that means. The moment someone donates, they don't want to expose themselves. And we didn't do anything. There won't be any donations. By this logic, I'm more willing to end them. But on the other hand, it is necessary to provide the sum of money that political parties urgently need if they want to perform and also drive all things within the framework of the law. I'll give you one very practical example. We all know that the political parties have been preparing for each election for four years. In this round, resources must be provided to ensure that we all have the same starting point. And these proposals are, and later I will also tell you how this can be arranged or regulated, and it is one of the essential differences where these funds can be provided. And then there's all the other opportunities. I support this law. I must say that I am sure that until the second reading we will complete it to such an extent that it will be practically clear to everyone that no one has kept a fig in his pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, behind her Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Today, much has already been said about this law in this Chamber, including in various respects, the financing of political parties has been highlighted, which is, of course, correct, even in my opinion, because it is, after all, public funds and it is important how these funds are dealt with. It is also particularly important because it is a political party whose members we are all Members of Parliament and it is a matter of direct concern to us. I understand the purpose of this law by seeking to address irregularities in the financing of political parties. It is therefore a self-restraint of political parties with the aim of preventing corruption in financing the parties. This law provides transparent, transparent and fair financing for political parties and, in my opinion, will certainly contribute to respect for morals, ethics and thus strengthen the reputation of political parties. I will therefore, of course, vote in favour of this law being suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u54	Dear Chairman! Given that there was essentially an agreement yesterday between all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, there is a possibility that today we should interrupt the meeting for an hour for one simple reason, because in this same building, the President of the Government would present the budget to the opposition. It is true that the SDS Group today announced at the press conference that it will not participate, which does not mean for the SLS Group and New Slovenia. I therefore propose that we allow everyone to continue working equally in the National Assembly, so that for at least an hour, as far as I am aware, the opposition can also be informed of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your proposal. Your proposal is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm not aware of any kind of arrangement either. Not even this morning at the College, if it's the right time. I also note that colleagues from Nova Slovenije and SLS are not here. It is not a matter of any party, your proposal simply does not comply with the rules of procedure. The reasons for the suspension of the sitting shall be established on a business basis and the one you state is not one of them. I understand. Keep it procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u56	Vice President of the National Assembly! We can always be in a position to negotiate here, but in the Rules of Procedure, the presidents can cancel the meeting at any time, and I have called on you as a Member and the leader of the largest positioning party to in fact, in accordance with the rules of procedure and powers you have, to suspend the meeting. Don't say it's not in the rules of procedure. But I think it's very reasonable, because I don't think there will be any opposition, not on the side of the coalition, not on the side of the opposition, to do so. If you need legitimacy for this act of yours, you can put it to a vote and we will vote. I find it extremely inappropriate to want to hide behind the rules of procedure, that this is not feasible. Indeed, from New Slovenia and from SLS have already asked me to submit this proposal to you because they are not there because they have already gone to this. But if it isn't, I don't have any problems, I'm already familiar with the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u57	Look, before we move forward with the procedural proposals, I think we must first proceed with Mr Möderndorfer's procedural proposal. I am not going to interrupt the meeting myself for a reason, because I think this should still be agreed on – at least this procedure, even in the College, so we had it this morning. However, I will take your proposal into account because of the exceptional circumstances that we can say that we are here today in the National Assembly, and I will put your proposal to the vote. Personally, I do not believe that it is entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure to put to the vote. However, I have decided to maintain some level and listen and hear what the Members have to say. We'll put this to a vote. Let's get this over with. We will first vote on the proposal. We vote on the proposal to end the meeting. On a procedural proposal, honourable Mr Han, there is no explanation for the vote. Apparently, there was a lot of confusion in the hall. Please check the functioning of your voting devices and repeat the vote on the proposal to suspend the meeting. We're voting. Obviously, there is not enough presence in the hall to vote on such a decision. I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes to ensure that we are present in the Chamber so that we can vote again. I'm adjourning the session until 1:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Please take your seats. Please check the voting devices. If there's another problem, please warn me in time. I don't see there's any problem. We are voting on whether or not to adjourn the meeting. We're voting. 42 Members are present. In view of the fact that we have not provided sufficient presence to vote on the decision or that the vote would be valid, can we calm down a little? [[...]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby grant one hour's leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u59	We're moving on to the session. There will be no fourth vote because it would be irrelevant, since the procedural proposal has been consumed and the meeting has actually been suspended for the desired or proposed time – i.e. by 14.16. Mr Tanko has a word now, a little over 1 minute is still at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u60	It's a beautiful hall for words. Here I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that those who have not been successful in the elections have been rewarded with this bill and get 2 and a half times that under the existing law, which means that this government proposal stimulates negative selection. I think that with solutions that go towards negative selection, we should clear this up once, whether in the area of customers, in the field of human resources policy or in any other area. The fact is that the successful parties must also have the conditions to work successfully because they also assume the greatest responsibility. However, parties who have not been successful or less successful in the elections receive relatively less. And here, in a voice or whatever it is that has been counted on the number of Members, this formula does not come out. Successful parties are being punished. I think that, in a country with such an approach, we should break up with such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. He wants the minister's final word. He doesn't want to. We've got some time left. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yes, it is. Sign up for the one you want to discuss. Seven other panellists have been reported. How are things with time? Each debater has 5 minutes. The first is Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I will somehow continue in the direction of the debates that have been going through this parliamentary part today. Above all, I would like to point out that we are on our way. I am taking today's debate, i.e. just customer financing and everything else as some way of this nation towards a real knowledge of democracy. If the basic postulate or the basic input of democracy is such an election, if the output of this democracy is so-called the outcome of the elections, then it is important that at least those who are fighting in the political field are somehow the same starting points. We did not have the same baselines when this country was born. The same initial options were not available to most customers because each totalitarian regime lived on five total monopolies. The more successful they were, the more the totalitarian regime docked and stood. Like Yugoslavia or the SRS. Slovenia in Yugoslavia had five totalitarian or five monopolistic cases. The first was the so-called political monopoly of one party, the second monopoly that we had, was the so-called cultural and educational monopoly, the third monopoly that we somehow created, was tried through the doctrine in the judicial system of criminal philosophy, which said that the state was the basis of everything and that human rights were the basis of all of this. Here we know a whole series of articles and we can also talk about a law that was not right. We can talk about the law of non-civilized nations. Then we have the next monopoly, which was the so-called economic monopoly through state-owned enterprises. A whole range of companies, from Telekom, Mercator, 10 years ago every normal citizen could buy nothing but products in Mercator, unless he went across the border. Today, we see what the situation is today for these companies that have had monopolistic positions. We didn't have any of them, people were buying incredibly expensive products, and in this way they were taking away some basic standard. Above all, in this sense, we are talking today about the first system to be abolished, the first monopoly, which is the so-called political monopoly. Look, there's one thing that matters in this monopoly -- some people laugh because they don't seem to understand -- which is important. It is important that all those who go to the elections are equally represented in the media that, we can call it, are also very transparently financed. And I see no reason why, after this novel that we are adopting today, the financing of legal persons should be prohibited. It is questionable to me whether these persons are state or parastatal. If I am an entrepreneur who earned my money on the market, if I think my colleague Matjaž Hana’s program is appropriate – why not donate some funds to him? All these cases are being reviewed by the Court of Auditors today, so I see no problems. If a party with programmes that are long-standing, where a particular direction of this party is specified, this programme is, of course, built on some value system of this party, if this party receives more support from year to year, I do not know why such political options are being castrated. If these political options are castrated literally in some media work, I do not know why these political options should also be in funding. If this case is transparent, if it is audited by the Court of Auditors, I do not see a problem here. But the problem is, of course, in this handicap, which I have told you many times that we are handicapped. Because of our own history, we do not know the foundations of democracy. And the foundation of democracy must be that all the options, all the people who are in here, have, I can say, exactly the same starting position. Those who better convince voters who are better off in this case should sit in Parliament with a majority. It's a pure foundation. And whoever doesn't understand it seems to me like we're talking. And I don't know why this brake is. Is this novel intended for you, Mr. Virant, your client who is currently losing some things to voters who do not know whether you are oriented to the left or right or the middle, up or down, or to whom is this novel intended? If it's meant for you, look, I can't support it. I support those who are better, who have the definition of what is, so that people know exactly what is behind this program, behind the colors of a party, that is something normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm calling again. I think that we all agree in this Chamber when we talk about Ipes, the Court of Auditors, transparency, the public, consistency, I think we all agree. But before we get there, that's funding, but obviously we've only got a little bit of a different perspective. I have already said in the position of the Group of Members that we have no problems with this control and transparency and all other matters. We believe that this must be the first principle to be addressed in this law. But with these proposals of articles in law, I seriously wonder who will even hope to work in political parties and who will even be able to cooperate with parliamentary groups or parties. I think it's already some fam, that politics has rotted, politicians have rotted, Members have rotted. Before that, I think one of the debates said that people have that feeling. I agree. This generalization is very annoying for me too. I think that those anomalies that are should be thrown out of the system, but not generalized and said that all political parties are corrupt and I do not know what they are. We do not have this problem in the SDS party, because we are probably the most heavily audited party if we give all the data at our disposal. Whether this is an election to the National Assembly, local elections or a referendum campaign. Earlier it was said, Minister, you said the same conditions for the operation of all parties. Yes, but some customers have existed for at least 20 years, perhaps some parties have existed on some foundations for more than 20 years and have a certain advantage. Nor did the SDS party come into existence in 1990 and immediately had 26 Members and 30,000 members. Gradually it was forming and fighting, just as now you are fighting younger and smaller parties. It is right to fight, but not to try to get through some law suddenly to the same starting point that we have those parties that we have had through our actions before. That I won't be too long. This law on political parties is simply a popular topic for the public. Politics has rotted. Intransparency must be punished. Minister, don't worry, in the SDS Group we're going to make a few amendments because we disagree in certain ways. We are also led by a European comparison, which is very different. And your idea of anyone being from the public has a non-donation ban. I think we should think in a different direction. Why not open it even more, of course, with what I said earlier, a very clear, consistent transparent operation of political parties, where it is clearly seen who has donated, and then we could probably demand less from the state budget to devote to political parties. Here you have made this circuit, that you have said, parliamentary groups will share money with political parties, the government will wash their hands, and they will say, "These Members are still talking nonsense, working without connection, and in the end they are sharing money." I, Minister, don't agree with this idea of yours. Considering that the results already show that the financing or donation of customers by natural persons and businesses is decreasing. I agree that state-owned companies have nothing to look for with political parties. Nor do I expect Luke Koper to donate to the SDS political party. If we want to do something, we need to make some fundamental democratic action for this country, not to think that political parties need to be given an even more negative appeal, thereby giving to all those who want anarchy in our democratic development some added value. Be very careful when you are probably preparing this funding at local level on the basis of today's debate. You probably know, as a former municipal councillor, that every municipality is a unique municipality and, sooner or later, the funding starts with the mayor and ends with the mayor. If the mayor does not like a strong position, he closes the tent and can appear wherever he wants, and he happily creates his monopoly or his totalitarian system within his congregation. Be very careful here. Greece's recommendations, as I said before, yes, about control, not about funding. Here you have made a minisec, and in the end the law will not be good if it is adopted in the form proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I personally very much welcome this novel of the law, which is now in first reading. I think it was already six years ago that in the mirror set up by the Greek institution, we saw our shortcomings in the system of action of political parties. But we didn't want to, probably not on purpose. Some of the customers were fine with being financed by having botts giving them something, then returning the bot and so on. However, I believe that this novel is one of the biggest anomalies in the operation of political parties. We know that it is not good when politics interferes with the economy, but when it comes to financing political parties and, last but not least, election campaigns, it is undeniable that there have been points of risk of corruption. Something a natural, legal person gave to a client, then this client had to somehow return, give it back, and that's that corrupt act. At the same time, all political parties have not been treated equally legally, as some have had more opportunities to conclude agreements and bids with companies and thus receive money to carry out their campaigns, elections and programmes. Money should not be a criterion for the success of a political party in elections. The political party should promote itself in the way of implementing its programme, in the fair work of individuals, members of a political party, and certainly not with money, as has been heard today. And I certainly do not believe that this law and today this novel of law, which we have in our first reading, is an anointing for the people. It's a serious matter! There is a return of respect for the political parties and the political workers we are working on in this area. Last but not least, it's about strengthening some ethics, the morality of all of us who are trapped in the political circle of work. It is important that the work of political parties, as well as the financing of electoral campaigns, is transparent. It is probably not enough transparency just yet; it is also important to mention this mechanism and to build this mechanism, which is the control over the full financing of political parties. I know that there are still some anomalies or concerns about individual articles in the first reading today, but I am sure that there will be enough time for all political parties and individuals to comment on these shortcomings and that we will come to a law on the financing of political parties, which will be good, which will somewhat begin to restore the confidence of citizens and citizens in our work, and a law that will exclude all these anomalies that have taken place so far. I won't mention them. These anomalies had so long tails that they reached even to the investigative commissions in Parliament itself, but today is not the time. Basically, the law on my part is absolutely appropriate and good at the right time. What time is it supposed to be better? Today or maybe just before the elections? And it's not a mass for me, it's a law that needs to be regulated. It is a pity that Greco found faults, recommended that we eliminate them, and years and years have passed, six years since then, and no government has taken this matter seriously. In this regard, let her also commend the Minister, the Ministry, for the success of this walnut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I must first conclude that this agreement, which was adopted in the summer at the National Assembly, was entirely born. There was a kind of agreement on what Mr Möderndorfer said, that is to say that the client and the sending group are also connected in terms of work and this. Today we are discussing everything else, except this. I think that this approach, which has passed the agreement, is problematic. He's not standing. Secondly, I must conclude here that the approach taken by the government is, in fact, typical in this coalition and this government. You're more unsuccessful, they're giving you more attention on all the criteria. So far, large parties or those who have been successful in the elections have received 90% of the funds from parliamentary parties, 10% from those who have failed. Now this funding ratio is substantially changing into that quota of failures. I must also point out that these parties, who have failed to come to Parliament and will now be participated at 25% of the available resources, have significantly less responsibility for their work in the mandate, do not have Members, so non-parliamentary parties cannot work effectively and so on. And to maintain the system, this national assembly or coalition for that latent, unsuccessful one will spend an enormous amount of money. Let us do this in the area of the economy, in the field of banks, finance those who will stand by for four years to wait for the next round. You do that and we'll see. But apparently that's actually the main topic. I think that customer financing should be arranged in some proportion to the results, in good proportion to the results. And this part was, I think, successfully regulated in the existing law. Now, a party with three members who have remained after the failure of the elections will be financially financed. It should also be said that all these non-parliamentary parties are under the substantially less vigilant eyes of any body, the Court of Auditors, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and anyone, including the public after all. We have a few cases where things are growing, and that's just because they're being financed. They only appear in the elections to benefit from this potential that we have given them, and there has been no success for a long time. I must also say that what is disabled in the parties is, in fact, possible in all other associations. We have some civil associations that are mainly funded from the budget and have access to everything. Unlimited access to the media. Whenever they make a celebration, they have a direct broadcast on TV. They are financed with money, not under audits and so on. But here we are doing some artificial problems to the political system and especially to the part that is responsible for the functioning of the country. It bothers me, in fact, that a minister who thinks of himself as a developer, as a catalyst for development and so on, appears here as a major complicator and an inhibitor with a proposal he made through the government. I don't know why we should interfere with customer funding either. Even from the sources now available, after all, such a way of financing is also developed in other European democracies, even in old democracies, where it is not given up, nowhere is it prevented. With us, that's the main problem. And I think we should open these things up. If we want the system to do well, so that we can get them to run for the best, not the worst, then we need to stimulate the best to come into this system and maintain, maintain, develop and so on. By blocking successful ones, we also successfully inhibit the development of democracy. As if they were taking action against successful companies. After all, they do. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which is reflected in the decline in economic growth, the increase in unemployment and so on. [[...]] Very similar, very analogous.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the free and re-referendum campaign. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that both marriages are basically twins, that they are inseparably linked to each other, that this is a single marriage package, there is no need for me to make some major introductions, because the main objectives and main purpose and philosophy of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act are the same as in the Political Parties Act. It's about bringing the law in line with Greek's recommendations. Not only because we make these hooks, but also because it has a substantive meaning because we are making the campaign more transparent because we are improving the control of the campaign because we are tightening the sanctions and giving more power to the Court of Auditors. So I'm just going to say a few major solutions. One is that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, there is a restriction on the publication of public opinion polls only on the day of the electoral silence, i.e. 24 hours before the elections; that, as in the Customers' Act, a ban on the financing of the electoral campaign by legal persons is enacted for exactly the same reasons that we discussed in the previous law. And the essence of the former and this law is precisely this: in greater transparency, in making it difficult to intertwine policies and economies, unfortunately not completely impossible by this law, but makes it difficult to eliminate corruption risks or reduce corruption risks. These are the key points of both laws. Not the way money is shared among political parties, it's purely secondary. The content of the report on the financing of the electoral campaign, which has so far been very vague and opaque, is changing. After the new election campaign organiser will have to show in the report any contribution, including indication of personal data, if the contribution exceeds the average gross monthly salary. The report will also have to contain all data on all types of expenditure and on loans, not just the total amount of funds collected and spent. The Court of Auditors is also given greater powers here. So far, it has not been possible to carry out a comprehensive audit of the financing of the electoral campaign, and it will now be possible, including a look at all the client's documentation and all those with whom the party has dealt. Certain new offences are identified and penalties are imposed for certain types of offences. The upper limit of the fine for the worst offense is increasing from the current 15,000 euros to 20,000 euros. In both marriages, I think there's one thing very important. These are laws that basically make all political parties lose something. In a financial sense, we're all losing something. Business supervision of the parties is tightening, regulation will be tighter. And in this country, one of the biggest problems is that we are always for change — until the moment that changes concern us. We are all in favour of improving and changing things until it comes to our interest. With these two laws, I think we are all proving together, the Government, the National Assembly, the political parties, that we are capable of breaking through this thought. And once we get through this thought in this country, we'll be better off.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u72	As I have already announced in recital 1 above, they are related and co-dependent, and I also expect a debate that has already taken place throughout the morning. Let me mention that in this second law governing the electoral campaign, this second aspect of which we have discussed is particularly important. If, unlike in the first law, we have spoken about what is limited to political parties, it is reasonable to bring in certain units of common interest within the electoral campaign through this law. Let me mention, say, just one thing that is important and unified for all political parties. It is that the State Election Commission, when leading the entire electoral process, is the one who sends all citizens not only the directory, but also informs the candidates who will go to the elections and who will not or which political parties will be in this game. It is important in this regard that in this context it can also send to all families a poster of some kind or a notice where all political parties can present themselves. It's not about this committee writing content, the other way around. Each political party will write it itself, but it is one of the main costs borne by political parties. This is what I said at point 1 when I said that the political party is actually preparing for the new elections every four years. Let's solve a lot of problems with that. Another problem I see, and I believe that we will be able to reach it further with some agreement, is that poster places in the country are very clearly prescribed. Today is really a big problem. We know that we have a variety of advertising agencies in urban areas that advertise it on the road and everywhere, and the problem is that the law says that it is possible to post it in a local way. We all know what that means — stick it where you want it or where you can. This simply does not hold up, because I think that this needs to be settled, and therefore I think that we can agree on such a matter further. Positive Slovenia will support the law, and I believe that we will also find final common solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u74	Madam President, thank you for your word. To be clear, we are talking about the amendment of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, although I had a feeling in the predecessor that we were talking about the bill on electoral law. That's it. This is very similar to the material we have already met in the previous law, only this time we are talking about regulating the election and referendum campaign for elections and referendums both at national and local level. The bill touches on funding and control in elections and referendums, but players are mostly the same, in the first place a political party. The reason for amending this bill is similar, in the first place the recommendations made by Greece and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which have been accompanied by some of the last elections in our country. Furthermore, it is very important that the 2011 Constitutional Court decision prohibiting the publication of public opinion polls seven days before the date of the vote, in relation to the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Act, found non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and ordered us, as legislator, to abolish the constitutionality found. We can debate whether we agree with the Constitutional Court's decision or not, but the fact is that it is what it is. From the point of view of the accompanying party, and above all of the voters in the election and referendum campaign, the SDS asks us whether the current media structure or nomenclature on the possibility of publishing polls up to 24 hours before the day of the vote is not more about creating and creating a public opinion than it is about reviewing this opinion. Public research manipulations are possible a week before the elections or the last day or every day in the last four years. Public research has an impact not only on the outcome of elections and referendums, but also on the financial implications, given that the organisers of the electoral campaign have the right to reimburse part of the costs of the state budget. The bill prohibits the organiser of an electoral campaign from obtaining contributions from any legal person, independent entrepreneur of an individual and individual acting independently. In this way, in the view of the applicants, the possibility of contributing to the organisation of the electoral campaign is prevented from gaining an undue advantage over those entities which did not give the electoral campaign organisers an elected party's contribution. The prohibition on the financing of electoral campaigns by all legal persons in the draft law is, in the view of the applicant, necessary and much more appropriate in terms of the principle of proportionality, since such a solution will safeguard the rule of law and, in addition, the prevention of corruption cannot be achieved in a different way. That's what the proposalr wrote in the introduction of the law, and that's why I took it. I want to prove that the Minister of the Interior, who is also the president of a small and young party, obviously does not yet know how things are on the ground. Obviously, he does not know that this law will trigger underfunding for electoral campaigns, where those with open accounts in Cyprus will have priority and, as I said earlier, have resources close to Forum 21. And this difference between transparency and transparency, which the Minister is pursuing, which is supposed to be pursued, and reality on the other hand, will be even greater. In the SDS, we oppose such solutions, which will in practice increase the impact of lobbying and corruption in elections. That is why we expect the minister and his team to reconsider what they are doing and what they want to achieve. Transparency and transparency of electoral campaigns – yes, but the bill's proposal will give rise to exactly untransparent action. There will be more and no less corruption. A good purpose of the law, pressed with completely wrong steps. As we advocate transparency, transparency and supervision of funding in the SDS, we will not oppose the proposal for a law at first reading, but you will only have time for thorough reflection until further consideration, and thus our support. It is true that the law is slightly softened by the fact that the allowed costs that an individual organiser of an election campaign can spend on the individual election campaign increase, which is also in line with Greece's recommendations. Since we are in favour of transparency, we do not have any other concerns about the law in the SDS, both with regard to the increased authority of the Court of Auditors to carry out audits of the reports of the organisers of the electoral campaign and with regard to the content of the reports on the financing of the electoral campaign to be submitted by the organiser to the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors. Nor do we have any problems with the supervision of the implementation of the law, both by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs and by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture and Media. As far as financing political parties and electoral campaigns are concerned, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation to the Member States on common rules for financing political parties and electoral campaigns in 2003. Under these rules and guidelines, the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns must be based on the following principles: a reasonable balance between public and private financing – unfortunately we are abolishing public funding – clear criteria for the allocation of state funds to political parties – we are transforming these relations into favours for smaller parties – and limiting the costs of political parties in connection with the electoral campaign – we are increasing them – and effective sanctions for political parties and candidates in the event of a breach of the rules – we are solving this simply by raising fines several times, which is not necessarily related to efficiency. The bill seeks to be presented in terms of transparent and consistent financing and effective control. However, we will remain in effective control by increasing the penalties in particular, moving from transparency to non-transparent funding, and not following the European guidelines to the consistency of the bill. Minister, until the second reading of the bill, think thoroughly, but not within your party, which is still young and inexperienced in this area, in the field of election and referendum campaigns, but with distinguished experts and practitioners. Minister, if I may conclude, I really want to know how many times you have taken care of the financial side of your client's candidacy or yourself, because we probably agree, the easiest way to discuss it is if we come from practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I hope that you will agree and agree on how you will finance political parties, and I hope that we will not have another campaign with the free system. I hope this legislation will help. In considering the amendment to the Political Parties Act, the position of the Group of Social Democrats was based on the 2007 report of Greece, and also on this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. It is a transparent financing of political parties' campaigns. The lawfulness of funding and the transparency of the electoral and referendum campaigns are two important principles followed by the draft law. The funds obtained and used for the electoral campaign will be placed under greater supervision by the competent institutions in order to ensure greater transparency. The proposed amendment also eliminates inconsistencies with the Constitution. That was already said. In 2011, the Constitutional Court ruled that the 7-day ban on the publication of public opinion polls before the day of the vote was an excessive restriction that unduly interfered with the freedom of the media. In this proposal, as in the previous proposal of the Law on Political Parties, it follows the same objectives. It shall be prohibited to obtain funds from any legal person, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals acting independently. The campaign organiser must indicate the funds obtained in contravention of the legal provisions for humanitarian purposes, and this must also be indicated in the campaign financing report. The eligible costs that the campaign organiser can spend on individual elections are increasing. The proposal specifically states that the amount of these is in line with the recommendations of Greece and the amount of the partial reimbursement of costs for organisers and the financing of the electoral campaign remains unchanged. In order to eliminate as many corruption risks as possible, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe have also been taken into account in the preparation of the proposal. It cannot be overlooked, however, that the resources for the operation of political parties are diminishing, both for the activities of the party and for the preparation of such or other elections and referendum campaigns. This also applies to other campaign organisers, especially those who talk about referendums. Once rich electoral campaigns are considered to be a silent rule of multiple investment in the campaign, more opportunities to win. Such rich campaigns were being prepared by advertising agencies. They are moving away from a new more innovative approach in the run-up to the 2008 national elections when we were still facing the upcoming crisis. To date, we had, in addition to the 2008 regular state elections, regular elections to the European Parliament in 2009, regular local elections in 2010, early State elections in 2011, regular presidential elections, and a flood of referendums. It is impossible to expect that, with all these elections and the regular functioning of the political party, they can survive at all. Thus, the parties are increasingly forced to look for more modern, innovative approaches to addressing potential voters and voters, which the economic and financial crisis has certainly contributed, as well as the intensive development of information technology. Electronic media and social networks increasingly replace large and expensive jumbo posters and other more expensive forms of advertising. Unfortunately, this trend must also be followed by legislation. Let me reiterate once again that the proposal did not come due to the desire of politics, but is the result of numerous and increasing warnings following the necessary legislative reform, which governs the financing of political parties and the election and referendum campaigns. These warnings can no longer be ignored. We believe that this bill is also suitable for further consideration and we will support the proposed decision. For a more detailed discussion of individual articles, there will be enough time today, in second reading, at the home work body and again at the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Employees from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! As has been said many times today, the amendment of the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign is part of a package of legislative changes aimed at ensuring more transparent operations of political parties and electoral campaigns. The draft law removes the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the work relating to the prohibition of the publication of public opinion polls seven days before the vote. It also takes into account the shortcomings of the applicable law found in practice, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, Greece and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We have an old and bad marriage that needs a novelty. Therefore, at the outset, I would like to say that the Group of Members believes that the law is suitable for further consideration and that it will also support the amendment further. I have already spoken in my position on the amendment to the Law on Political Parties about the situation and the reasons for the need for immediate legal regulation of the conduct of political parties and the related electoral and referendum campaigns. The financing of the electoral and referendum campaigns is very important, as it can have a decisive impact on the outcome of the elections itself. We must no longer close our eyes and leave this hot bone to the next reference. All governments have done little to solve this problem so far. Some attempts have been made, but they have not been successfully completed. I wish or hope that this time we can only succeed. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that the proposed solutions, or the law itself, will not save anything. Politicians need to change their behavior so far. The problem of financing political parties and electoral campaigns is not limited to the financial remittances, remittances of state-owned enterprises, remittances that we all see and can always be problematic, painful, both for the payer and the recipient. The real problem is in the covert, hard to prove policy support without invisible but useful client donations through the background uncles. No marriage proposal can solve this. It is a long process, a challenging task, whose starting point is honesty and justice within us. In our search for material goods, as a society, we have forgotten that every human being is a value. The way to a better, more just society is the only way to achieve it is by respecting one another and maintaining human dignity. We must also show this to the people in our debates and in our work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will next present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns will allow for greater transparency in the financing of electoral and referendum campaigns and more effective supervision of compliance with the provisions of the law. The proposal seeks to ensure greater transparency in the financing of electoral and referendum campaigns, public access to information from electoral campaign funding reports, more effective monitoring of compliance with the provisions of the law and the establishment of sanctions that will be proportionate and at the same time effectively prevent violations of the law. According to the applicant’s assessment, the novelty will allow for more effective supervision, as the competent authorities will have the appropriate instruments for effective control. The amendment will address the shortcomings of the current law that have been identified in the implementation of the elections in practice in recent years, while taking into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Anti-Corruption Group of the Council of Europe, Greece and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, OSCE. In addition to the law, it removes non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its work relating to the prohibition of the publication of public opinion surveys seven days before the date of the vote. Thus, the new ban on the publication of public opinion surveys and surveys should apply only 24 hours before the date of the vote. The proposer with the novel funding of the electoral campaign is fully regulated in this law and no longer refers to the law governing political parties, as is the case with the law in force. This determines the types of contributions for the electoral campaign and the upper limit of their level, and the total amount of contributions shall not exceed 10 average gross monthly salaries per employee in the Republic of Slovenia, according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the previous year, but shall not apply to contributions made to the electoral campaign by the political party if it is the organiser of the electoral campaign. Money contributions from individual natural persons in cash are allowed for each electoral campaign up to a maximum of EUR 50 and higher contributions must be paid through banks, savings offices or other legal entities that provide these payment services in accordance with the rules governing payment services. Also in this novel, the ban on financing the campaign extends to all legal persons. The exception is the financing of a referendum campaign by non-profit legal persons. The contributions obtained by the organiser of the electoral campaign in contravention of this law shall be made no later than 30 days from the date of receipt for humanitarian purposes. This novel also amends the content of the report on the financing of the electoral campaign. It will require the organiser of the electoral campaign to provide information on all individual contributions, expenditure and loans and the total amount of funds selected and used. The organizer of the electoral campaign will, however, have to show in the report any contribution received from donors, including the indication of personal data, if the contribution exceeds the average gross salary per employee in the Republic of Slovenia. The novelty increases the allowed costs that individual campaign organisers can use to campaign for individual elections and does not change the amount of the partial reimbursement of the costs for organising and financing the electoral campaign. The Court of Auditors shall also be given greater powers in this proposal to carry out audits of the reports of the electoral campaign organisers, which may require, in carrying out the audit of the reports on the financing of the electoral campaign, the submission of documents, the provision of clarifications and the inspection of business books and records, not only from the organizers of the electoral campaign, the state authorities, the local community bodies, the Bank of Slovenia and the business banks in which the organisers have opened special transaction accounts, but also from service providers and sellers who have performed services or supplied goods to electoral campaign organisers. The amendment lays down certain new offences which are not covered by the applicable law and imposes penalties for certain types of offences. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support and vote in favour of the proposal for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the electoral and referendum campaign financing law is to ensure transparency in the financing of electoral and referendum campaigns. It is precisely the rules on the financing of the electoral campaign that are important to ensure equal representation of candidates, which has a decisive impact on the outcome of the elections itself. The existing legislation already ensures a certain degree of transparency, while some shortcomings in the law have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law in the electoral and referendum campaigns so far. We were also reminded by the Group of States to fight corruption in Greece in its recommendations. The amendment of the law also eliminates the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, as well as certain recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. Let me begin by saying that the Members of the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment of the law at this stage, as most of the proposed solutions, in our view, are quite good, and pursue the objectives of greater equality, transparency and legality of the electoral campaign. Amendments and additions to the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act prohibit the acquisition of donations and contributions for the financing of the campaign by legal persons, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals engaged in independent activities. In this way, the possibility is prevented that some candidates on this basis will gain an unjustified advantage over those candidates who have not received such contributions from donors. We were also explicitly reminded of such a legislative solution by Greece. The next solution brought about by the amendment of this law is to limit contributions to the financing of the electoral campaign. It is limited to 10 times the average gross monthly salary per employee in the Republic of Slovenia for the previous year. All contributions must be paid through banks, savings banks or other legal entities providing banking services. It is the responsibility of the organiser to draw up a detailed report on the financing of the electoral campaign, which is required to submit to the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors. The content of the report shall also be made public. The Court of Auditors shall obtain greater powers in relation to the audit of the report, in particular obtaining data and documentation from banks, public authorities, service providers and suppliers of goods, and in the event of suspected irregularities, the possibility of other persons obtaining data. This ensures greater transparency and effective control over the financing of the electoral campaign. As has already been said, the Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of this law at first reading. We are also pleased that the Court of Auditors has reviewed our reports on the organisation of electoral campaigns since 2008. In this last five-year period, Nova Slovenija has not received the slightest reservation regarding the financing of the electoral campaign. In other words, all reports of the Court of Auditors for New Slovenia were positive. We look forward to this, and we expect it to continue. With regard to the further processing of this law, let me say that we are going forward with the introduction of an amendment to Article 5 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. We will propose deleting the clause on the obligation to label posters with order numbers. In our view, this solution is pointless and unnecessary, and in particular the electoral or referendum campaign itself is not feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Several Members and Members have resigned from the debate, so we have a somewhat short list. That is why Mrs Sonja Ramšak, behind her Mr Vogrin, will begin the debate first and then prepare a mag behind him. Majda Potter. Mrs. Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much again for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr Trnovšek, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry some people gave up. If I knew, maybe I would, but I still think it's right to talk about some things. I will not touch on the content I have already mentioned at point 1, on transparent financing of political parties and on control, because this also applies to this point by content. In doing so, would you point out that when we talk about transparency and transparency — have we really done so with these amendments to the law? It is true that Greece's recommendations and that we ensure that all campaigning is in line with the law, the Constitution and the recommendations, but here I have some dilemmas. In his position of the Group of Social Democrats, colleague Han stated that the campaigns were increasingly sophisticated, more modern and so on. If I touch on the last campaign of the presidential candidates, and if I specifically stop at the campaign of the current President of the Republic of Mr Pahor, who, after all, had a very popular campaign for voters and voters, there are some questions here. Who and how did his share of this campaign evaluate when we say that he worked in certain companies or in public companies? When we say he pretended to be a garbage man, it's a public utilities company, public utilities and so on. Is this accounted for and valued? On what grounds? Is this covered by legislation or is it not? When we talk about the part of his campaign, when he asphalted roads in Koroška – how is this evaluated in the presidential candidate's campaign? Does this include this law or not? There are still many such and similar cases. I also do not know whether we really guarantee transparency in all areas. Let's say, in case someone gives something to someone, let's say a promotional material. I don't need to order promotional material from a company. My friend, my acquaintance, a relative, or anyone can give me the promotional material. How are we going to evaluate these things? You can put them in the report, but this is not about the fact that it is a monetary contribution, but whether it involves a contract concluded between that person and the candidate himself or those in charge or responsible for a campaign by an individual or a party or a list of candidates. These are the dilemmas that I would like the government representatives to answer, perhaps the minister himself or his associate. If we are talking about transparency and if we are to standard everything with the law, we should also have an answer to such dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next one's gonna be talking about mag. Majda Potrate, prepare Mr Joseph Horvat, followed by Mr Joseph Jerovšek. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It is worth noting that the Political Parties Act and the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act are linked, as when I quoted Greece's recommendations in the previous paragraph, the two laws were also linked in the recommendations. We could also attract this in everything that Greece wrote on his visit in 2012 concerning Members, which concerns both the electoral campaign and the functioning of Members. However, as it is necessary for Members to know, and political parties, in particular parliamentary parties, are building on the continuity of established political names, so that these Members can also direct their work in such a way, particularly in the last year of the mandate, that this can be considered as part of an electoral campaign. We could add hidden propaganda messages to this. I have in mind, for example, a famous Slovenian week, which we are obliged to read because we have regular material attached to the references to various emergency meetings, always covered by it. As we follow this week's publication, we see that all the topics that are being introduced later in the election campaign are being launched. Such things will never be helped, and such things are not included in the costs of an election or referendum campaign. But I don't want to be so negative about these things. I would like to draw attention to another fact that I know from the preparation of legislation for the largest cultural public institution in Slovenia, RTV. These are provisions on the referendum and electoral campaign and on the time that is most interesting for this campaign because it has to be accessible to all and is not payable. There is no way to avoid eternal debates on which parties are in favour. The timing for public media performances is different for parliamentary parties and for non-parliamentary parties. Whether this will also be the subject of the following amendments to the legislation, I do not know, but I do know that one of the non-parliamentary parties considered this to be the main flaw in the referendum of the rejected law, even though this other law better regulated the issue of non-parliamentary parties' appearances in the electoral campaign. If we go from a negative point of view to judgment, it is never possible to find a good enough legal provision to prevent abuse. This is another fact that I am also reminding – that the provisions relating to the parties must undoubtedly also be linked to the provisions relating to the individual candidate. Here I would refer again to the recommendation made by Greece, which leads us to draw up an ethical code, because Greece notes that we have a relatively well-ordered legislation for officials, politicians and other beloved officials, so that the internalisation of this legislation, the awareness of the restrictions placed on political officials, is slightly worse. Here begins the space of my reflection or doubt. If someone does not comply with the legal provisions for which sanctions are imposed, how can it be expected that his inner compass will be so sensitive that it will deter him from unacceptable conduct? I'm sure there's still a lot of open questions. In particular, the experience of the various referendums could review how individual groups acted when they challenged or exercised the constitutional right to request a referendum. Once again, in all these definitions, however, I see an attempt to improve the situation, raise standards. Whether this will actually work is an open question because I see the concerns of some, particularly in this direction, that they reject changes in legislation with obvious results, who will benefit more from the amended legislation. It seems symptomatic to me that the debate on elections, political parties and the campaign is being turned into a debate on an electoral system that needs to be amended by the Constitution. We have a proportional electoral system in the constitution written down. What I firmly believe is that changing the electoral system in itself will not in itself bring ethical, fair, transparent, and such positive adjectives, conduct. Because if we think everything else is not enough, then there is no need to change the electoral system. If the majority system does not lead to a more stable political situation, it is possible to monitor Parliament every day when we are almost halved or slightly different. By promising to have a consensus here — a change of political culture, not laws and constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next, to prepare Mr Franz Jurša, followed by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much. It is true that we have a twin marriage in relation to the previous marriage. However, in this law, it seems to me that it is primarily an important article 3 that emerged from the decision of the Constitutional Court on the length of the ban on the publication of public opinion research. I think it is very good that the Constitutional Court has found that this is unusual for us for a long time, that it is not normal and all these reasons, because we were very different here from other countries. Recently, last week, we were monitoring the German elections. There is no voter silence nor these bureaucratic obstacles or reservations. This week's ban on publishing was primarily a room for manipulation. Every week before the elections, a disastrously low political culture emerged, particularly among public opinion makers. We remember the time before the 2004 elections. Although public opinion researchers have already seen the victory of the Slovenian Democratic Party, public opinion polls have frigated that it still has a bearing on the success of other parties. I hope that, as soon as it is possible to publish another day before the vote, public opinion pollers will still be afraid of their reputation for being willing to frustrate public opinion results. In the last week, they could then apologize that the elective body had changed so dramatically, and I do not know what had affected the electoral body to change its mind. In this way they somehow saved their honour because most are such that they are very ideologically connected to the option, which is most of the time in power, to the left option in this country. That there was a lot going on in these public opinion research, I found out this year, on 30 July, when the Del Stick survey took place and I participated in this study. Apparently, a student was asking me questions, and then that top twenty popularity of politicians. I was answering that. Then suggest two more policies to go to the next week's ranking. I said, "Yes, but you didn't ask me about everyone who was on the page last week." For Commissioner Potočnik, I was not asked for an evaluation, absolutely not. Apparently, it's listed once in a different place, once in a row, because it's a waste of time, a phone impulse for him to ask people. That's amazing! And another name I forgot because I remember who's on those charts. I said that to that student, and she said, "That's what they gave me." Logically, she asked what they gave her. This Commissioner's position is always a little more questionable in the face of the fact that respondents have stumbled upon the person who has it in his head and is monitoring it. It says here what the holder of the public opinion research must publish — this is already being ensured. For, in fact, it was there on July 30 – it was announced that two days later that survey was carried out. But it was all 14 days before the announcement, which I thought was extremely unprofessional because 14 days of age are publishing results. The purpose of public research is to see up - to - date indicators of the political event that affected it. Until now, I've always thought, I've been misinterpreted: oh, now this party, for example, has grown by 5% and it's affected it. If they work 14 days earlier, then we have the wrong idea, which political event affected this survey. Other parts of this law do not substantially change, do not improve. Here this is repeated about the prohibition of financing by legal persons. I have already given my opinion on the previous law, in the previous debate, so I agree with my predecessor. The main thing is that political culture will change, but we need to achieve political literacy earlier in order to improve the political literacy of our people. But here leftist governments are systematically working to despise politics and parliament, and then within this House they choose: this one deserves it, and he is a fool. They select, choose, favor the left and so on in various television and broadcast summaries. In this way our people cannot become politically literate because we do not have newspapers to support the government opposition. Let's say we have three government newspapers now. If the opposition ruled tomorrow, we'd have three anti-government newspapers, logs. In this way, we will not achieve political culture in our country, and the left should be aware that this has led to such a financial disaster in this country, because there was no control because in the final form these editors are under pressure from owners, whom we know they are, under the pressure of political February, and even through the FDV they are educated and indoctrinated to the end, even though they have nothing. But it is their religion that the opposition, that the young parties are not right in this country. This is how we came into this catastrophic position in this country. We wouldn't have this robbery in the banks if we had a left and right side to monitor each other in the media. This would have come to the public sooner than now, the Secretary knows that it is 11 billion holes, and Mrs Selšek knows that the disastrous results of the European check of the bank hole will be. They didn't know before, they never said before, but now, just before the European results were published, everyone knows. They're known to have been knowingly hiding. Many media have assisted them in this, and on this basis also public research is in favour of those who should be punished. Having such disastrous results from the government – in a normal country, we would lose total support. For example, no government party would make progress, all would go to ruin, as in Greece happened to a government coalition that was before the troika there in power. However, with us manipulations can be achieved that those who directly take money from people's pockets, such as Factor Bank and Probank and their owners, are mostly Forum 21 members, still popular. People are grateful for taking their money, their blood money from their pocket. This is a political culture that we must achieve, first of all with political literacy, and on the basis of this, people will form a political culture themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We're going pretty fast. I can see that there is no particular interest, even though I personally think both marriages are important. All these provisions in the law that strengthen control, which increase control, which make more transparency – it is not worth talking about, because at least as far as I am concerned, they have some kind of green light, because everything that increases control, I think it's okay. At least for the opposition, the publication of the poll is only 24 hours ago a large court sword, but I know that this is said by the Constitutional Court and that we cannot pass because in our public information system, however the grumble on the other hand is present when we talk about the media and their objectivity on this page, there is a de facto fact – this is clear – that the result can be very clear. On Friday before the elections, on Friday before the referendum, there are some unilateral articles or results that may affect the outcome of the referendum. This is a de facto fact, but I know that the Minister was unable to go through it because the Constitutional Court said so. This prohibition of funding by legal persons is somehow in the air. Greece did not say anything – although I am very critical of Greece – about the need to stop it, it does not say anywhere, but that it is necessary to do it more transparently. My criticism of Greco – you have not heard it before, at least some, so I will repeat it. We're talking about Greco again. Who's Greco?Oh, my God! The institution whose Vice-President is Slovenian Drago Kos, ultra leftist, lawbreaker, and I don't know what else, since 2000 – I'm talking about Ranc. He's pushing opinions. That's where these opinions come from. Don't say Greco, let's tell the Slovenians: Drago Kos. Let's put it that way. This Greco really bothers me. Greece is not a god, and he has given us recommendations and no instructions for implementation. He did not issue any implementing instructions. He made recommendations, not instructions. That'd be good if we could tell the difference. Once again, whatever the Commission is saying to prevent corruption, okay, but I still believe that as far as this Commission is concerned, it is not now for me to report on any report of 8 January of this year – this is totally unrelated because I had the same opinion in 2007 – that is what we planned at the time. As a matter of fact, the current minister planned this, but without his reading it to him — I think he was right. The Commission needs to be suspended, given the powers of preventive nature, property and property control, transferred to the Court of Auditors and the prosecution is regulated by the police, the prosecution, the judiciary. However, the Commission has a preventive purpose, not to teach us what corruption is, which is not a crime. They say: You have acted corruptly, and my neighbor sees when some reason for the house will arise because I have received a few euros. That's what he thinks. That probably applies to all of you. Not to believe everything. Mrs. Potts is having trouble with a week. Hudiman says he has 4 problems in one month, and I have one 10 problems in one day, given that my journals cause me the same problems as her one week. There's a lot of disproportionateity in that. And there's one more thing. You've talked a lot about legitimacy, both in relation to the previous law and the law. You know, it's a relative story. It is such a relative thing, and those large and small parties and so on – these are very relative things. Let me explain on one occasion. At the 2008 elections – there you can see – Mr Zalar received about 300 votes, if I am not mistaken. I'm not quite sure about him, but I think that's what happened. Mrs. Kresal won 901 votes. It's a legitimacy now. I got 4996 votes, Mr Jerovšek 5400. The rest of you got, I don't know. I know Mr. Pahor got close to 8,000. I know that Mr Janša also got about that much, here somewhere. Where's the legitimacy now? Then I am in the opposition, and Jerovšek is also one, but Mr Zalar and Mrs Kresal decide. You see, it's a legitimacy. I didn't say it was illegal, but that's the system we have. Here comes the question of some righteousness if you want, but absolute righteousness is nowhere and probably never will be. We can draw some kind of rapprochement to some kind of justice through this law that we are now considering, not some absolute justice in this area. It really shows that we should consider this funding, even though, given that we have changed the constitution also in the field of referendum, we all know that there will be fewer of them, and I think this law may be a little less important than the previous one. By focusing more on the previous law than on the one that is important – I stress – but less on the fact that we all know that the referendums will be significantly smaller than they were before. However, there will be as many electoral campaigns as there have been now, and this law also does not show a clear disregard for them. It really shows that we should think about this funding. I am sure that if we completely stop funding from legal persons – I do not know if we will achieve this. The Head of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia speaks of the need to find other sources. O.K., find other sources — okay, that's possible. You must have been thinking of an increase by the state. Then there will be no other sources. But we already have a problem today, like I said before. When you come to someone and tell them if he'd be willing to co-finance, he'll say yes in principle, but on condition that I'm not written anywhere. We're hiding, aren't we? That's what we've all been through. Why? Because he's afraid to expose himself because he's in trouble. But he has problems — why? Because we're dirty politicians. It's a general perception. One and the other. But we are to blame ourselves for not taking care of our reputation if you want, and do not take care of ourselves to stand up where someone unjustifiably offends us or anything like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, followed by Mr Jože Tanko and then by Roberto Battelli. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. There's a lot of talk today about corruption. We are once again amending the law on the basis of a recommendation and agreement between Minister and Mr Klemenčič from the anti-corruption commission, which was, to remind you, the Secretary of State to Minister Kresal, who really had to step down because of corruption in the famous rental of the building for the NPU. Although Mr Klemenčič was very quickly eliminated and left for a new function, it would be difficult for him to convince me that he did not know about things and that he had nothing to do with them. He is now the chief guardian and chief assessor of corruption in this country. For my taste, the commission is also due to the media – some of you have already talked about the media today – having a number of important functions, as it would have done according to the law on everything it does. This moment in the country is the only thing that judges and condemns, even though we all know that it has no such powers. The Law on Prevention or Prevention and Integrity is before the Constitutional Court, and we will have to wait for the Constitutional Court to pronounce on it. The opinions expressed by the Commission also raise the issue or record that there is a risk of corruption. That's a long way from corruption. If Mr Klemenčič estimates and suspects that there is some corruption, he must report it to the authorities that are in favour of this country. I wouldn’t repeat the story two days ago when I told you what would happen if someone thought it was a crime, or if there were suspicions — that’s what they had to report, and that's how things were supposed to go. Rather than deal with it, it is easier to brand all policies in order for the corrupt. We all play the law, cheat at every turn — that's what it sounds like — so we have to change some laws on our noses in order to get better control, and in the end it turns out to be much worse. Maybe just a sentence, because I very much agree with what my colleague Jerovšek said. We have an unbalanced media space, so some things can't get to people. We have a lot of problems with the truth or we shouldn't have them if we had at least about a balanced space if there was a right log, not just a left. Democracy and Reporter — these are the weeks — are always hustling, and perhaps the Family. Everything else we know how it is directed, and therefore we have great problems because social groups, options, interests that do not have the same opportunities or conditions to express their opinions so that they can be published. But this is the basis of democracy. You'll probably have to agree. With regard to electoral and referendum legislation, we have quite a few bad solutions. A voter silence has already been mentioned. A completely stupid solution that the last day should not do anything, while hanging crying, jumbo crying, anything possible, and then people report someone because that day he got a tower with one name and he's dealing with it half the state administration. They're probably getting paid a lot better this weekend because it's a weekend. It's totally stupid. They're answering the numbers, and if the minister wants to do something smart, he should have put an end to it because it doesn't make any sense. Prohibition of the publication of public opinion research. That's a good decision. Let me rephrase my case. When I was even called for one survey and asked about the elections for the European Parliament, it happened to me in the same way as my colleague Jerovšk, that they listed all the candidates, the list holders, except for Dr Milan Zver. When I told the polls that I would vote for Dr. Milan Beast, she said she didn't have him on the list. I said, "Look at the published lists, who's running for office." If that's how we do polls, then it's no wonder that many times they cut through, and then we wonder what was wrong and then some people spill their ashes, that the results were like that, but the result in the elections is different. It's clear that he's trying to influence the result. Two more words about funding. In 2003, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation to the Member States on common rules for financing political parties. Under these rules and guidelines, the financing of political parties and campaigns must be based on the following principles: a reasonable balance between public and private financing. We are just shutting it down by not knowing what the problem is if a company or a company that considers our customer's work as good is giving us the means to continue to represent it well. What's the problem? People can give their money and invest in what they want. It's a democracy. What else do they want us to do? Clear criteria for allocating state resources to political parties. We will now finance small political parties which, by the way, are independent. Yesterday was the centre of the festival LUPA, a festival of NGOs, and there was a political party – you will not believe – TRS. Limiting the costs of political parties in relation to the electoral campaign – we are increasing this. We're rediscovering America, we're doing things that are long gone elsewhere. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The time of the SDS is up for now. The next panellist is Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. It is true that these two laws, the law on financing the parties and the campaign, are in some ways closely and meaningfully linked, as the minister rightly stated. I wanted to say something about the problems that the specificity of the political representation of the national communities in Parliament implies. These problems are, for example, that we are not equal to other colleagues elected on the basis of party affiliation. We also have an individual candidate for Parliament in our system, but this is virtually impossible to achieve unless someone who is interested is in such a special position that he is extremely well known and should also run in all the constituencies or in a certain number on this basis. It's just theoretical. What compares us with the candidates for the President of the Republic is that we perform alone, not on the basis of signatures, and we submit to the same rules that I think – I can speak from my own experience, because this is only experienced by someone who has gone through this – extremely sharp. For example, a candidate who wishes to contact all voters of the national community in writing cannot do so if he uses the funds allowed for this purpose for the campaign. For example, in the case of the Italian national community, this amounts to less than a thousand euros, and it is impossible by post to contact voters for this sum if the costs of paper, printing, reproduction and postal costs are accounted for. This cannot be done twice in the same campaign because these thousands of euros are exceeded, even though man pays for these funds from his own pocket. This is where we come to the campaign. As far as funding is concerned, we have been excluded from the customer financing mechanism because we are not a party. At first, we received this compensation as those who hold one seat in Parliament. In proportion to this, we have received some funds for political action. Let me say that societies, the only ones we can turn to, for example, to organize a meeting with voters, are not obliged to do so, and this is a cost to them. We must constantly ask someone to help us get in touch with more voters. We're not equal. As far as the campaign is concerned, the candidates do not have these funds, unless they are received from certain sponsors, because they cannot draw from the funds from which the parties partly draw these costs, and this is from the source of funding for political parties. We have repeatedly pointed out these problems and inconsistencies in the system, but in vain. Perhaps further consideration of these two laws will be an opportunity to sit down and see what can be done to ensure that we are equal to the others in the performance of our function and in the running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh has been reported as the last to be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! I am tempted to say that on Friday afternoon, at 15.55, I do not talk about it, and I would also do so if today there were quite a few debates that deserve my comment to the first time in this House, and a comment on when we talk about our reputation, what our reputation is. I can say that I have put quite a few electoral campaigns through, on a local level, that I have experienced political life on a local level, and there has never been such a vocabulary, such a way of speaking as I hear here, honourable Members and Members, about who we are, what we are, how we are left-wing or what we are left-wing – I am proud that I am left-handed – what we are and what is wrong with this whole matter. And we were in the congregation and at the municipal level also left, right, weird, not weird, all of us, and we were talking about this congregation, and we were trying to solve this problem the way it would be right. It would be right to do so for this country, saying that we are self - esteemed, that we speak with dignity and that we do not malign anyone. That we do not speak ill of anyone, that we do not speak abusively and that we try to inspire trust. I cannot agree that people are ignorant, illiterate, that they need to be described. Ladies and gentlemen, people are very literate, they know very well what is right and what is wrong. That's how they decide to give us a vote at every election. Then they show how much they know and how much they believe our bluff. My clients can, too. We too have received lessons, as each of us has received lessons from what we have done. People know. Don't say they don't know. They know and know exactly what we're like. What's the rating, what's the media like when we talk about who's doing everything wrong? All those who say, "I'm not the only one corrupt" – I'm sorry, this has to be proven. When someone spoke about Kresal, about her resignation — she did a very courageous act, a chivalrous act when she resigned without being convicted without being accused. He was only the suspicion of the anti-corruption commission, and she found that she could no longer do so. This should be done by each one of those who submits to politics and who understands what an honorable act is. Then it wouldn't be like today, as it generally is with our ratings. Individuals talk about not getting that kind of money from small political parties. This is at the expense of having only two parties or having a majority system, and then we could work on this system and think of all the small ones. And only the great ones who get it can drive through everything else without listening to others. Politics is that we listen very carefully to the opinions of others. To listen to him, to understand him, and then to try to bring him into action. Therefore, my repeated call, even as the oldest in the National Assembly: ladies and gentlemen, we speak with respect, let us not condemn people in advance – we have courts – to argue what is wrong. Anyone who has the courage to speak unpunished here should, however, do so to report to the one who has to report to him if you know everything that is wrong. Otherwise, it is all bad political propaganda, which very literate people, electives and voters understand and reward extremely delicately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Perhaps a representative of the government, Minister, would like a final word? Dr. Virant? [[He doesn't want to.]] I find that we have some time left, even though all the debaters you wanted had a word with us. I'm asking if there might still be a desire to discuss it. There's still a desire to discuss it. I'm opening the way for a debate. 31 panellists have been reported. I'm asking how much time is left. A few more than 4 minutes per debater, so we will continue the debate. The first reported is Mrs Alenka Pavlič – cancelling. Mr. Joseph Kunic – he's giving up. Mrs Jana Jenko – she's giving up. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik? Mr. Branko Kurnjek? Jani Möderndorfer? Mrs. Ljubica Jelusic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. I support this law. I think he's suitable for second reading. With regard to its content, however, I would like to draw attention in particular to one part of which has been quite critical here today, namely the part that speaks of public opinion polls being published before the elections at the time of the electoral campaign up to one day before the elections, in order to align themselves with other publications before the so-called electoral silence. I think that's right, because all of us who knew the procedures of the public research process knew that, despite the fact that they should not be published, they are working, and those who were dedicated or close to the public opinion researchers were aware of the results, but the rest of us were ignorant or did not know how they showed you. There have been a lot of words at the expense of these public research being done by bad researchers and being followed by people who are either way with FDV or poorly trained, and that these studies are carried out by some strange methods. I would like to say that the problem is that most debaters obviously do not know that each medium has its own public institutions, private institutions working for their needs, and that it is not necessary for these institutions to be accompanied by FDV experts who carry out research within the Faculty of Social Sciences with an international comparative methodology and also a high value in international comparisons. If people in Slovenia have problems seeing their face in mirrors in these studies, there is another problem, but these studies, if they are working at the Faculty of Social Sciences, are always done according to appropriate scientific methodologies. Then how they are interpreted either in public or in the media is another problem. I would like to point out that whenever we participate or participate in a public opinion survey, always see who asks you, from which media or from which private company, and I ask you not to condemn the Faculty of Social Sciences in advance for the methodology and research you hear about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you. At the end of the debate or the position of the Group of Members, I asked the Minister how many times he had taken care of the financial side of the electoral campaign, because I expected the Minister to respond at the time, and because I also hoped that we would discuss it. If we're based on practice, it's the best way to talk. Otherwise, the minister is still not here. I agree that the financial framework of the electoral campaign or the referendum campaign is not everything. Earlier, I think that someone in the position of the parliamentary group – I think colleague Mr Han – said that the rich electoral campaigns are passé. International experience also shows that electoral campaigns move mainly into two segments. One is direct contact with people or voters, and the other is an online segment or electoral campaign via social networks. But let's be honest and get out of practice. You have a new candidate. You know, we always have our mouths full: new faces, new candidates, and then the country will be saved. Imagine you have two candidates in some constituency. Some member of a particular party – it doesn't matter at all – who is running, say, for the fourth time, for the fifth time, and people know exactly what he looks like, who he's married to, everything about him. Then you have a candidate, a so-called new face, and they say, "Who the hell is this?" If we automatically take the financial means that this new candidate will not have for either two spheres, not for one poster or for a trifle, I really wonder how rational we are in wanting new faces. We all know that the election or referendum campaign lasts 30 days. At that time, I think that all of us, and probably those who have not been elected, know how it is that you try to organize this time as best as possible, and every hour you have at your disposal, according to what the law provides, you try twice. Indeed, Minister, I see nothing wrong with having a single entrepreneur who can afford to give you 500 euros. Then it is contaminated only because they are good friends or because they trust a customer or maybe they are just neighbors who have lived together for the rest of their lives and are willing to guarantee for you not only with their voice but also with financial support. Now that won't be possible, which I find completely pointless. I already said in my previous marriage: let's open up, let's do it more liberally. The minister always advocates how liberal he is. All right, let's open up the possibility of funding for everyone, with the exception of state-owned enterprises or state-owned enterprises, and then by means of controls, let's guess or figure out who donated to someone. I've already run several electoral campaigns, and this closing of electoral campaigns seems completely pointless to me. Finally, we will probably vote in the next law that we will just end the election campaign, but I don't think the Slovenian public will be satisfied again. They will still want our blood because, as has been said many times, politics has rotted, MPs, ministers, and I don't know what, they're all corrupt, they're all corrupt, they're already telling us what we're like, and it's going to go on. Then we can definitively end the ban on financing political parties. To be able to close the doors of both the National Assembly and the government, and perhaps all of us can gather only resources together to sign one referendum and say whether we want to join, for example, Austria, we invite all those who say a lot of things, but do nothing, we probably find five of the most incompetent people in the employment institutions and give them the opportunity to occupy their seat in a certain part of the Austrian National Parliament and we will be saved. Anarchy will be at the top and we will all live happily ever after. I really ask myself, Minister – you are so liberal and on the other hand you are doing exactly the opposite, and therefore I urge you that if you do not prepare the amendments for the second reading, we will be in the SDS Group because we think that you are doing what you are doing is completely wrong. You are also reminded of this by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which has adopted certain principles, and you are mixing these principles with each other. If there is a reasonable balance between public and private financing, this does not mean that public funding must be abolished. If it contains clear criteria for the allocation of state resources, this does not mean that new customers have an advantage over old clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you, too. The next word is Mr Roberto Battelli and prepare for Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Nothing dramatic, and I'll be very short. With regard to those thousands of euros, I should say that, if this is exceeded, a thousand 100 and something, the minimum penalty is 700 euros. So much for the proportionality of these matters. Second, you all know that as such, national communities cannot pay membership fees because they are national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, prepare yourself for Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much. President, I think we should protest a little bit to begin with. I know the rules of procedure don't allow you to do that, but for the sake of the public. We just shared time and checked in the entire hall as you could see, and then we get a few minutes, sometimes even a few seconds, and then right after that, "I quit." That means total abuse. This "cancellation" usually does not apply to two SD Members – all the honor. But when I hear Positive Slovenia, what does that mean? This means that you sign up so that – I tell the viewers – they can't talk to me. It's manipulation. Now for the content. I myself will touch a bit of what the predecessors have said in terms of public opinion, particularly, say, Mr Meh. I have great respect for people, their opinions, and I'm sure they know how to make choices in elections. However, you need to know something — often the truth does not come to people, and then you can make decisions on the basis that the truth does not come to them. I'll give you three cases, purely exact, to make it clear. When I was elected to this Parliament in 2008, an article appeared in a newspaper that I chose one of the largest apartments in the state administration and that I live on my own 65 square meters in Ljubljana. Very interesting, but the truth is different. There was no smaller apartment because the older Members took smaller apartments. In 2012, as a minister, I was asked what kind of work apartment I live in, and I invited journalists because I live in an apartment that is 19 square meters tall, which is one of the smallest in the state administration, has no washing machine. I invited them and they looked at it, they took pictures, they copied it, and the article was entitled "Gorenak pays at least for an apartment in the state administration". Bravo! [[advertising from the hall]] Of course it's true, but these are the truths that come to people, not the truth that they really are. When I was in charge of the interior ministry, they asked me how much I spend on the cabinet or how much citizens pay for the operation of my office. I told them that there are 8 employees, for whom we pay about €18.19.000 a month. However, I gave them a comparative indication that the predecessor had 18 employees, for which she paid EUR 46,000 a month. Since the article had never been published, I asked the editor when this would be published in view of the fact that I had to give the data so quickly in two hours. The answer was that the data is not interesting. This is a problem, Mr Meh, because then the real truth does not come to people, but the false truths come. One of these was how I flew from Ljubljana to the fall hospital with a helicopter, which is not true at all, but it was. But let's leave this part. A few words more about this second part, as Mrs Jelusič said. I totally accept that. I'm not supposed to chimp university, but there's something that needs to be said. On the FDV is a hard part of sociologists, which is a disaster — we both need to know — and this hard part will now produce – what? Now we can predict in advance. We can now predict by the new year what Mr Toš will say. One of the first things that will be – the ceremony will find that Slovenian political space and people need a new customer. That's a fact, you'll see. 50% of people don't know who to vote for, and they're going to conclude that we need a new client. That's gotta be one thing. The second thing that will happen in falsifying this public opinion will be what? Look at the work today and you'll see we're already there. The Spanish model for bank resolution is very suitable for Slovenia. Now, is the Nobel Prize likely to be for Brotherhood, for Prime Minister of the Government, or what? Public will come to prepare the use of funds from this mechanism for banks, and these media that were in my time alone in the government will be hostile to me and to the then government will make the terrain and the few we can expect – what? Personality of the year, Slovenian of the year: Mrs Bratušek, who brought the threesome. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, however, Dr. Gorenak, I would like to clarify that the allocation of time and the cancellations of individual Members and Members are a well-established practice and we can meet it in all the parliamentary groups. So it is right that we are trying to define ourselves self-critically on this issue. The fact is, they can apply and then sign off on their own. In doing so, they risk not being able to give their opinion or answer to any claim made by the speaker, who may have that word. The next person to have a word is Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I see that colleagues from the members of the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia have not yet recovered from the presentation of the budget because they are not in the Chamber. I think it was a tough school and they won't make mistakes like this again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u107	Mr Tanko, let me remind you, however, that this is not an item of the agenda, and I ask you to remain on the proposal of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u108	The second thing I think the problem has arisen, and I've been pointing to this for a long time, is that we have government representatives here who are actively silent. At the previous extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister spent 13 minutes of the announced hour and a half. Today, at two points of the agenda, another minister is once again silent, sitting here, tweeting, not responding to Members or not discussing, not explaining. I think that this is the problem that has settled in these parliamentary benches in this part of the term. They waste our time, they announce our time, and then they're gone and they don't answer. I think that's very bad. The next thing I want to remind you of is the next one. The coalition takes Greece as a dry gold, as a holy cow, as an institution whose recommendations need to be made in one way or another without a reserve, unconditionally entered into the Slovenian legal order. On the other hand, we have a European Commission, a more important institution, for Slovenia, for sure, which recommendations the Government does not take into account. The left policy option is more or less a front against the institutions of the European Union, against the European Commission in general. I would only suggest to my fellow Members that you set some priorities in the National Assembly and that we work in accordance with what is primary for this country. This European legal framework, the drawing up of European funds and so on is paramount. But I do see that all other marginalities are much more necessary than something like that. What my colleagues have said about the role of KPK and Greece in the Slovenian legal order is probably true because some institutions that do not have any powers play a disproportionately large role. The Slovenian State Holding Act will – this is almost the case – censor over everything will be the KPK, and then there will be the Presidency or the Management Board of Holding and so on. In this case, when it comes to the election, the election campaign, set up a similar model. Big brother will look after everything, every detail, every coffee. In case the coffee is brought wrong, there will be an enormous punishment for a political party. Be practical – who in the Republic of Slovenia will closely control the implementation of the electoral campaign law? How is that possible? Will it be possible only with some informers to monitor it, report it, and there will be a joyful sentence, or is it an objective need for such a regime? In this case, the Minister who drafted this law was the one in charge of simplifying matters, preparing matters to be transparent and so on. None of it is. In this case, it is the excessiveity and gravity of this law. On the other hand, I also note that the one representing the Government in this case, as regards ethics, as well as other things, transparency, is very unhappy. It would be good for the Government to propose this electoral-related legislation through another department. At least this way we would not stumble those suspicions about ratings, compensations, the use of different beneficiary flights, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Jurša has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u110	President, thank you for your word. When I applied for a debate to allocate extra time, I counted that there would be so many of us that we would not even discuss this subject anymore, because I have estimated that some colleagues are discussing some issues that are not related to this point. Mr President, I expect you not to stop me, because I will also say something about my wonderful office apartment. I have one of the largest residences of the members of the National Assembly, not because I wanted it myself, but because it was given to me. Those who gave it to me may not have understood that I would live alone in this apartment. There's a lot that I can ride on my bike in there, but he's also working on my personal pocket and our family budget. And I don't have a washing machine because I have a good wife at home and she does it to me in Prlecia. Now, if I were not joking, I would say what I would like to stress in this proposal. If effective controls are put in place, this means that we can accept this or can personally confirm that I will vote in favour of this law. If we are to address the shortcomings that have actually proven concrete in the activities related to the elections and the referendum, then it also shows that we can support this issue and do something useful. If we also eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – I have listed three reasons – then this means that we can support this or personally support it, but I will not apply for explanations of vote. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you, too. The next one has the word, Mr Happy Meh, to prepare the mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u112	I'd like to comment on it this time, too. Some say that Greece is not a real institution. Why? Because it is an institution of the Council of Europe? I also protest against what Mr Tanko said – that the left policy option is against the EU institutions. I'm strongly protesting! It's not right to talk like that. It's not right for a man to talk like that and speak for a speech, but when you answer him, he goes out because he won't listen. Mr Gorenak is also talking about bad things, such as the Nobel Prize for President of the Government. Is this the Member's speech when we talk here today about what our future should be? Is that a Member's speech? He was talking about riding a helicopter and what people were saying. They'll talk about it all the time, but when we talk about it in this temple, then it shouldn't be our priority. Criticism of the Minister not to answer – the moment Mr Gorenak said what he was going to say, he took the bag and left. Is this a relationship when we talk about someone not responding to it? It is procedural manipulation, however, that Mr Tanko is the least called in the National Assembly to talk about manipulation when we applied for time-sharing. Let's just remember handling emergency sessions, pauses, procedural questions, because he's a real master at it. When someone talks about manipulation, when they talk about what others do, it would be wise for them to clean up their own lives first. Today we are talking about what our relationship should be, how we should be told about others, and what our campaigns should be. Once again, we're talking about what we can tell everyone in the face. We say what's right to say here, and let's not take advantage of this place to talk about people bad if they don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! It surprises me, and I find it interesting that today there are so many words when we limit ourselves. Dr. Virant was the first to say, as president of the National Assembly, that we have to start saving on our own before we take people. We are much easier off than we are when we take some measures, where we are lowering some of the rights from the budget that were still, let's say, before a good year of standing. As far as businesses are concerned, much has been said today. I do not mind that companies could finance, contribute to customers if they believe in our programmes, but it is critical or disturbing that in the past those companies received public tenders and that their revenues with the country increased dramatically when their options were in power. This is what we must prevent, colleagues and colleagues, and therefore I think that this legislation, this twin we are dealing with today, is necessary. However, I do not think that you should be concerned if any contribution from any company will be made to your accounts, because this law provides that it should be indicated for charity purposes within 30 days. If that happens, thank God, we will also do something good for humanitarian purposes by political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law on the registration of civil rights. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Boštjan Šefic, who will present the law and act here as State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to give you a brief introduction to the new law on the register of electoral rights, which deals with the following areas: the content and keeping of the register of electoral rights, the identification of the title for the exercise of electoral rights, the examination of the register, the composition of electoral directories, the registration of plans for the exercise of electoral rights and the issuance of electoral cards. The law is a technical law compared to other electoral legislation and is applied in parallel with other system-wide electoral legislation. There are two reasons for the adoption of the new law. Firstly, coordination with the directives of the European Union, and secondly, rationalisation of the management of the register of electoral rights, composition, decommissioning and finalisation of electoral directories and the issuance of electoral cards. In short, the main solutions to the new law relating to, for the first time, the coordination with the Council Directive governing electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament by providing for mandatory timely notification to citizens of other Member States of the European Union residing in Slovenia of the electoral process and the possible vote. Furthermore, coordination with the Council Directive governing electoral rights in local elections and with the Law on Local Elections by granting equal recognition of electoral rights to citizens of the European Union with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of the European Union who reside in the Republic of Slovenia temporarily. It is also specified that one register of electoral rights shall be kept without background and an accurate set of personal data, as well as data relating to specific ways of exercising electoral rights in individual elections or elections, such as information on electoral cards issued. The record shall establish information on the additional electoral rights of citizens, members of the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community and members of the Roma community. So far, this electoral right has only been recorded by means of electoral directories that were drawn up manually, based on old electoral directories, and the data were unscrupulous and had to be verified manually every time. Once the law is in force, electoral directories will be able to be made like all other electoral directories — computerized processing, fast and up-to-date data. This eliminates the copying of old data and their manual verification. The Commissions of the Self-Governmental National Communities and the Commissions of the Roma Community, which decide on the electoral rights of a member of the national or Roma community, will be appointed by a term of five years and not five days after the call for elections. In this way, they will have much more time to decide on new requirements for the recognition of special electoral rights. In order to facilitate the decision-making of the commissions, the law also provides framework criteria for the recognition of specific electoral rights that have not been established so far. This implements the decision of the Constitutional Court. In order to protect personal data, the classical decomposition of electoral directories shall be suspended, so that everyone can verify the data of anyone written on the electoral directory on paper, which will also halve the costs of the electoral publication, as they will only be printed for voting. Nevertheless, the individual will be able to verify at any time the data kept on him in the register of electoral rights, but only for himself. Notwithstanding the above, the decommissioning of electoral directories is still maintained in such a way that administrative units will receive them directly in the register in electronic form prior to the vote. In the area of the preparation of electoral lists, the shortcomings of the existing regime for the use of electoral directories for the second round of voting shall be addressed. At the same time, the possibility of using one electoral directory is introduced if there are multiple types of elections or elections at the same time. In addition, rationalisation is introduced in the new regime for the completion of electoral directories without the transitional manual updating of data, the review and use of data and the rationalisation and issuance of electoral cards by official duty are regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you, too, for the presentation. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u118	It is a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the SDS Group, which in the next law, which is before us today and which is the last in a series of electoral legislation, particularly draws attention to some problems that also touch on the constitutional nature. But let me start with a positive. It is good that some of the solutions required of us by the European Union are in place. This has proved to be the most recent advocate of normality in Slovenia in a number of cases, when it comes to quite interesting, original solutions, which are sometimes offered as an alternative and which have proved to be unsuccessful everywhere, so that the law is certainly welcome in this part. It is also good that it preserves some of the solutions that have been known to date by the legislation that we have worked very hard for in the SDS and personally in the past. One of them seems simple, but we haven’t had it for a long time – it’s the voter’s signature in the electoral directory, because too many times the question was raised that someone had come to the polls and said that he had already been marked with a cross, that he had voted, and then find out what was true and what was not true. So the credibility of the elections and the individual solutions are certainly positive solutions that have been introduced in recent years and are being maintained here. What is an open problem is covered in three sets, and on all three of you, I suppose, as in the SDS, we have received the remaining official warnings. The first question is that, on behalf of the SDS, he would recommend to the Minister a great deal of caution and sensitivity when it comes to self-governing national communities, one of which is more diplomatic, and one points out very directly that by law he is interfering with an area where it is very likely — according to their assessment — there is no doubt at all — about the indigenous rights of the communities themselves, about which they must be, and have been, after the legislation so far, autonomous and where, very quickly, the legislator and, in particular, the proponent of the law can be found on a rather slippery ground of constitutional judgment, which is generally in favour of the national communities. For it is a category which is specifically protected by the Slovenian Constitution, and it is the same. Another problem which is open and which may also be of a constitutional nature is, in some ways, somewhat amusing, as some municipalities point out that in transferring individual tasks to the municipalities, according to their assessment, the state is now transferring a new obligation to the municipalities by law, but does not provide additional funds for this, which is clearly contrary to the current constitutional order. But to make the matter a bit humorous, let me say that under this warning is the undersigned Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Zoran Jankovic. So we would expect to have very clear explanations here. Third, which I think is even more problematic, is the issue of regulating elections abroad. There is now a very interesting solution. If a material is not taken over twice at an address with which it is available, nothing is checked, but it is simply erased. We'll get a very interesting new category deleted. You know, this thing isn't that simple. In this case, we could legally interpret that someone does not take over the electoral material either, let's say, if he does with those elections or with anything that that moment is, he doesn't even want to do. He always has the right to abstinence. That's what this story must have forgotten. That's how it's possible. This cannot be ruled out in advance. But if that is understood, then the question is whether all those who do not participate twice in Slovenia will be deleted from the electoral directory. After all, abstinence or, in this case, failure to take over electoral material could in some way be equivalent. It's not that simple. This will have to be considered very well here, so that there will be no more severe consequences. There's no such thing as a mindless operation abroad. It is forgotten that, regardless of whether we are in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or abroad, when it comes to the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights, we are equal before the law and the constitution. If something is introduced for one another, it must also be for others, and it must be extremely careful not to be again on what I have previously warned about – on the slippery ground of constitutional judgment. For this is the exercise of the fundamental right known by democracy — passive and active electoral rights, elections and love, regardless of the fact that this law formally realizes or regulates only the issue of electoral directories. It's still kind of substantive, because this way it's decided who's going to be informed in some way, in particular, by sending electoral materials abroad about something going on, because it's not said that it's following all this. When it comes to information issues, it is not just about taking over or not taking over, say, mail, and on the basis of this to make premature decisions as to whether someone exists at any address, whether the address is real or not. Here it would be very likely to be necessary to find some others, in my view, different mechanisms involving diplomatic-consular representations, or there would have to be some additional guards, so that the issue will not be born into the form of savings at the expense of our citizens and citizens abroad, which would be constitutionally unacceptable. What about the right to information? There has already been a lot of talk about this today, but I warn you that this has not yet been well solved in Slovenia. If you're going to do a survey among people now, I'm very interested in what percentage of people know that on Monday, the president of this government here has explained and given the union a word that it will not interfere with the lowest wage. The next day, on the day that this was published in the newspapers, the National Assembly reached out to the guaranteed salary and to all others because of changes in income laws. On top of that, relief for those who are daily migrants and who are employed abroad, which will have other negative consequences, I am not even talking about the billions that have been mentioned by the Minister in the event of the poor development of the so-called deleted compensations. I am very interested in how many people in Slovenia know this, except abroad. How can people then participate in elections? How people should act, even when it comes specifically to sending mail that they may think is something else, if they do not know what it is at that time, if it is attributed to some elements that we can also understand differently, or that person who is touched by it is otherwise understood. I would therefore point out once again that citizens and citizens abroad are not to be treated lightly. They have the same rights, and it is the duty of the State to find mechanisms to enable them to exercise these rights undeniably. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Fellow Member of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! It has already been said that the draft law on registering electoral law is a technical law. This is merely an implementing regulation of electoral legislation that fully regulates the maintenance of the register of electoral rights, the compilation of electoral directories and the issuance of electoral cards. This subject is rarely addressed in the National Assembly, since unlike other laws, it is rarely affected. In view of the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, it was necessary to intervene in this law in order to comply with the legal order of the European Union and also with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, a new larger law was passed in 2002 and another short amendment was adopted in 2006 with the addition of Article 10 explaining that the exercise of the right to vote should be allowed to the maximum number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. This is precisely the work of the electoral register and the changes related to it, and I will deal with the opinion of the parliamentary group further. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in 2006 provided, among other things, a legal solution to the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, to voters resident abroad to ensure that electoral material – electoral paper, electoral card and written envelope are sent to them by post for each election to the National Assembly on a regular basis. Since this law applies also to the elections of the President of the Republic and to the elections of Members and Members to the European Parliament, such arrangements also apply to these elections. In doing so, it should be known that post voting constitutes an exception to the classic voting method, which takes place on the so-called mother voters, where the individual electorate is registered in the electoral directory. Thus, the amendment in question made the exception a rule. Before that, it was considered that these voters could only vote by mail from abroad on the basis of a prior timely request by the competent electoral commission to want to vote by mail. Similarly, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, electorates who are temporarily or electorate from abroad who vote in Slovenia, for example in prisons, in homes for older citizens, in hospitals, or as is the case with the implementation of a referendum at the national level. In all these cases, it is necessary to require the electorate to vote by post, while such a requirement is sufficient to ensure that the electorate receives the electoral material at the desired address and actually votes. There is another important difference between citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, voters with permanent residence abroad, and among the remaining categories of voters mentioned above. The first is that they have the opportunity to vote by post and also by the diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for the conduct of elections in the country where the elector is permanently resident. This shall not apply to all other categories of electors who have applied for a post-vote. They can only vote by post, but not by other means. If we consider the justification of such an arrangement, which has created a distinction between the individual categories of voters and is the substance of the Elections Act in the National Assembly, it is not possible to avoid the discussion of the experience that has so far been brought about by practice. The latter is closely linked to the implementation of the law on registering electoral law. The experience of sending electoral material on official duty abroad shows that many of the data on the records of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, voters with permanent residence abroad are flawed or inaccurate. This issue is also highlighted by the proposaler for amendments and the addition of this law when he explains the data on returned mail when the elections to the European Parliament were held in 2009 – 6,788 returned shipments – and the elections to the National Assembly in 2011, when the number rose to 7,300 returned shipments. However, the reasons for the return of mail are different — whether the addressee died, moved, or not known address, not known personal name, most often not real and similar. These postal consignments are considered not to have reached the addressee and there is a cost for public funds which can in no way be justified. Let's not forget that it's about shipping mail abroad, which means the postal cost is higher. The motioner points out that most of the responsibility for the accuracy of the data in the register of the electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, electorates with permanent residence abroad on their own. They are legally obliged by the competent administrative unit or diplomatic-consular representative to notify any changes to the personal name, address of the place of residence abroad, which is often not the case in practice. No penalty is provided for the suspension of such conduct, nor is it provided for that electoral material not to be sent to the electorate on an official basis. In practice, this means that family members do not often report the death of their loved ones, and in the register of citizens there remains an increase in the number of living centuries. Voters shall not report changes in their personal status or changes to the address of permanent residence when they move abroad or when they move abroad. The drafter therefore proposes a solution which, in good works, resolves the reckless sending of electoral material to citizens with permanent residence abroad. Since the adoption of the proposed law, it will be considered that the electoral material sent abroad under official duty, as stipulated in Article 82 of the Electoral Law, will be accurately recorded. Addressees who will not receive electoral material twice on this basis shall no longer receive electoral material on this basis on an official basis until the information on the addressees in the electoral law register is corrected or accurate. At the same time, it is essential to stress that this category of voters does not give rise to electoral rights. These voters will be able to vote at the competent diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the fact that the electorate has a registered permanent residence abroad. So much for some imprecise claims before. Again, it must be stressed that such a legal solution eliminates the reckless sending of electoral material abroad, and unfortunately, the issue of accuracy in the register of electoral law remains open. As has already been said, most of the responsibility for accuracy lies with the electorate, but it is also worth noting the role and position of the competent national authorities. The latter are bound to respect or implement the applicable laws governing the area of the register of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the register of voting rights. This also means that the competent national authorities may change the data in those records only on the basis of fulfilled legal conditions and in the manner or procedures prescribed by law. This means, in practice, that if the data on the addressee’s death is attributed to the form by hand, the authorities cannot take this footnote into account because of the legal restrictions. The same is true if the addressee, the recipient of the material is credited either on an election card or on a ballot, or how else it is expressed that he no longer wants to receive electoral material in the future because he does not want to vote on the political decisions in Slovenia. This is the case when the State authority does not have a legal basis for leaving the shipment, something. The bill also points to something else in the light of the fact that it is aware of these problems. It also speaks of the fact that the competent national authorities do not have and cannot have the legal possibility of introducing an administrative procedure to determine the actual state of permanent residence abroad. The problem is therefore broader, more complex, so the question is to what extent it can be solved by amending the law that we are dealing with. It should be borne in mind that this issue concerns sensitive issues relating to the handling of personal data, matters relating to the regulation or exercise of electoral law, and the rights, duties and powers of the electorate on the one hand and of the state authorities on the other. It is therefore necessary to adopt individual legal solutions with serious consideration so that, in an excessive desire for a simplified procedure to change the data in the Register of Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, they do not endanger the appropriate level of protection of personal data or reluctantly prevent the electorate from exercising the right to vote. You should think about it in at least three ways. First of all, it is the citizens' awareness to report any changes that the law imposes on them. Perhaps the country also has some leverage and potential for this awareness to be enhanced. We like to talk about our societies abroad, for example, and we might as well take care of that. Secondly, strengthening cooperation between the competent national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent authorities abroad. What data, for example, is the power to acquire through international bilateral and multilateral agreements, which Slovenia has also signed. Thirdly, tools – forms, electronic communication, assistance to voters how to deal – with which the competent national authorities in the Republic of Slovenia would contact voters and on the basis of which they could initiate appropriate procedures to change data in the register of nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. Such tools should enable these authorities to phase out situations previously mentioned and in practice occurring. Let me get this. On the basis of all of this, it is likely to be worth considering whether the text of the marriage proposal can be further improved by the second reading of the draft law on the home working body. Speaking of dealing with the labour force, it already points to the intention of the Social Democrats' Group of Members to support the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The proposed new law on registering electoral rights harmonises the implementing regulation of Slovenian electoral legislation with European directives, while at the same time amending the provisions on individual electoral activities, such as keeping records, drawing up directories and listing of electoral cards. The solutions proposed go in the direction of modernisation and rationalisation of electoral activities. However, citizens of the European Union, who will reside permanently or temporarily in one of the Member States, will not be citizens of the European Union, will be facilitated by the exercise of active and passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament, as they will be informed in due time before the elections of the elections and of the possible vote. Technical solutions to the law also go in the direction of preventing or limiting a double voice. The citizen of another Member State of the European Union will only be allowed to enter our register of electoral rights in the European Parliament on the basis of a specific requirement to be decided by the competent Ministry of the Interior. The entry will therefore be possible only after the reasons have been established, otherwise the entry will be rejected by a decision. Both the citizen and the home country will have to be informed of the entry, preventing the possibility of double-voting. In addition to these amendments, which will, on the one hand, facilitate the exercise of their passive and active rights by the European Parliament to citizens and nationals of other European Union Member States in the elections and, on the other hand, create or complement appropriate mechanisms to prevent abuses, the recast law will also make a number of changes that will directly increase the legitimacy of elected persons. There will certainly be a provision in which, in the event of a re-voting of the President of the Republic and the mayors and the subsequent re-elections, an entirely new electoral directory will be prepared, more appropriate than the current solution. The amended law also follows the principle of economics or rational spending of budget resources in work relating to the sending of electoral material abroad. From past experience, a significant proportion of the unsuccessfully served electoral material has been detected at the addresses of our citizens abroad. By means of an amendment, the sending of the material to the current addresses of citizens is suspended. In the Civil Gazette, we are committed to removing administrative obstacles and we are open to solutions based on a real assessment of the proposals, so we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you, too. The following is Mrs Jasmina Opec, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In full form and parliamentary condition without shocks and shocks, all once again welcome on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party and my personal name! The right to vote is the fundamental constitutional and political right of the citizen and the most important component of the electoral system, as enshrined in Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Registration of Election Rights is only an implementing regulation or, in other words, a technical law governing the content of this right. These are information on the register of electoral rights, the identification of the title for the exercise of electoral rights, the examination of electoral rights, the compilation of electoral directories, the recording of the manner in which electoral rights are exercised and the issuance of electoral cards. Keeping the register of electoral rights is very important, since it allows the exercise of electoral rights for voters who have the right to vote and this prevents individuals who do not have the right to vote, while preventing the possible dual or multiple exercise of the electoral rights of the same electorate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law, including because it limits excessive interference with individual privacy and thus reduces the risk of identity theft and other possible abuses due to disclosure of personal data. The existing law is also lacking in Article 45, as it only provides for the issuance of an electoral card for citizens who reside permanently or temporarily abroad and who wish to exercise their electoral right by post. The new law preserves this possibility and identifies other possible means of exercising electoral rights outside the mother electorate, that is, by post, by electoral officer at home or outside the place of residence. The law also provides for a more rational approach to the composition and printing of electoral directories and electoral cards, thus making it easier and faster to carry out electoral tasks, which should also allow for the saving of human work. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law on registering electoral rights at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There is still a third law before us in the package of amendments to electoral law, namely the bill on registering electoral law. This law is more technical as it provides for the maintenance of the register of electoral rights, the composition of electoral directories and the issuance of electoral cards. In the long term, the failure to send electoral material abroad to unmistakably out-of-date citizens’ addresses is hereby suspended. The registration of multiple return consignments of electoral material from the same address shall be introduced. The register of electoral rights introduces information on the additional electoral rights of citizens, members of the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community and members of the Roma community. The possibility of viewing the personal data contained in the register of electoral rights for other persons in the decommissioning of electoral directories is excluded, in order to protect personal data and to reduce the risk of identity theft and other possible abuses due to excessive disclosure of personal data. However, it is also possible for each individual to check the data for himself at any time. This can be done through an e-government portal or with the authorities responsible for maintaining the register of electoral rights. The local authority for data verification shall also be withdrawn. The State Election Commission and the electoral commission responsible for carrying out individual elections or voting will still have the opportunity to take a direct look at the use of the electoral rights record data for the conduct of electoral activities and the verification of candidates. According to the proposaler, administrative units and the Ministry of the Interior will be burdened with this, and electoral work will be done faster and without unnecessary correspondence between the authorities. The bill rationalises the issuance of electoral cards by official duty, the issuance of electoral cards on request, or the citizen's message on the chosen way to exercise electoral rights. A new regime for the completion of electoral directories without the prior manual updating of data also contributes to greater rationalisation. The bill provides that electoral directories shall be used for the election or vote, which shall express the situation in the register of voting rights 15 days before the date of the vote without manual corrections. A voter who has changed his residence from the composition of the electoral directory to the day of the vote is exercising his electoral right to the electorate, which he had on the day of the election directory. The proposal thus brings a clearly defined date for the review of the situation in the record, which provides the citizen with adequate information on which the electorate can expect to vote, and a sufficient period for sending notices to the electorate, without further subsequent notification or modification and possible inconsistencies. The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will vote in favour of the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State and co-worker! Instead of the introduction, I would like to begin by thanking my distinguished colleague Jožet Tank for his concern for the New Slovenia Group. I believe it was in his personal name and in a wicked way. Let me say that Nova Slovenija has not collapsed because of a discussion with the President of the Government and never has and will not collapse because of a discussion with any Prime Minister. The image somehow tells us that if someone invites you, even in writing, to an event, then you go or apologize if there is a higher power. It is normal that we did not expect anything to be achieved with regard to the balance or the budget. I have to say, we've told the government a lot, and most importantly, I'm going to say, not the message of this meeting, but today's Friday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u129	Mr. Horvath, I suggest you stay on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. President. I want to say the most important message this Friday, and this is the government's promise that the opposition will also be invited to a new social agreement. This is, in my opinion, a key message for today. Thanks again to my friend Jozet. Now to the point. Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the right to vote for all full-year citizens and under the same conditions. The implementing rules, as well as the Law on the Registration of Election Rights, must be in accordance with this constitutional provision. The law under consideration mainly brings more modern and technically advanced solutions, which correspond mainly to technological developments, and possibilities for linking and accessing the electronic databases necessary for the exercise of electoral rights. The law confers certain powers with regard to the maintenance of the register of electoral rights on the State Election Commission. We support these solutions in new Slovenia. We also support those solutions that constitute the implementation of the European directives into this law. However, we do not support solutions that restrict electoral law and are unconstitutional, according to New Slovenia. Indeed, today's new law on registering electoral rights introduces an important novelty compared to the regulation: supplementing the register of electoral rights with some data. In particular, it is a matter of entering data on how many times Slovenian citizens abroad have been unsuccessfully served an electoral card. If such an electoral card is twice unsuccessfully served to the electorate, the electoral card and electoral material shall not be sent to the electorate. Such an electorate is practically deprived of the right to vote. In other words, he's been erased. In the bill itself, the government states that it is possible that a failure to send mail could be caused by a failure to deliver mail abroad or by the current absence of an electorate from the place of residence. If the electorate fails to take over the election card twice, he will no longer be sent electoral material until the electorate announces the change of address. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the reasons for the failure to deliver electoral mail are no longer and are not conditioned only by the change of permanent residence of the electorate. It is a matter of different country-specific rules on the manner in which the recommended postal shipments are served until the electorate is sent to work elsewhere, or of temporary stay in a hospital or a supply facility. In all these cases, the permanent residence of the electorate does not change, and it is often not in the power of the electorate to communicate the reason for his absence from his place of residence. We would like to reiterate that it is not the only reason for the failure to deliver the electoral card and electoral material to Slovenian citizens abroad to change personal data or permanent residence, as presented in the explanation of the bill. The expected consequences are the same for them. A voter abroad will not even know what is the reason why he suddenly does not receive electoral material anymore, and before he manages to inform the diplomatic or consular representation abroad, he will already be late for the elections. In the view of New Slovenia, electoral rights, which is a fundamental political right under our Constitution, are not allowed to be restricted for any reason, not even for reasons of austerity. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not be supported by the law on registering electoral rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you, too. The following is Dr. László Göncz, who will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on registering electoral rights intends to give effect, inter alia, to the principle of the use of accurate data in the register of electoral rights, in order to address the shortcomings of the legislation in force, both for financial and rational reasons. However, there is also a proposal for a law to comply with the EU Council Directive, as has been pointed out several times. In the position of our parliamentary group, I will therefore focus mainly on the part or articles relating to the register of electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. We must stress that the competent ministry has in due time included the representatives of both communities in the drafting of the text of the bill. The cooperation was correct. As a result, this specific area in the law is partially upgraded. In particular, the status and functioning of the Commission of the Self-Governmental National Community and the Roma Community for electoral directories, or the recording of the electoral rights of citizens of the Italian or Hungarian national communities, as well as of the Roma community, are properly and more specifically defined. In the preparatory phase, the national communities highlighted, inter alia, the difficulty of informing those members who had reached the age of 18 between the two electoral terms, of which the communities had not been informed so far, which was a problem in supplementing the special electoral directories. This problem is bridged by the proposed law, since the competent ministry will be obliged at any time to provide information to the committee responsible for the electoral directories of the national community at its request. These committees, which will act on the basis of a proposal for a law with a five-year mandate, together with the competent administrative unit, are the body that determines the correctness of the electoral directory. The fifth paragraph of Article 28 of the draft law provides that if the Commission for Registration of the Election Rights of Italian or Hungarian National Communities members finds a non-conformity of the data, the request for correction shall be sent to the administrative unit responsible for keeping the register of electoral rights. The administrative unit shall introduce any correction not later than 15 days before the vote in the electoral directory. Other electoral activities that make sense in this law are more or less properly regulated, except for one matter. Now I'm moving on to what the problem is. In article 12 of the bill, it is questionable, from the point of view of the national communities, to regulate the determination of the election rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the indigenous Italian national community, because the drafter of the law, referring to the Constitutional Court decision of 12 February 1998, which stated that the criteria under which the nationals belong to the indigenous national community should be determined, are legally defined, in the second paragraph of the draft law of the hearing, despite the unanimity of the opinion of the national communities, that the electoral right of a member of the national community should be determined in particular on the basis of the following: "Keeping a long, lasting and lasting relationship with his community, ensuring that everything is preserved, which establishes the common identity of the individual community, including their culture or language, and the related links to another knee in line with a citizen who has already been recognised as an electoral right of a member of the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community." We believe that the proposed option can be questionable for several reasons and, above all, incomplete. If, due to the legal provision, it is interpreted as some kind of pressure, it may, inter alia, have a psychologically negative effect, which is probably not in the interest of anyone, at least of the proposed law. It would be much happier if the cited section or paragraph were to be released, as the national communities also suggested in the lawmaking phase. In fact, the next paragraph of Article 12 provides that more detailed criteria for determining the voting rights of members of indigenous national communities may be laid down by the national self-government community and published in the Official Gazette and the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that such a provision would be sufficient to amend the terminator in the text as a obligation, as in the law currently in force, so that the national community is obliged to set constitutionally appropriate criteria. This would directly satisfy the decision of the Constitutional Court and would also be consistent with the constitutional provision, in view of the fact that certain State powers are transferred to the competence of the self-government national communities. This is provided for in Article 64 of the Constitution. In this case, this transfer would refer to the determination of criteria. We believe that the most important thing would be to prevent all abuses by means of the proposed law and to prepare electoral directories in the form of actually facilitating the conduct of elections. It is therefore desirable to establish the criteria to the maximum extent possible within the competent national self-government communities. Finally, I should like to say that it is likely that this content, which I have specifically opened, will be the most present at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities, because, as an interested working body, this proposal for a law on the said Commission will be considered, and I hope that together we will be able to find and find an appropriate solution. Because we hope to do so, at this stage, in the first reading or consideration, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respected and respected! During parliamentary holidays, the Government set out the text of the bill on registering electoral law and forwarded it to the National Assembly for consideration. This is mainly a technical law that provides for the maintenance of the register of electoral rights, the composition of electoral directories and the issuance of electoral cards. According to our assessment, a complete amendment to the current law was necessary, as the new proposal eliminates many of the proven shortcomings of the current regime and, above all, brings some very welcome simplifications and reduces the costs of holding elections or votes. Let me write them down. One directory shall be introduced for several electoral procedures or votes at the same time. Digital decomposition and directory storage are foreseen. Procedures for voting abroad are being simplified or the failure to send electoral material abroad to unmistakably out-of-date citizens' addresses will be suspended. It shall be possible to take a direct view of the use of the data contained in the register of electoral rights to the State Election Commission and to the electoral commissions responsible for carrying out individual elections or votes. This relieves administrative units and the Ministry of the Interior, making electoral work faster and without unnecessary correspondence between the authorities. The issuance of electoral cards by official duty is rationalised and could still be listed. It is likely that further consideration will need to discuss the provisions of the law introducing additional electoral rights for citizens, members of the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community and members of the Roma community. Any citizen who wishes to exercise electoral rights as a member of the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community or as a member of the Roma community will have to send his application together with a declaration of membership to the appropriate committee which will decide on his application. The Commission will decide on the basis of the criteria laid down in the second paragraph of Article 12. Since it has not been possible to reach agreement with both national communities – solutions opposed by the Italian national community – some coordination will be needed on these solutions. In doing so, we note that coordination will have to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the definition of these criteria. In Positive Slovenia, we draw attention to an unacceptable provision for us on costs, which stipulates that the costs of assembly and printing of electoral directories for local elections and voting at local referendums are borne by municipalities. The third article of the law, which we are considering, provides that the costs of the composition and the printing of the electoral directory shall be borne by the Ministry responsible for internal affairs, which by law is also responsible for the composition of the electoral directory, except for local elections and local referendums to be covered by the local community. We would like to point out that the electoral directories are a public document for which the State authorities or the competent ministry are responsible and that it is unacceptable for the State to charge the costs to local communities for the composition and printing of this document. That is why we expect the latter solution to be resolved. We'll support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word "magic." Katarina Hočevar, prepare Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Hello again! Since this is a technical law, I will also be very brief and concrete. Above all, I hope that, with the assistance of the Ministry and in cooperation with representatives of the national communities in the National Assembly, Article 12 will be complemented by aligning it with all stakeholders. I support this law because it is a matter of rationalisation and abandons the unnecessary procedures that have been in force so far, but I hope that we will upgrade this law once with the possibility of implementing e-elections. The Internet is increasingly present in all areas of our lives, and I am convinced that by introducing electronic elections we would take one step forward towards a more friendly public administration. If you do not know, it is by clicking on a Member – this is another project initiated by Dr. Virant, and because you do not challenge his work even in the opposition, I believe that this project will also bring him under the roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you, too. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, the ministry! Almost 13 years ago, we settled the problem of non-compliance, I believe, at the time with the Constitution, with the amendment of the Law on Registration of Election Rights. This stuff has already been consumed. In all these years, this solution, which was adopted unanimously in Parliament at the time, even with the consent of the national communities, was not problematic. What's happening with this novel is first deleting this concept. The electoral directory of nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the Italian or Hungarian national communities in the area where they live shall be drawn up by a commission of the relevant self-government national community. That's not going to happen after this marriage. I will not discuss the nature of that constitutional decision, but we all know something, and some point very much to the fact that things from the past need to be evaluated in the light of the situation they were then, and let us also consider the behaviour of an authority which was not in any way bound to respect fundamental human rights. So that anything can be excused, but I must say something, that, since the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia, its independence, and thus the determination by the most prominent international organisations, from the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc., has started with the continued pervasive harassment of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, as demonstrated by all the proposals that have been made by the legal governments of the time, and which have to be continuously integrated or corrected in accordance with the Constitution, and which has also been demonstrated by the full range of constitutional complaints against all the fundamental rights enshrined in Article 64 and Article 11 of the Constitution – the position of the language and role of these communities. That was systematic. When this complaint was lodged in 1995, there was then a public debate, one of the first public debates before the Constitutional Court, as far as I recall. In this public debate, the complaint from the complainants was still widespread. It took the Constitutional Court three years to issue this decision, which was considered to have been Solomonic by the complainants at the time. They well knew what was hidden in the fact that the criteria for determining the nationality of certain people should be included in the law. As far as I can tell, we will be the only ones in the democratic world who will have the criteria for determining belonging — who? Italians from Slovenia, Hungary from Slovenia and Roma from Slovenia. We do not have one law, which in general – because it is absurd – determines what it means to belong to a Slovenian nation or any nation in the world. And there's no state! Let's say that the civilized world gave up such matters at least, say, on May 9, 1945. It's something that puts the national community in some strange perspective. If they are deprived of this autonomy when it comes to judging who is a member — regardless of the fact that we all know each other, that there has never been abuse before. In Italian, it would say "accanimento burocratico" – some bureaucratic feast, bureaucratic insistence on one matter that again questions our role, stay and normality in this country. The normal approach would be for the law to say that criminal attempts to abuse an entry into this directory are criminal. But there will obviously be some discussions to open. I personally believe that if any of us went to the European Court of Human Rights, that part of the decision of the Constitutional Court would fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, and he needs to prepare himself for the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I support this law and I think it is suitable for further consideration. However, I would like to point out three things related to the issue of the exercise of electoral rights from abroad by post or in diplomatic and consular offices. First of all, it is the issue of those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have permanent residence in Slovenia or who have permanent residence abroad and who, following the 2006 novel, are automatically sent electoral material to an address that either they or members of their family have written or notified to the appropriate diplomatic and consular representation or to the District Election Commission and the State Election Commission, which runs the data for them. These people are in some way placed in a privileged position vis-à-vis other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who also work abroad. I'll tell you who I think. They are privileged to receive electoral material automatically. If electoral material is returned twice in a row to either the District Electoral Commission or the State Election Commission, and the material says that such a person is unknown, no longer lives on this title and so on, then this electoral commission stops automatically sending electoral material. This does not mean that, as some colleagues have said today, it has been erased in any way. This only means that he owes and has plenty of time — because the elections do not go on — so that he or his family can communicate in a year or two about where he is, where he has moved, whether he has died, or something like that. If the material comes back twice in a row, it doesn't automatically send it any more material, but it stays in the electoral directory, which is essential. It is not deleted, but remains in the electoral directory maintained either on the DKP in the country where it lives or in that country which is responsible for the place of its permanent residence. What this law now expects is a trifle of active citizenship, and that is to tell someone where this citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is, where he has moved to, which country and where his permanent address is, where he will then be sent such material automatically again. I draw attention to this category of people with a special purpose, because I would like to say that we have another group of people abroad, including Slovenian soldiers and soldiers, police and police officers and civilian experts on international operations and missions. These are the citizens who have been sent by our country with an order to work abroad to perform tasks on behalf of our country in an international operation, but are expected to be sent or requested by them before sending electoral material to them. These people who have been sent abroad are in a worse position than those who are our citizens and live, perhaps for many years, somewhere abroad, and want to exercise their electoral rights in Slovenia. Those who have been sent by the State to pursue its interests are in a worse position because they have to be notified in advance to the District Electoral Commission, where they are and where they should be sent this electoral material. I also point out this because it often happens that they work in such parts of the world, where our diplomatic-consular offices have difficulty covering the elections. In the past we have, and still have today, areas such as Afghanistan, Chad, Lebanon, possibly in the future of Syria and so on, where it will not be so easy to have a diplomatic-consular representation at the back of the elections. In practice, I know that the National Election Commission, in agreement with the Slovenian police and the Slovenian army, always ensures that these soldiers and police officers receive adequate electoral material, but it has already happened in the past, because they were at the very moment when they had to be informed where they were, at some exercise or on some duty, and it has happened that the whole units have not been able to tell them where to send electoral material. I am not talking about this in order to supplement the law, but I would like the relevant institutions, either the District Electoral Commission or the State Election Commission, to always have before these people in the future and to ensure that their electoral rights are assured or that they are allowed to be realized. These are usually our very active citizens, who are more or less always taking part in the elections. The third thing I would like to point out is the fact that we expect our citizens abroad to exercise their electoral rights through appropriate diplomatic-consular representation or by mail if they want to send the material back by mail. If they want to exercise this right through the DKP, however, when we very easily close diplomatic and consular representations in the foreign policy of this country, we should also consider this part of the obligations the DKP has and ensure that, if the DKP is abolished in a country, diplomatic and consular representations are removed, that tasks related to the electoral rights of citizens living in that country are transferred to relevant Slovenian societies, and these Slovenian societies are then concerned with the renewal of the data. This would then allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Homeland to become more closely connected with Slovenian societies abroad, while at the same time it would also be more complete with this manna, which slowly emerges when, due to austerity measures – sometimes it seems quite uncritical to close the DKP abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, but I don't see him in the hall. That is why Mr Jožef Jerovšek is the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Today, when we consider a set of laws on electoral law, including the Law on Registration of Election Law, we are more discussing, I am more aware, even from the debate that these laws do not meet the standards we expected. I am disappointed to hear that even the national minority community has not reached agreement on how best to ensure that national communities do not feel discriminated against. But I am also getting the very last day of mail, where our citizens, including from abroad, warn me that again it has not been done that our citizens, especially in remote destinations, could participate in elections and actively participate in the choice of power, parliament, which is their right, and we should all be grateful that, for example, in some Argentina, they have maintained genuine patriotism, belonging to that country for so long, but this also appears to be with these elections and this record of electoral rights will not happen. It seems unheard of to me that in all elections we find extremely low electoral participation of Slovenian citizens living in foreign countries who have moved once but feel Slovenian and have Slovenian citizenship. That's for sure, that's how they write me, part of a planned policy. The Left was afraid of these citizens all the time, from overseas countries. Unlike neighbouring Croatia, which could organise its diaspora to participate actively, Slovenia cannot and has failed. Now, after some warnings, I see that it is once again so much so that voters from Serbia will be more likely to vote, because there are Slovenian citizens who moved there in the time of the former socialist state and stayed there, there have descendants, and that electoral body is the majority vote of the Slovenian left party. It is now counted that this part of the electoral body, the Slovenian diaspora, decides the election. We know that this has somehow been reversed in the past, in recent elections, and I must say that I am critical of the fact that it is said that it is being rationalised, that everything is being simplified, that there is obviously also some discrimination and that it is not desirable for all Slovenian citizens, wherever they live, to have the same access to elections, and that things really simplify, to allow this access. It is clear that once again citizens in overseas countries should not participate in elections because of their majority political orientation in order to have a very sophisticated way of influencing the outcome of the elections. I have to say, it seems to me, when I hear members of the national community, that some things have gotten worse. I must say that it was probably a political thought, that this is happening, and that some Slovenian citizens who keep their reputation in overseas countries with exceptional love, exceptional belongings – despite the fact that most of their former communist homeland has literally rejected and expelled them. But they preserve Slovenia's membership and should be given positive discrimination after this salary. Thus, in some ways, negative discrimination is sustained, which is unheard of. Are we aware that such elements are embedded in this legislation, or are we sending what message in these difficult times when young people migrate for economic reasons?Oh, my God! It's already thousands of people who are forced to move out. And what a journey these people take to the world when they hear such things! Does the state realize that these people can be the easiest prey for a fifth column abroad if they leave, by going anyway because of what has happened in the Slovenian economy and Slovenian banks – this robbery, the tycoonisation that has brought them into perspective. Under such circumstances, economic emigration must go to foreign countries where they will not be able to use their colleges at first and all because this will not be recognised because they will only have to apply! At the same time, they leave with a traveller that the diaspora for the Slovenian political authorities, when left in power, is rejected that it is undesirable. What does this politically mean for the next generation? God forbid that the entire world’s political upheaval should come again, so that the cards can be mixed up again. Where are these people going to land?Oh, my God! Like the previous generations of diaspora, will immigrants who are natives, even though they were stepmothers, forgive everyone and live with a Slovenian heart abroad? Will they still be able or willing to do so today? I would recommend that this authority begin to respect Slovenian citizens wherever they are in the world, especially those abroad who have been led by a tragic situation so far that they are there instead of being invited to take the most appropriate approach to decision-making in this country. By means of their votes, we will also have positive legislation in this country, which will at least allow the descendants of the Slovenian family to return to this country in the future. For we must build this homeland together, not separate them and send them negative messages from the womb! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Kunic, I have noticed your desire for a reaction, but I remind you that you have only a procedural proposal, not a replica, because you have not discussed it. Thanks for understanding. The next debater could be Mr Borut Ambrožič, but I do not see him in the Chamber. That is why Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor and Mrs Sonja Ramšak is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you, Chairman. I'll take into account my colleague Matjaž Han's wishes, and I'll be brief. It is true that this is a technical law because the applicants say that they are moving in time and that things have changed since 2002 and 2006 when this legislation has changed. That's to say hello. I hope that the country will also follow these new information solutions in other areas. I know that a few years ago there was a very strong debate within Slovenian municipalities that each individual from home could regulate all matters. I believe that this law is one of those advanced things with which Minister Virant all the time, I would say, amuse the Slovenian public, that we will be able to vote from the chair one day and we can change our minds every minute until we have finally pressed a key for which we will vote. I agree with the proponents that the law brings about some rationalisation, but, as you know, in such technical laws, which mainly touch certain legal norms and personal data, the devil is always in detail. I must say that I have read with interest the goals and principles of the law, which are read very well. I believe that, above all, the National Elections Commission will be more deeply concerned with them before the first next elections to be held. It is said that these are elections to the European Parliament, and this law is also very much affected by these elections. I believe that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly will also review this act very thoroughly. I must say that when I make a final decision on the support of individual articles of this law, it will lead me to the direction that will lead to my decisions, in particular the Legislative and Legal Service. I believe that, as is customary – and here I will give her the right informational authority, given that it is the area of electoral directories and electoral rights records, or she looks into the electoral directory, she walks very carefully through the law and tries to make it as lifelike as possible. I'm saying life, not political. It is necessary to keep records, especially when we get to know our citizens, whether they are in place or in overseas countries, because in the past we have met that one vote, even if it is a voice from abroad, can decide individual elections. I hope that we will not meet in any subsequent elections, despite this law, despite the fact that it brings some information solutions, some rationalisation, because a Slovenian citizen abroad has not received a voter card in due time, he has decided to vote either to his candidate or to his candidate to the detriment of it. I think the law is necessary, but, as I have already said, in these laws the devil is in detail, and in its decisions in the follow-up procedure of the bill will lead my opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I believe that the Government will probably take advantage of this interim time, perhaps to keep an eye on this law again, and that we will make this law truly lifelike, but not to complicate it with various personal or other details of this electoral record and electoral directory. At first reading, I think the law is very correctly written, very substantive. At the second reading, we will see what will be said by those who deal with it daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you, too. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor and Mr Jože Tanko is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! As my predecessor has already said, this is an extremely important law for the exercise of both active and passive electoral rights. It's basically a technical law. As I have also faced the central population register in the past as part of my practice, I think that this is one of the key issues – data collection and that these data are as up-to-date as possible. In doing so, I would point out, which I am already here in the Chamber more often than on the home boards themselves, that the connection between different databases is also very important. I hope that we will finally come to the database in Slovenia once, which will cover all the data, and that the remaining beneficiaries will then be able to access this base at the national level, and that we will also ensure that the content and composition of the electoral rights records can be updated more. As far as the composition of the electoral rights record is concerned, I might point out that we see in the law how data are obtained and kept records. However, I would like to know what the Ministry foresees in the field of informing citizens and citizens of the need to report any change to the competent ministry or administrative units. It seems to me much more important to deal with the fact that citizens and citizens will be aware of what their rights are and what their duties are. When we are talking about ensuring electoral rights for citizens living outside the borders of Slovenia, I would say that maybe we could use this right here to introduce an electronic way of elections. A citizen who comes to the administrative unit will check out here because he will have a permanent residence abroad and will automatically be able to express whether he wants electoral material sent to him if it is in classical form or to ensure that he can exercise active or passive electoral rights in this way. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. With regard to the register of electoral law, it seems to me that, above all, in the field of Slovenian voters who vote abroad, we have not done enough in these years. It is probably too little to consider that some voters are quite far from consular networks. They live in countries, with some enormous. This contact between the exhibition or the DKP or the consulate and their home – in some cases these distances are enormous, and probably these people, even if they have been abroad for longer, move abroad or are descendants of persons who have gone, say, at the turn of the century or since 1945, are difficult to register as voters. Probably not a lot of communication within societies or anything we have organized or here or in those units. I think that the country should pay significantly more attention to those citizens abroad. After all, this is not only about those voters or voters being local or national in the elections, but it may be possible to engage in a number of other activities. I don't think it's good for the state to miss this kind of opportunity. Sometimes, as we follow these discussions in the National Assembly, we feel that we are paying much more attention to, say, other groups of people, including those who come to Slovenia and receive status, such as persons in transitional homes, asylum homes and so on. Here I note that some political groups are extremely committed to these people. On the other hand, we do not show sufficient interest in people who are our citizens who are our blood. I am also in favour of helping all those who find themselves in difficulty – there is no problem in this part – but I think we must also enable those who are not so directly within our grasp to become more active voters. My fellow Members also made some suggestions on how to make certain improvements in this area, and I think that if the law were to be supported below, these proposals would be taken into account and incorporated into law. Some may be able to be used as a test model as a test case if we want to upgrade the exercise or exercise of electoral rights. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you, too. The next one has the word Dr. László Göncz, and the mag is prepared. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I would like to start by thanking those who have also touched on the issues of indigenous national communities in this law in their debates or positions, and more or less to express their willingness to build on them in the course of dealing with this law in the workplace or to the last reading from this point of view. At the same time, I stress once again that we have found a common language in certain issues, and this encourages me to assess that we can also find solutions to the most complex issue now, from our point of view, this is a question of criteria. I will not go into this problem in depth today, but I would expect that this issue and these tasks will be dealt with in the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution, because if we read what is said in the informal work, what the Slovenian Constitution says, then I do not think there should be complications in this matter. I do not like to comment on such or other decisions of the Constitutional Court. I do not want to comment on the decision that came about 16 years ago, but I believe that, from a substantive point of view, the sentence must be considered when, to some extent, it is conditionally proposed that the matter be settled. As I have already said in my view, such an interpretation can also be based on the specific provision of Article 64 of the Constitution to transfer this right to national communities, since it can also be conferred on them with competences under national jurisdiction. I believe that a compromise is possible and I expect that, within the framework of the Commission for the National Communities and on the home working body, and also in informal discussions, a suitable solution will be found by then. I express my maximum willingness to cooperate as far as the Hungarian national community is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you. In the past parliamentary practice, as far as I am following it, it has always happened that if the members of both national communities were not satisfied with any proposed solution, there was an acceptable solution to be found in the procedure below. This is also how I understood Dr Lászl Göncz that both Members and the two Communities have expressed this willingness and that there are no options for an appropriate solution. But there's something else I'd like to point out. When we entered the European Union, we adopted some standards. If we believe that we should only think about our own problems, our own provenances, and people, it is our commitment to care for those people we call migrants, and in this regard also to deal successfully with what we call international protection. That's why I don't make a difference here. But I think it's something else that's very important. When we talk about when mail can reach people who have Slovenian citizenship and would like to participate in elections, they are uninformed, in remote places and so on – the problem I see is that elections are time-bound. Like the call for elections, and the call for elections, all electoral matters are ongoing and the deadlines cannot be extended or otherwise set for them. But I think it's a depressed debate that our internally distinctly parliamentary, folklore, ideological debates about who is more inclined to someone are also moving into a law that is of a technical nature. In fact, if someone is talking about who has and who does not love one of those who live in other countries, then it is important to say that, in addition to those who have left the country or have to leave for political reasons, very many displaced persons are also for economic reasons. I do not see the basis in the law for sharing members with Slovenian citizenship, but in a foreign country they are inhabited, on this principle left-right, which we like to do. I'd like to add something here. As far as I am monitoring the results of the elections, votes from abroad at least at the general level have never significantly affected the electoral results. Saying someone's afraid of someone is really inappropriate. However, I would expect those who wish to take part in political decisions in the country to live in this country, but do not live to do at least enough to communicate the necessary information, after which electoral commissions at State or at any other level may carry out all the procedures necessary to enforce this very important human right, that is to say, the exercise of active and passive electoral rights. I think that what we have just talked about can be improved even further in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you, too. I'm asking if maybe the government wants to add something to this debate. Here you go, Mr. Chief, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u154	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, thank you sincerely on behalf of the Government for all the comments, suggestions, suggestions and criticisms of this law. All that you have said today will be thoroughly examined in the next process. We will also have further discussions with representatives of both communities, although I must say that we have had two, three very quality meetings, quality talks. We are convinced that, as it is now written, it is right – that the decision of the Constitutional Court is also taken into account. However, as it is said, there is an absolute readiness here for further discussion and an attempt to clarify these issues and find common solutions. On the issue of failed shipments. Also, given that it has been repeatedly exposed in the debate, we will look again with you and the experts. But I must say in particular, I must stress that no one loses the right to vote because of this. It is only that we must not only be rational, but also that, as Mrs Ramšak mentioned, the expression or need of an electoral beneficiary to make an effort to express her will after the vote. Maybe even Professor Dr. Yelušič's proposal. We will also consider this, although I must say that in our view this issue is adequately addressed in the Elections Act of the National Assembly. We'll take a look, see what else can be arranged to make it easier for soldiers, officers on missions to exercise their electoral rights. As far as the information officer is concerned. The information officer became thoroughly aware of this law and welcomed it. She also welcomed the solutions outlined or proposed in the law. We will also actively include in the next process its comments, the suggestions it will have on this text and the possible additions and amendments, as so far. Mrs Ramsak warned that consideration should be given to how to raise awareness among citizens. Absolutely. What the Ministry can do here, the state – we warn every citizen. When it comes to regulating changes in residence, it is aware of all possibilities. We also invite him to report all changes, status changes and so on. We are also trying to arrange communication, which was also mentioned in the debate. There's a range of options about that. As far as the ministry and state authorities are concerned, we will certainly do so in the future. Maybe at the end of the day just e-elections. This is definitely one of the challenges, one of the projects for the future. I hope that this future is not too far off or I hope it is very close. In doing so, we must ensure all standards. This is mainly about security, data protection, preventing possible abuses and so on. It takes some time, a great deal of expertise, and, as it is said, I am sure that these elections are not far off. So many perhaps, very briefly, some comments on your suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you, too, to the Secretary of State. I note that the time for discussion has not yet run out, so I ask if anyone wishes to discuss the matter further under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[He does.]] I invite you to report for discussion for the rest of the time. Mr. Joseph Kunic, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was encouraged by the debate on elections abroad. I am aware that the proposaler had a hard time choosing solutions. In fact, at first glance these elections are simple, but in practice they seem very difficult and somewhat complicated. We hear many times from the natives and from the Slovenians around the world that we want to vote, but when the elections come, participation is much more modest than we expect. Diplomacy has the highest and most important work in this regard. To think that one side and the other are forcing the other side is slightly wrong, unreal. I have witnessed many such elections myself, and I can say that all of us diplomats have worked hard and are still trying to be as involved as possible today. However, there is something else we must say. I understand the proposer that after two shipments, the third shipment is no longer being sent. In fact, many do not want to receive such shipments. We have had many protests, if you ask us and follow us, we are citizens of this country, we love here – although Slovenians, honest Slovenians, are very interested in our reality and want to be our citizens. So this problem is complex. I think that every thought about the fact that one or the other diplomat was forcing one or the other is just drowning and there is not a bit of truth in this. They all tried. The main animation of them is diplomats or diplomats. Everyone was trying to make the participation as large as possible. I think the proposaler here has proposed a good solution. They will continue to think and seek better solutions. But I stress, diplomacy has worked very hard, it's trying. As far as I know the composition of the present diplomats who have gone abroad, they will certainly not be able to report that they are forcing more lefts than rights. That would be a complete lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the time frame of the assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 1850.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u158	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Political Parties Act is suitable for further consideration. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the Group? Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you, Madam President. We will not support this decision in the parliamentary group. In his discussions, the Minister was very modest or did not give any serious substantive answers to our questions raised, and we think that this law leads the political parties' policy in the wrong direction. It refers to the Greek's findings, but the Minister has decided to arrange for the financing and supervision of the party, and this will probably be the most likely thing for him to do for the political parties to shut down the tent, and for that part of the financing that will remain, the Minister will dispose of his responsibilities by transferring it to the National Assembly and then probably pointing together with the Government to the Members and to the Members' groups, if, see, Members cut their own pieces of cakes and he himself will have a clean conscience. The part of the funding that will remain on the local self-government is quite controversial, because in each of the 212 municipalities, while we still have it, is a different political relationship, and this political relationship can also be used by the mayors through funding for their mixing and nesting on their county chairs. We do not agree that the law seeks to prohibit the financing of parties by legal persons. We believe that the current provisions say that funding is not possible through state-owned enterprises – we seriously wonder who will even want to work in political parties, especially who will want to cooperate with political parties. The minister considers himself rather liberal or thinks he is even a very liberal minister, but he has very restrictive and non-liberal methods of work. We believe that financing for political parties would be much more free than in the bill. We also do not agree with the change in the criteria for the allocation of funds from the State budget. Here we get the feeling that the minister has written the law according to the size of his party and with the assistance of the currently largest parliamentary party. We must be aware that all those parties who have been on the political scene for more than 20 years or 20 years – this will be avenged. The Minister, who has been with his client for two years, wants to be stronger and smarter than all those who have been active in the political scene for 20 years, and we do not agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary groups? In your own name? If not, then we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. The bill will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections and Referendums is suitable for further consideration. I ask if anyone wishes to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you. Very briefly. This law brings a number of positive solutions, especially that the law also follows the Constitutional Court's decision to publish public opinion surveys, but it is obvious, on the other hand, that a minister as president of a younger party is not yet involved in this electoral and referendum story. We believe that such a proposal of the law before us is going to do exactly the opposite of what the Minister affirms. The Minister says that the financing of electoral campaigns will be more transparent, but with such a bill he will make an even bigger mine in the area of funding electoral campaigns. We propose to the Minister that, until the second hearing, he should take a thorough look at the position of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which has made its views very clear. The Minister also adapted these views or recommendations to his image and to his client. If this goes on, we will not support this law further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-27-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The bill will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill on Registration of Election Rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The bill on registering electoral rights is suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The bill will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 17th session of the National Assembly. Have a nice weekend!
