ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the continuation of the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Iva Dimic from 16:00 on and Mr Dragutin Mate. I welcome everyone here. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We shall continue to discuss the amendments tabled in the specific part of the Draft amending budget to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 9. 11. 2013 We continue with the budget user 1714 – Police and the debate on the proposed amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of the SLS Group to the sub-programme Criminal activities. I give the floor to the second speaker to yesterday's debate on the subject of the amendments to Mrs Sonji Ramsak. She's not in the hall yet. Since it is not yet in the Chamber, I ask because it is possible to discuss whether anyone else wants to discuss it. I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. Whenever new taxes are adopted in this National Assembly, existing ones are raised when various contributions are increased, when measures are taken to rehabilitate the banking system with taxpayers' money, do not forget to mention in the same breath how it will be cleared with the past and before the time of justice all those who have robbed this country and caused the situation that we are in today. Believe me, as a representative of the younger generation, who is absolutely nothing to blame for this situation, but who at the same time bears the greatest burden of this situation, I would very much like to see all those who, because of their greed and self-interest, take decisions to the detriment of this country and all of us, are responsible for their actions. We can certainly agree that Slovenia and all of us who live in this country need this satisfaction to be accountable to all those who have taken away any euro that did not belong to them and brought us into a state that we are in and from which we are not likely to get out so quickly. But the view of the numbers in the budget raises doubts as to whether your intentions to really clean up this past are real, whether it is merely a comfort to people when they accept ever-new burdens. We're not going to hunt bad guys like that, so we're going to cut the police's funds to a minimum, so they don't even have gas. Bastards get caught by making it possible for the one who's chasing the bastards to have the best working conditions. That is why we have also proposed this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party, with which we are increasing funding in the area of police criminal activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Economic Cooperation and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Slovenia is a small open-ended export-oriented economy. The success of Slovenian companies depends largely on how successfully our companies will penetrate foreign markets, sell their products and services there. Especially in these times, when the decline in the available income of the population in terms of purchasing power, including domestic consumption, requires even more intensive activity in foreign markets to maintain existing production capacities and jobs. Economic diplomacy as an aid in promoting exports, entering into new business abroad and presenting the Slovenian economy to foreign partners has an important role to play in this regard. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want to strengthen economic diplomacy by means of the proposed amendment, with a reduction in resources under the Rule of Procedure of the General Secretariat of the Government. A strong and successful economy is certainly a better promotion for the country than a good caviar and expensive champagne.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Thank you. Someone else wants to discuss the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 1912 – the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection and rescue and assistance and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report with debate. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Budget or budget each time, the budget balance is a reflection of the Government's priority. And Minister Jakič, Minister of Defence, has decided to delete in this budget one of the items for voluntary firefighters, for voluntary firefighters. We are talking about the item of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue – co-financing the purchase of equipment for voluntary firefighting companies. We're talking about a so-called VAT refund. This measure was introduced in 2003 as a corrective measure, as a bonus for firefighters operating a general rescue service in Slovenia. See, from 2008 or until 2008, there were no problems with the budget with money on this item. From 2008 onwards, the item or, I will say, items on the system of protection and rescue have been reduced. Every year it fell, from 30 million to 29, to 26, to 25, and now we're coming for next year's number 20. 20 million will be just money for the security and rescue system. We are talking about the integral part of the budget. Look, I understand and we also understand in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is a crisis and that there is no money, but if we take these four million, as foreseen in the balance sheet, or 2 million, such as the difference between the current budget and the next year's balance, I don't think security will be any more. One of the most important values of an individual in a civilized world is a sense of security and this is all the more important in times of crisis. Firefighters risk their health, risk their lives and it is not right that the item of co-financing of the purchase of firefighting equipment for voluntary firefighting companies is completely deleted. The funds were already falling. In 2011, there was a million €600,000 on this item; 2009 – around a million; now 900, 960 000; and this year, in some ways 900 000 euros to co-finance the purchase of equipment: rescue and protective equipment for voluntary firefighting companies. Now the minister has decided that this item will be no more. So firefighters, voluntary fire companies will no longer receive subsidised VAT, VAT refund for the purchase of equipment in the past year. To know what we are talking about — that is, to co-finance the acquisition of fire protection equipment. See, this is done on the basis of, it is co-financing, a call is made and those who have purchased equipment in the past year are then reimbursed for this VAT. And now imagine all those fire companies that bought equipment this year. They were counting on this VAT refund. This item is no longer in the budget next year. She's gone. And this money will no longer be given to these firefighters or volunteer firefighters. That's unacceptable. But Minister, it's not the only thing that happened in this budget on the system of protection and rescue. Funds for co-financing the activities of associations and institutions shall also be reduced. By 7%, these funds are being reduced so that you know who they're reducing their funds for. For the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, for the Mountain Rescue Union of Slovenia, the Jamarski zavezbe Slovenije, the Red Cross of Slovenia, the Diving Union of Slovenia, the Union of Camporniks of Slovenia, the Cinological Association, the Union of Rescue Dog Guides, the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters and so on. See, the resources they receive from the state budget represent 75% of all the resources they have for their work. And now they're taking up 7%. And to continue what happens to this budget balance with the proposal for a rebalancing of Minister Jakic. See, co-financing of the activities of fire-fighting units of wider importance is reduced by 10%. For 10 %. The funds for the acquisition of additional personal and group equipment for members of the fire brigades that transfer in tunnels shall be reduced. I understand. It's a crisis. But if someone was monitoring the daily news shows yesterday, where they were telling you how many volunteer firefighters were on the ground yesterday. Remember the big fires, I'll just mention something. At Kranj, Hrastje, Domžal, Trzin, in fact in Mengš and so on. Who do you think intervened there? That's when the firemen come in. And honourable Members, do not allow funds to be taken from voluntary firefighting companies, do not allow funds to be taken from units of wider importance and do not allow funds to be taken from organisations, societies and institutions involved in the general rescue service. It's simply unacceptable. I think the time has come when we Members and Members – the Minister has already said how he designed this budget, so that he will take the means – I think the time has come for us to say at this point is enough. The protection and rescue of money has been sufficient in recent years, since 2008 and until now. But no minister dared to delete the line entirely. Delete all items for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment for voluntary fire-fighting companies. Nothing, there is nothing in this budget or in this balance sheet and in the 2015 budget. If we're left with this $3.4 million cut, I think we're going to be trespassing on the rescue and security equipment program. Resources for training and education are also being reduced and the system is being created as such. Another reason to oppose this is security. This co-financing system for the purchase of firefighting equipment for voluntary firefighting companies was also a guarantee for the purchase of safe equipment, certified equipment, because otherwise the firefighting company could not participate in the call for these assets. What happens now? No one will have control of this equipment anymore, and now the fire company will be able to spend as much money as they will from the citizens of the country. And the purchase of equipment, I suppose, will be cheaper, uncertified. What are you gonna say when some fireman gets hurt when he uses uncertified equipment? And that is, dear colleagues and colleagues, unacceptable and I think it is right to reconsider this amendment, regardless of the Slovenian Democratic Party's submission, to take it as an amendment to all Members and Members and return these three million to the voluntary firefighters, to all the units that are saving the tunnels, the education system and to all those who help us when we are in trouble. Think again very carefully before you press the "against" button on this amendment. This amendment gives firefighters. But if you keep what you are, and you will reject our amendment, then you have listened to Mr Roman Jakič's policy, which he took away from the firefighters 4 million in this budget. I'm talking about voluntary fire companies, I'm talking about a system of protection and rescue. It's not right if you don't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Thank you. It's still an interest in the debate. I invite you to report for discussion. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues and present. The amendment tabled by the SDS regarding the financing of firefighting in our country is as follows. It is with great regret that I accept the fact that it is the SDS that has proposed that the 2014 and 2015 rebalancing or budget on the Defence Committee should not be considered. That's why the board didn't have a chance to get into these things. However, as far as we understand the statements and answers to all these questions from Minister Roman Jakić, it is clear that the defence budget from around 1.47% of GDP is somehow falling to 1.2%, or 1%, respectively. This is a significant reduction in funds. This reduction also has a drastic impact on the composition of the defence budget. And not just the stuff in the content that concerns the functioning of the Slovenian Army. It is also a reduction in resources for protection and rescue. However, this reduction in assets in firefighters is not so tragic and drastic because we know that firefighting is also financed from other sources. And it's probably going to be able to fill this gap that's coming in some other way. However, it is truly art, or almost impossible to draw up a budget that reduces the total amount from 1.47% of GDP to 1% of GDP, in order for everyone to be satisfied or to have as much as is necessary. In addition, it is this minister and the defence ministry that has made a great effort to preserve the information centres, which the former government has somehow planned and planned to end. Information centres are also one of the important segments in ensuring the protection and rescue of people on the ground. Speaking of which, there are slightly less resources for the operation of fire brigades, which we believe is not good, but in the present case, it is no different because you know that there is a lot of respect and a lot of positive we have and we can talk about the operation of voluntary firefighters and firefighters in general. But in this case, the thing is that, and this is the reality that we're facing. The only thing that comforts us is that the Ministry of Defence is aware of this and that there may be some other way to make this gap feel or at least feel what it can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Well, hello, everyone! I too am joining my colleague Zanoškar's discussion. In a tight financial situation, Minister Jakič stressed in one of the public statements in connection with the meeting of the Defence Committee and in relation to the obvious, which is also subject to the proposed amendments of the SDS Group, that the key capacity of the defence system and the system of protection and resolution to ensure the security of citizens and citizens will not be jeopardised in a tight financial situation. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence is aware of the importance of the operation of protection and resolution, the operation of the security system in the Republic of Slovenia, that is, the operation of the military and all other institutions. In connection with voluntary firefighting and in connection with the amendment tabled in relation to the debate also presented, and the explanation at the 29th meeting of the Finance Committee of the previous year and Saturday, it was made clear that the funds are indeed falling, but not in this direction that any firefighting, protection and rescue in the Republic of Slovenia would be compromised. In addition, all those who were the first responsible persons for fire safety, protection and rescue in local communities in the municipalities are well aware of the important role played by municipalities, mayors, municipal councils that decide on the means to operate voluntary firefighting companies. If there's a natural disaster, like now, a storm, floods, fires, who's the one helping local communities? First up are our neighbors, firefighters. There's almost no area, not even those who live in the countryside, so they don't have people who are firefighters in their villages. And it is the congregations that help finance the operation of voluntary fire companies. I don't want anyone to think I'm talking about it. A few weeks ago, I attended one of the events in the area where I came from. The firefighters pointed out that in the given situation we are very well aware that we too will have to endure in some way and that maybe some vehicle will not be bought this year, it will not be bought the second year, but it is only right that we have voluntary firefighting societies to support that most urgent equipment that we need when we save people's lives when we save people's assets when we help people with natural disasters. And at this point, that sufficientness, that measure is assured. Therefore, we do not endanger the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we provide protection and rescue, fire safety and therefore we cannot support this amendment at this time. It is, however, the fact that with this voluntary firefighting in the Republic of Slovenia we still give important weight, respect; and the local community – I have talked to several mayors about it now – the main thing is that firefighting does not reduce resources. In contrast to district fire liaisons, they talk, coordinate and only reduced funds to some extent, but at this level, to the extent that firefighting associations have agreed and firefighting companies have allowed this to happen. We can act in the direction that this amendment may also be liked, of course it is also needed. Those who have ever been mayors and mayors in the local communities know that. However, it was interesting to hear from colleagues when they were in the government and the information centres, such as the large region of Dolenjska, Bela Krajina and Posavja, in the New Town, which is the large economic centre of South-Eastern Slovenia, decided and stopped the night shift and moved to Posavje, by recording in the national national security plan, in the event of an accident at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the centre for informing Posavje – a night shift – moved to Novo mesto. How would you move if the night shift in the New Town had been canceled? And Minister Roman Jakič did the first thing – he returned night shifts to information centres, both in New Town, both in Zasavje, both in Ptujska and elsewhere in Slovenia. These are also measures, not large amounts, but I do not know why the previous government has decided to do so. Let us be correct, in the given circumstances, firefighters want adequate equipment to be provided, even if they have some less resources for a year and there will have to be some vehicle for a year longer in use. I cannot support this amendment, but I support firefighting, and I am also a member of the oldest Slovenian fire company Metlik and with a fire-fighting greeting "to help".
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u11	There's a replica, and there's a desire for a debate. But first, a replica of Mr. Robert Croat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Renata Brunskole! Now people have got the feeling that you're supporting the amendment, as if you were to get these three million back to the Protection and Rescue Board. But in the end, you said that you would not support this amendment. You mentioned the SDS twice. If the problem is that the SDS candidate is, I don't know, let's just forget about it and accept it. If that were true what you have just said, then there would be no voluntary firefighting associations in Slovenia, all those operating in the protection and rescue system, and this was not just one, there were more where clear positions were taken. The position of the Association of Fireworks of Slovenia, but unfortunately no media has said this, and neither have we had the opportunity to tell you. Information centers, there's too many. You can say what you want, and I'm talking to you as an expert in this area: for 10 years I worked as a firefighter at the fire department, 35 years I've been a volunteer firefighter, a vice president of the fire department, and I know how these things are served. There's too many information centers. Too much. As far as the funds are concerned. I'll just say it like this: it's important that the soldiers have a safe head to buy those helmets and we forget about the firefighters. And that's not right. I would understand that the funds are falling, but your Minister Jakič has done that the whole item that has so far been a practice in Slovenia – it is a VAT refund, it is a means returned to the state budget, which is given to firefighters to thank for doing this human work – you delete it. No more Euros will be for voluntary fire companies, and that is the problem. And that is all we want – let's get these funds back to voluntary firefighting companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u13	Thank you. Since there was still an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply for a debate. I also advise because we are in such a stage of debate that you agree and the debate on this amendment will be easier to proceed. A representative of the Government, Minister of Defence Mr Zoran Klemenčič, spoke before I give the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u14	Well, hello, all of you! It is difficult, but I must tell you, in terms of the resources available, we had to take very balanced care of the two subsystems of national security, which, by content, are quite different: the professional army with an additional contractual reserve with its tasks; and the system of protection against natural and other disasters, which we are very proud of, because it is actually unique and based on volunteerism, in the main work of volunteering, and within this are voluntary firefighters, in fact, the backbone of this system. We have had long discussions with representatives of the Protection and Rescue Board on what to do. And their proposal was to make this decision for 2014 and 2015. The co-financing of voluntary firefighters takes place in several ways. It is true that the funds, as you said the VAT refund, are now being abolished, but the balanced and qualitative development of voluntary firefighting is also taken care of by the administration in different ways, with other measures. And volunteer firefighters know that very well. Maybe things will turn out better in the future. I'm pretty sure there's no fear of firefighters buying uncertified goods. I know them too well. As responsible as they are, they will not do this because they are aware and never think about their lives in solving, we have come together with the training system that certified equipment is essential. And so far, it is also our common assessment that it would be better if this thing continued, but that preparedness in the area of protection and rescue would not be significantly compromised. The upgrade of equipment will be somewhat delayed, but it also happens in all other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. and representatives of the government. I'll try to be very brief. I say that I will support this amendment and I think it is a shame that we are taking the budget where there is still a need to ensure greater security for our citizens. We have also heard on several occasions, when proposing the budget, that the budget is also the highest concern for citizens and also ensures the security of citizens. Given that the funds in this budget are falling precisely on those items, we are talking in particular about this amendment, where we would return the resources to the Authority for Protection and Rescue – the next amendment is also similar to the nature of the funds being taken from the area of disaster recovery, to remedy the consequences of natural disasters – so that it seems to me that they are the items that should really be kept at at least the level they were in previous budgets. I was struck by a discussion by my colleague Brunskola, who says that the local communities are also responsible for financing voluntary fire companies, for financing their equipment, for financing their rolling stock and so on. That's right. Local communities are well aware of the importance of voluntary firefighting. We know that it is voluntary firefighters who are the first to come to the rescue in the face of natural disasters. This we could have witnessed so yesterday, when many places across Slovenia were surprised by the hurricane wind that we were not talking about the fires, the serious fires that have occurred in recent days. Not to mention the many floods that threaten our country from year to year. I also agree with my colleague Brunskola that, at the moment, municipalities continue to provide such funds that municipalities do not reduce funds for the operation of firefighting companies. However, I must point out that this budget is already reducing resources for local communities. Unfortunately, the local communities will have to cut their budgets in this important area in the area of financing voluntary firefighting sooner or later. And I fear that even local communities will no longer be able to obtain emergency equipment, equipment that provides voluntary firefighters with basic security when they are placed on the ground to protect citizens or citizens. I think that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is very much in place, and I also appeal to the possibility that this amendment, which could also be supported by the coalition, is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, welcome! I think it is these days that the annual days of the catastrophic floods take place in the Republic of Slovenia, where the very voluntary firefighting companies have played a major role. Of course, these societies also need good equipment for their operations. I think that the operation of the system of protection, rescue and assistance in the Republic of Slovenia is being rescued by very voluntary firefighting companies. I don't think there's any more developed firepower than we have. There aren't so many people out there who can help their fellow man with their heart when he's in trouble when he's in danger when he's in an accident. We are earmarking €3 million for this area, and we are now putting an end to this. How many millions went to different ends, but nothing happens. And here, where people really work with their hearts, where they're threatened with their jobs, we take that money away from them. Of course I'll support this amendment. I don't think it's right that we bought, like, at this department of helmets because they're running out of time. They're not sausages or I don't know what. And we're not even in the war that we should be buying new helmets so urgently right now. And we take firefighters for what they're fighting for. There are no more traditional firejoys with which to earn some money for their operations. We also take a lot of money from congregations. How will the congregations continue to follow the fire companies? But we all work together for the good of those who are in an accident. And we're shutting down 3 million euros, as if we're already so completely in the mud – I say, according to some farm logic, we've milked the dairy cow, we've spilled the milk, and now we don't have any more money for food, and we don't have any dairy cows anymore. Let's at least give these 3 million back to the fire department! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Nice greeting, Mr. President, the rest of you are here! Yeah, that's what I'm gonna say, when both of them are somehow convincing each other, I'd pick the third option. By the way, nature gives us teeth, which it showed at my end yesterday. Who are you calling? Firefighters. Who has to go to the roof when he blows 200 an hour? Firefighters. Whether they have equipment or not, they go to the roof. Not to mention the floods on Styria last year and so forth. Because we are a society that gives very little to the values of life, we are where we are. That's a fact. And now you like to do techniques and comparisons between information centres and firefighters. I don't think there's a comparison. I know who has to save lives that moment. The information is already a cell phone, but those who will really help are firefighters, civilian protection, mountain rescue. Speaking of the Ministry, I'd like to point out two things, not that I've been waiting for the Minister to talk for two months, it's nothing new, I'm talking about double criteria. So I'm gonna walk away from the fire department. Rents for the use of a polygon – one municipality is eligible, one is not. Whoever's fast and good at lobbying gets it. In August, I received an answer here from the present secretary, quite contrary to the ZUP I received from the 9th. 10th this year, regarding the purpose and use of funds to compensate for the use of the military range. I'm talking about Bach. The Municipality of Postojna and Pivka received funds last year, but they were not called to do so. The municipality of Ilirsko Bistrica has been forgotten since 2009. And in two years, we'll forget about firefighters. But remember the word volunteering. One who works somewhere and is paid monthly for something, has some TRR and gets paid. Someone, because he was called all over Slovenia yesterday because of the hurricane storm, has trouble just being a volunteer. And the local community, it's happening to us, the country will cut off three million, the congregation won't even give medical examinations, and we're talking about volunteering. You can check these things out. That's a lot of grief. I'm talking about people going to save lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I did not intend to discuss this amendment myself, but I must say from the outset that I am absolutely in favour of this amendment, particularly because I would understand if this measure were implemented in the year or the 2015 budget, but not for 2014, because it is a tax refund from the previous year and it is a matter of things that have already been signed in the fire brigades and fire companies. So we're taking the money someone's already been informed they're gonna get. And that is why I do not understand your suggestion that the system will collapse, that the budget will be dispersed due to the three million that are earmarked as means of protection and rescue, specifically for firefighting equipment. You're the great psychiatrists here. In the case of real estate tax – it was also in the initial phase of 410 million, and in the next step, when you reduced it came to, say, 350 million and the budget did not fall. And now you're saying that we can't get $3 million for specific things and meaningful things that you all support. You all say: we were mayors, we support it, we support it. Your debate is inappropriate and beneath the level, and I believe that firefighters cannot support you in this way. See, on the other hand, you throw 50 million — the budget is changing at the moment. In this case, when you all agree that this is appropriate, you say that it is not possible to redistribute 3 million. If the money's not in the defense department, it's probably in school. And that's where you're increasing the stake for $60 million. Don't talk to people and lie to them in the face. The budget has reserves for 3 million at all times. I was also the mayor and civil protection commander, not to say that these funds are just like that. They're very important. And they were already deployed, and they were already signed. Like I said, if we saw this coming in 2015, we would understand it, not back. You retroactively take certain funds that have been earmarked. And that's not right. I appeal to you to support this amendment. Because otherwise, you're lying to yourself about not having 3 million reserves in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Thank you. Once again, there will be no mistake. Even with great respect for Slovenian firefighters, but not 3 million, 10 million. I'm in favour of 10 million next to the operation of fire companies, if that were possible. But this is not possible at this point, as we have learned. We are comforted by the fact that the Department of Protection and Rescue and the Ministry of Defence have jointly agreed on this and that there will be a prolonged dynamic of investing in new equipment. Let us hope that the time will come – very soon when this government will wish even better success than it has so far, so that we can spend more money on firefighters than is now foreseen in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Thank you. Reploco has Mr. Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u26	I'm stressing again. 2014 has already been agreed and no fire liaison and no protection and rescue has agreed to release this. That's your information, we don't have it. We also have conversations with the concerned ones, and that's not true. Once again, give this measure for 2015 when the tax has not yet been collected and intended for specific purchases. Not for 2014, where the tax from the previous year has already been distributed to individual companies and will now have a hole in that part. And don't say that local communities will just replace these missing funds. In other documents, in ZIPRO, you are reducing funds for municipalities in the budget and will also not have from this title these additional resources that they consider to be firefighting companies. And even more so, those local communities that have more natural disasters have been hit. I can tell you firsthand what that means. It is not right to say that as many local communities as possible should allocate more resources to protect and rescue. They're not all in the same position. Some have significantly more costs under this heading. It is not right that the system source, which has been designed for all these years to somehow equalize it, is now being phased out. Once again, this is 2014 where tenders, contracts and earmarkings have already been approved and we are taking funds back. That's why I think it's right that I replicated because I was misunderstood. It's not a new intervention, it's a take-back, and that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We heard an explanation of where funds are being taken. Let me say that I myself have been responsible for fire safety and firefighter for 13 years since I was 20, and I know how difficult it is to raise money for the purchase of equipment, because all fire companies are categorized, each category also has a certain type of equipment after typification. It also has an operational fire unit where it is determined how many firefighters there are and how they must be equipped. The money that the congregation receives for this equipment is from a fire tax, which is not enough in one tenth to buy the equipment that fire companies need. And given the call of firefighters from all over Slovenia for help in these ventures, the idea of getting a fishing boot company came also in my company. How are the fishing boots to put out the fires? Because they walk because they are sent all over Slovenia to help when they flood, when they save, when they help save others. But it's kind of unfair that you're taking money now that all the companies are counting on being paid VAT for this year's equipment, but it's not fair. Because of this loss of income, I don't know where they're going to cover it, maybe the congregations again. However, I tell you that we should give significantly greater importance to operational firefighters in these fire companies, because we no longer have an army to jump to help when there are natural disasters, we only have firefighters. And with such an approach, we will only endanger those operational firefighters who will go to help people without good or real equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? There is still interest, so I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly! I know damn well what firefighting means. In 2008, the storms we experienced in Slovenian Gorica and if we did not have firefighters at our disposal, the material damage would be even more catastrophic and worse, even human, and the firefighters would have stepped in. To say, Mr Secretary of State, that you will extend this for 2014 and 2015 – I agree, this is when you will no longer be the Secretary of State and Positive Slovenia in the government. Not in the government, in fact, Positive Slovenia and many others, or others, will no longer be on the political map – and so will the impossible situation. Mr Zanoškar, you said that the time will come very quickly when this will be fixed because the government will wish for even more success. Who sees these successes except Positive Slovenia and some satellites around them? This isn't the SLS opposition flyer. This is the time that has been sent to you, including the Members of Positive Slovenia, the economy. And the economy says that we have a 600% higher daily amount of outstanding liabilities in companies than in 2008. That we have 90,000 more unemployed, that by the way, the decline in investment is more than 85%. On this side, I understand the coalition, and the Secretary of State, yeah, you don't need firemen anymore. It is simply unacceptable to say that this will be passed on in the coming years. Also contracts and so on, as others have already said; it is a substitute for that VAT, but how to get to investment funds, and those who are also firefighters, we know, there are quite a few in here. I believe there are also some firefighters in the coalition, and I believe that your heart is hurting and that it will be difficult to vote against such an amendment. However, there will be no additional burden on them, in addition to all of this congregation. Since the government of Alenka Bratušek takes the municipalities – both in the case of investments in article 21 – it takes them on average and, of course, on property taxes. This means, instead of helping to obtain firefighting equipment, they will now pay tax in municipalities on the property of a primary school owned by a municipality, and a state programme is being implemented inside because it is a school, education, a basic education state programme. Three million — where is the 400 million that was so approved overnight to cover the Factor Bank and Probank? Yesterday, I was in the second official duty of the National Assembly, and then I didn't come back, but I was on TV because I was a professionally ill, but I was watching what was going on here. You know, you take these three million from those 80% of the increased investments that you've interpreted so vehemently. If we're making a fool of ourselves, please, not firefighters. And Secretary of State, if you couldn't professionally defend it, do you have anything else you need to put on the table out-of-the-way; for firefighters it will be, or I won't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? There is still interest, so I invite you to report for discussion. Procedurally, Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am making a procedural proposal. I protest at such performances by my colleagues or in this case a colleague to discuss another political party. Like, for example, Mr Franz Puksic's statement: "Positive Slovenia will no longer be on a political map." And we don't think we need firefighters anymore. Or like my friend Krivec said, "Don't talk to people and lie in the face." I believe that such an approach and such an emergence is from below the ankle, not just a level, as Mr Krivec said earlier. The Secretary of State has made it clear what this is about and that the security, protection and rescue of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will not be compromised. Please don't let your colleagues and colleagues perform so insultingly to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, a replica of the replica cannot be obtained. [[advertising in the hall]] There are no replicas on the procedural proposal either. However, it is still possible to discuss, so I see no difficulty in not being able to present my views. In fact, it is possible to state the views of each political party in this debate and to refute certain claims. However, it is appropriate to try to limit ourselves mainly to the debate. We are not trying, but let us limit ourselves to the debate on this amendment and the content of this amendment. This amendment discusses whether we will provide some means or not for protection, rescue and assistance. Please hold on to that, too. The next panellist is Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm going to talk about this amendment, and I'm not going to mention any of the parties, so there won't be any problem on my part. Indeed, in the field of firefighting, in the field of protection and rescue, the structure of their operation has certainly changed in recent decades. I see this because I myself worked in the local community years ago, even during the worst tragedies at our end and the worst elementary disasters. From then on, it appeared that the fire department, voluntary and professional, was needed — not only in fires, but more and more natural and other accidents, where the first, not only were called, were actually the first to respond to all these events. As a result, the congregations are extremely good at caring for voluntary fire companies, that is a fact. I don't know anyone who wouldn't do that. Of course, the country also has its obligations to do so. I believe that the source proposed by the SDS Group, or where it is taking money from, is probably not acceptable to finance in the situation we are in. However, the Ministry of Finance, the Government or the coalition could find a more appropriate source in designing changes to this budget if they feel that this resource is not feasible for practical reasons because domestic debt interest servicing is likely to be even more burdensome than in the budget. There's only one thing I'm going to mention. These information centres have been mentioned, which have been terminated. I don't know if any of them are new. I suppose that there may have been some sort of thing that has been done quickly and that it is necessary, many times life shows that there is also a need to make a difference in any measure. Life is running. When you do one thing, it eventually turns out that it's a little bit different in practice, and then it has to be changed. So I don't see any particular problem. However, I see a problem in another matter, on which citizens' and citizens' security is equally or even more dependent daily. Shortly after the appointment of the Minister of the Interior, Minister Virant cancelled or the General Police Administration did so — I don't know who cancelled — what some police stations did night duty or what they call a night job. Do you know what that means? This means in some areas that the police station is open, available only during the daytime, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. At night, however, when many of the events that disturb or endanger security in various areas, from traffic to other areas, police stations are closed. Not to speak in three days, a specific example: Mozire Police Station, which covers the Upper Savina Valley area, which is about 40 kilometers long, is tied to the Celje Police Station from 7 a.m. to 7 a.m. And the farthest places are 75 kilometers away from Celje. Where most people live, this distance is about 40 kilometers. This is the security or danger of the citizens and citizens we have. However, I am not sure that in this way, in the area of internal affairs or police stations, we have not worked out how many police administrations. The question is, what will be the impact in ensuring the security of citizens and citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Thank you. Before I give the word forward, I must warn you that the problem was the measurement of time. Before we continue the debate, we will try to arrange for every new time reported to be running. However, with Mr President, I estimate that he began to debate when time was available for 1 hour and 15 minutes. In his debate, he spent about 5 minutes of time held by the Slovenian People's Party. May I give the Secretary of State a word, or shall I wait? I'll wait. Thank you. Everything's ready again. The problem was the measurement of the time involved in the procedural proposal. The computer did not understand exactly what was going on with this fast regulation of communication. I think the government representative signed up for this earlier. I give the floor to Mr. Zoran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Concerning [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Mr Klemenčič has the floor. Here you go. Can you wait, they'll fix it. Mr. Klemenčič will be able to tell you something in between.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u38	About the VAT return. The Department of Protection and Rescue will settle everything signed by the end of 2013 by the end of the year. Since we are discussing the 2014 budget, I did not want to put an extra set earlier – for 2015, the funds in the budget are slightly higher than the realisation for this purpose in 2013. We have had major discussions within the Ministry on the Protection and Rescue Authority. I know it's gonna be hard because I know I've been in this system for years. Together, we came to the conclusion that we could take a one-year break in this area. It will not be easy, but in the 2015 draft budget, I apologize for the fact that we are not discussing this now, the funds are returning to a slightly higher level than will be realized in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Since I had been mentioned before, but I could not say in the replica, colleague Renata Brunskole mentioned me, although I have been really for a little while in the National Assembly, the political history dumps have already gone to Zares, the LDS, which was one of the most powerful, largest parties with 34 Members, but this is precisely because of arrogance. And since the President of the government said yesterday, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Mr. Pukšič, let me remind you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u42	I won't listen to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u43	That you're at the amendment talking about protection and rescue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Your decision is internally related to our future, and I have talked about our future, I have talked about protection and resolution, how it is incorrect to postpone it to 2014 and 2015, and of course you are doing this because you probably already know that with such arrogance you will no longer be on a political map. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Excuse me? Just a minute. Mr. Kavtičnik has the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u46	Thank you very much. This year we have also listened to the Ombudsman's Report, where we have adopted certain conclusions that we will act ethically here in order to follow the instructions of the President of the National Assembly. And today, the president of the National Assembly warned his colleague Puksic, he wanted to warn him, but he waved in a vehement and arrogant way: I will not listen to the President of the National Assembly. I think such a message to the public is inappropriate; given the manner in which it is in the National Assembly. The President, I ask you to warn the Member in question and tell him that this is not the way he behaves in the National Assembly. However, if he is prepared, we can offer him some help in advising him on his conduct and cultural conduct, especially here in the National Assembly and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Thank you, too, and I hope this has been heard. Mr. Lucky Meh, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you very much. It is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that the committee responsible has not discussed this. That's what he's worried And instead of addressing voters and voters, citizens and citizens here today – the problem on this issue is protection and resolution – we should talk about this topic on a committee where there was time, space and opportunity to talk. I am aware that this is a problem, we are aware of all those who have ever needed help. That's not how you do it, ladies and gentlemen. The debate that was held was at least very good. However, those you have not discussed in the way that it would be appropriate for Members and Members of Parliament, change your way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u49	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Moral and ethical and inappropriate speech or moral unethical and inappropriate, in addition to reducing the economy, credits when young people are "forced" from a country abroad, when you close foreign investments, and at the end, when you want to destroy voluntary Slovenian firefighting, which is based on all the tasks – from storms to floods to helping people, when in the worst troubles and voluntary firefighters are "risking" their lives as well. And you want to destroy them with this. And now, what's more moral, destroy it or alert it. Besides, help from those who were already there when I told you before, at the dump of political history, I really don't need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Well, look, Mr Pukšič, with respect for this amendment and the content of this amendment, it would be very correct to try to take into account the weight and importance of firefighting in our deliberations. We certainly do not help to do this in a way that we try to speak to each other about topics that are not directly involved in this amendment. I suggest that we take this into account primarily for the sake of respect for the fire service, if not for those who are leading the meeting of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 - Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! This is an amendment that does not affect a balanced budget. This is an amendment that transfers funds within the Ministry of the Environment. This amendment seeks to resolve the embarrassment created by the Ministry's downgrading of the "Abolition of the Consequences of Natural Disasters" from the projected 21 million to 16 million. I think that this reduction is almost 70% inappropriate. It is an area where everyone in the current reference, and even in previous references, advocates that resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in some way increase but not decrease. It is that certain measures are regulated as soon as possible on both watercourses and other consequences, with a view to reducing the damage in the next phase. Therefore, I suggest that you all consider this amendment, including in view of the daily natural disasters that afflict us. The item proposed by this amendment – this is the transfer from the item Sustainable water use and water management under the item Waste water management, where the item increases by 16 million in relation to the budget adopted, is transferred to the item Disaster mitigation. This is, in my view, an acceptable solution, because in the case of waste water management, these are projects that are being prepared and will be drawn up successfully by the end of the year, and in the event of the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, these are already signed contracts, some of the funds that have already been earmarked by local communities in certain cases for recovery. If the share of the Ministry is not secured, there will be major problems on the ground. It is a matter of halting construction sites, both in the area of overturning the consequences of floods and eliminating the consequences of a large scale. And also in the area of earthquake recovery in Posoča, to which colleague Bevk had already warned yesterday. In the event of an earthquake recovery, it is a reduction from 5 million 500 to 1 million 400, which would mean that the removal of the effects of the 2004 earthquake is halted at the moment or on Thursday when we adopt the budget. The same applies to other buildings that are connected to floods and also to matters related to the elimination of the consequences of larger-scale beaches. This would be a great embarrassment in local communities and also by the affected ones — 50 families are still displaced in the earthquake area. This would mean that there are huge costs by stopping the construction projects, protecting these construction sites and, at the end of the day, it would probably happen that these funds would not be saved, because the contracts signed are incriminating and the ministry should also pay these charges. It's an amendment that I think is acceptable to most people. I think that the majority of local communities have a problem that is linked to dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. The fact that this item is falling by 16 million and thus stopping this removal cycle is unacceptable to most Members. Once again, it is not a general change in the budget, but a reallocation within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Speaking of water, I think that waste water management is still on the priority list, it can be less important for the natural disaster mitigation item, because if a cleaning plant or sewerage happens later, it is probably less important than if we do not solve an emergency that occurred at the time of the flood or another crisis. There is nothing that helps if we clean wastewater, and on the other hand, we allow water to cause us greater damage. I appeal to you all to support this amendment on Thursday.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Thank you. Before I give the word forward, just a notice. I inform you that the services have been able to accurately calculate the time that Mr Preseknik had at his disposal in his debate, so that the record of the time spent is consistent with the reality. Mr. Bevk alone is next to have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I have a bad minute to explain. However, I think that is also enough for a clear message. I think that this amendment could be supported because it does not take funds, like from servicing public debt or some other financial item, but it is a reallocation within the core. However, it would be good to hear from a representative of the Ministry whether it is really possible to draw on the item Sustainable water use and water management fully in 2014. The earthquake, the recovery of the Suča, was a July 2004 earthquake, fell by 72%, this is a disproportionate reduction of the item, while the other items somehow fell by between 15 and 20 %. Bad Message [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] On the 10th anniversary of the earthquake in Soča, the impact elimination item was reduced by 72%. [[…]] That's why I think we could support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u55	Thank you, too. I will give the word to Mr Mikhael Prevc, and then she has expressed interest in the debate by the representative of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u56	Thank you very much again for your word. I listened with interest to the discussion of Comrade Bevek. We both come from those areas that are very prone to natural disasters. My colleague Bevk was talking yesterday about the consequences of the earthquake, 10 years of it, and the fact that the funds have decreased. Comrade Bevk, I'm glad you're saying it would be good for this amendment to be supported. I hope your statement was heard by the coalition. I say, not only well, it is imperative that this amendment be supported. For if this transfer of funds does not take place, then what my colleague Krivic has discussed will happen. A lot of contracts will have to be terminated. Even at our end, where there are still numerous reptiles in the process of recovery caused by the floods in 2007 and beyond. If this recovery does not occur – I think we all know – it can mean even more significant consequences, which will require more costly recovery below. I agree with my colleague, Krivec, if we can determine what is more important at this point. As they suggest in the Slovenian Democratic Party that money should be redistributed in the field of waste water management, it seems to me that it is more important for a citizen who is threatened with some plasma in the recovery process to first recover this beach. However, waste water management procedures may take some time. I am happy, and I am optimistic at this point, and I hope that if not the other, this amendment will probably be the one that will also be supported by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u57	As I predicted, I give my word at this point in time, Mag. Andrea Jerin, who signed up for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The fact is that the resources in the Draft Budget for the Area of Natural Disasters are significantly less than we would really like them to be. I must also say, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, that we would be very pleased if an additional 15 million could be able to respond to intervention measures to remedy accidents. However, we must find that the proposal you are proposing in the amendment to redistribute the funds from the item related to waste water management – this is essentially the item on which the means of ensuring own participation for European projects are located. If we reduce these funds in our own participation, this means that approximately 100 million funds are to come from the European budget, we cannot provide. Unfortunately, this proposal is not feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u60	I understand the logic of the ministry, but these are the means that will not be realized if they are realized – because certain projects, as we see from the current financial perspective, will not be realized. You'll probably do some more rebalancing in the future. And now have reserved funds and even increase them by 16, 17 million on the item Wastewater Cleaning, where these are projects that will or will not be realized. On the other hand, we have an item that requires immediate action, because otherwise you will be paying compensation for these contracts that have already been signed. This is about weighing some facts. I know what you want to say to me, but in this case, if some European projects are being implemented, there is always room for rebalancing certain things because these funds are not yet fully booked by contracts. Contrary to addressing the consequences of natural disasters, where there are signed contracts, work is being done to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and funds are already reserved. That is why, however, it is for Members to think when we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u61	Thank you. We continue the debate on budget user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. We will discuss the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u62	Your Honor! I am very well aware that the budget is not easy to balance between revenue and expenditure. However, I do not understand the budget preparer for those items where, with a significant reduction in the intervention, it is said that it is in the fixed part of the budget or does not listen to the profession. I'm talking about maintaining public rail infrastructure. I am talking about the implementation of the mandatory public economic service for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the management of rail transport. It's a public economic service. And if we interfere in this area with a drastic reduction, then I'm seriously concerned. The Committee on Infrastructure and Space also had a very good, constructive debate, where the section, colleagues in the field of railways, also presented the issue of what this matter would actually look like with such a drastic reduction in funds for this purpose. There are three solutions. This means that, with such a drastic reduction of funds, certain lines in Slovenia will have to be closed or, for safety, reduced speed to slow driving, which means a significant reduction in speed, which means significantly less flow on Slovenian railways. It also means suspending some of the investment maintenance already started. One of these is the reconstruction of the nomadic line. We know that a certain investment that we interrupt also increases the costs of these maintenance investment works. In order to maintain the safety level on railways, it is necessary to invest €70 million annually in maintaining the upper and lower rail structure. I would say that the Minister who has accepted a compromise in this area for such a drastic reduction is extremely brave – that he has taken on the burden of reducing the level of safety in the rail sector. I would very much like to see him as a result of the disaster — of course, we do not want to — how the minister will defend himself in this segment. Our proposal is that this item for the implementation of the mandatory public service for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure is increased by 50 million and that by these means we maintain the level of maintenance lines on Slovenian railways at least at the level they have so far. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we support these funds that are ready for the amendment. Let me also say that this was also the decision of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, where both the opposition and the coalition Members supported this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u63	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and to discuss the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the management and ongoing maintenance of state roads and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u64	Respectable. On this item, too, there is a similar case as I mentioned earlier. This time, except that it is investment maintenance and construction of state roads. I really don't get it. Because he's down 80 million in the fights of 8 million euros here. What's the percentage here, you can calculate it very quickly, but I don't get so worked up with the percentage. I am very concerned about how it will be with maintenance and investment on Slovenian roads, regionals and main roads. I am particularly concerned about the part of the construction segment that already has contracts signed. 52 projects will need to be stopped in the next year, which is already running. It is said that a large majority of the projects already under way will have to be stopped and no new projects will be launched with this address in the following year. Not to say even worse, when the budget is adopted, construction operators may be concerned about paying for the work they will do next year. I'm sure there won't be any new contracts in the next year. It was very clear and clear from the Roads Directorate that, in case of a winter of assets, it was already in mid-January. I know that today I will not get an answer from where the basic funds for the implementation of the basic public infrastructure in the road area will be taken, according to regionals and highways. Here we propose to restore at least part of the funds, saying EUR 50 million, that at least the worst cases of maintenance of Slovenian roads in the next year will be dealt with in an intervention or urgent manner, by proposing an amendment of EUR 50 million for the following year. We know there were 80 million in this year. It's a drastic reduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. My ears still ring yesterday's words from the President of the Government, Mrs Bratušek, when she said that investments are up 80%. We wanted to get an explanation for her claim for nothing, because we cannot find out from the budget comparisons. I strongly hope that this response will be received in the course of today, if not otherwise, in the debate on the 2015 budget. This certainly does not mean that the funds would increase in the area of governance and the ongoing maintenance of state roads, unfortunately quite the opposite. In the field of budgetary user of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, the funds have decreased by EUR 61 million. If we are more concrete, the line on the management and maintenance of state roads is down from €80 million to €8 million, as my colleague Žnidaršič has already said before me. This represents 90% less than the percentage. We know what our roads are like. We know these roads are in very bad shape. This is pointed out even by international institutions, which have also found that Slovenian roads are in very poor condition and are therefore dangerous. On the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, we have heard from the representative of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads that 50 contracts already concluded, 50 investments in the regulation and maintenance or reconstruction of state roads, will be terminated. We can only imagine what this means for the operators who have been selected for this work, who have planned their capacities, and because they will not be paid for the work already done, the liquidity of their companies will again be compromised. We know how vulnerable our construction companies have been lately, in fact, the rare ones that have remained. Not to mention damage to the country. The fact is that these contractors will seek compensation for the termination of contracts. And the state will also have to take care of the costs of closing and securing construction sites that will be closed due to a lack of funds. Such interventions have also caused much damage to the economy as a result of such a drastic reduction in investment. We're talking a lot about the economy that needs some start. And it's just that construction companies have been the ones that have been failing the most lately. In doing so, this trend of problems faced by construction companies is only continuing. That is why I really appeal to Members and Members that this is such an important amendment, so that we can drive on roads that will ensure basic safety standards. As my colleague has said before me, and I have also heard from maintenance workers, from road managers, the resources available are sufficient only to use salt in case of such winter as it was last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? There is still interest, so I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister said yesterday that your decision this week will be related to our future. Your decision on the coalition. If we could also give some decision by the opposition here, then the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party or the Slovenian Democratic Party would be supported. If he does, then part of our decision will certainly be linked to our future. But of course on a very small segment – the maintenance and management segment of state roads. To cut the line by 90%, he doesn't really understand that. Perhaps not, because it is not long since only a year from this, 5 December 2013 will be the year when the then government proposed the budget and was said: Today there are facts before you and us, and that is that Slovenia is again in recession. Today, too, it is a fact that not only is it in recession, but it is a deep recession that UMAR forecasts do not hold at all, but it is three times worse than the UMAR forecast. Instead of talking today about how many new jobs are, how many have you opened up in your mandate, how people live, whether they live better, or how they live worse. If we do not accept this amendment, then without people living better or worse, people will obviously not be able to move along state, regional and main roads. A number of accidents will also happen if there is not at least minimal maintenance. The item that we had in the budget, 80 million, was too low, was too small. Director of the Mag Roads Directorate. He warned Ficko several times, and he went public after the parliamentary groups. I don't know what he's been doing in your coalition now if he's done anything in this area. I hope that you will be able to say in this amendment, even with your finger on the voting machine – that is, little – that our decisions are responsible for the future. When you come to the people, they say, "The Members have made up their minds." When you say there's no other tool than to step in front of a microphone and tell the public what's wrong and what you'd do. I won't let you down. Yesterday, a colleague of Starman's from the coalition told you a lot, but you probably didn't try to figure out what he would've done. He wouldn't raise taxes, he would lower taxes. He was talking about cutting banks' employees by half to lower their wages by half. You don't have to listen to the opposition that warns you about this, but within the coalition, you have to listen to something that's smarter to know the economy, a little bit more than someone who knows how to share science, because he's been in a job where he's always taught science. And to conclude, what my responsibility is here. Like, respected and respected, in Positive Slovenia we still believe that Slovenia is a country of opportunity and opportunity. We believe in the Slovenian People's Party. However, I believe that without Positive Slovenia for Slovenia there is still hope, without Positive Slovenia, only the right path must be taken. Citizens and citizens are already showing what the right path is. Support this amendment so that you can show with your finger that the Slovenian People's Party, including the opposition, is partly responsible for the situation we are in to enable people to at least drive on the roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Thank you. The next one having a debate or word is Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. The need to maintain state roads has been great since the construction of the highway. At many parts of our country, they warn about increased traffic, safe roads to school, construction of sidewalks, etc. In many ways, we have even dealt with this in front of local communities. But we've always run into a shortage of resources. What we are doing in this proposed budget is without any reality and sense to those local communities that have their own programmes, projects and contracts. In fact, a few contracts and road reconstruction plans have occurred that we have destroyed the buildings, moved people, and the matter is still waiting for construction. I have a bitter experience to tell myself. In the municipality of Duplek, the road is renewed for 18 years. It's been renewed for 18 years. A year and a half ago, we destroyed a house there, we moved an elderly lady out and we wait, the contract is now signed to start with parts; and there is no means in the state budget to continue with this. I think there are a lot of things that are very necessary. When something starts to build, it sells materials, companies have jobs, workers work. I can see here that the wheel could start spinning. In such areas, in such segments, we should not take the money out of the budget and use it to patch up other holes, such as the bank and the ones we are going to talk about today, but should leave these funds. That is why we have also tabled this amendment because it does not seem fair to us to reduce these funds from 80 million to 8 million. This will not attract foreign investors to our country unless we provide good infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you, too. The next word is Mrs Jasmina Opec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Thank you very much. When Slovenian roads take their lives, each of us is asked what we could do ourselves to avoid this happening. It is often the case that road safety is discussed in this national assembly, particularly when the Road Safety Act is adopted and the penalty is increased as a main measure. I have never advocated the improvement of safety on Slovenian roads with high penalties. The scientific research carried out in this area also clearly shows that high penalties only have a positive impact on improving safety in the short term, while this impact is negligiblely low over the long term. In the long run, the most successful measure to improve safety on Slovenian roads is adequate road infrastructure. Research shows that the number of fatal accidents, the number of serious and minor bodily injuries, falls simultaneously with the improvement of road infrastructure, and that there is no data to be overlooked at the constant growth of traffic or transported kilometres. The completion of the project on motorways and high-speed roads in 2008 has made a strong contribution to improving safety, and as a result certain state roads, which were then considered black spots, have improved their statistics, but work has not yet been completed. Slovenian state roads are dangerous, we all know the state they are in, we all ride them every day, and we all know that it is necessary to rebuild them. That is why we have also tabled these amendments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and we appeal to all of you not to lower these funds, because we may soon be addressing bloody statistics of our roads in Parliament, looking for culprits and taking the wrong measures again. This time we have a chance to accept the real ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments tabled on the draft budget must be balanced. On the one hand, it is proposed to increase consumption on a particular item while proposing to reduce consumption on other items. And if we look at both amendments from this point of view, then we find that the first amendment increases the road funds of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads by 50 million while reducing public debt servicing funds to pay the interest on domestic debt by 50 million. The adoption of such an amendment would constitute a completely unrealistic planning of the expenditure of the State budget on public debt servicing, as the option of Domestic Debt Service is to determine with great probability or certainty what the expenditure envisaged for this purpose is. This amendment should also be considered in the context of all the funds provided for the operation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space in 2014. Despite the reduction of funds from 886 million to 818 million, according to the proposal for amending the budget, this still means much more than is foreseen for this year's implementation assessment – 691 million and a half. When we look more closely at where these integral funds are being reduced, because they are key funds for projects that can be financed from European funds, they are provided to a greater extent than after the adopted budget and the current budget 2014. Most reductions are wastes on expenditure on goods and services, subsidies and certain transfers, and funds for the purchase and construction of basic funds are increasing. The Ministry has distributed these funds, which I have now mentioned under individual headings, according to the programmes envisaged and according to the expected priorities within each ministry. However, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is still considered to have significantly more resources than is estimated for this year's implementation. To a large extent, this increase is taking place at the expense of increased funds and at the expense of increasing the potential use of European funds. However, the second amendment to the same budgetary user increases resources for the management and maintenance of state roads and reduces investment activity on rail infrastructure by the same amount. Let me remind you that the first amendment in the field of the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space was precisely about increasing expenditure on rail transport and infrastructure, namely the maintenance of public rail infrastructure. Here we reduce the investment activity of railway infrastructure, which may mean the non-continuation or non-activation of activities relating to the second track on the Ljubljana-Divača route, Divaca-Trst. According to everything, the government does not support either amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u76	I would like to draw attention to how the 2014 budget is prepared and in the 2015 and 2016 development programmes. If you look at 2014 and 2015, they are zeros; e.g. for investment 2 million in 2014 and 2015 is zero, for 2016 a few tens of thousands, for 2017 50,000 and later, 700,000 and so on. Such tables are known to those who have already adopted the state budget several times. The same roads were written in the days of Pahor's government, some fell out at the time of his government, and then, of course, it will open up, and the money will be more than too much. That didn't happen clearly. I want to say how unrealistic this is, how unfair it is, and how terrible it is to mislead citizens and citizens. There's something planned for when you're gone. It's not right. This is a minimum of what we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Thank you very much, President, for your word. The Luče ob Savinja railway project has been up to date for many years and is important precisely because of the long-term development of Light. The project was carefully planned in accordance with the guidelines of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia and the neighbouring municipalities and represented a good agreement between national and local policy and professional and citizens. Due to the importance of the project and to the time poverty of the implementation of the undertaking, we propose to eliminate the unnecessary civil society [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Attack. Apparently, the time has run out for the Group of Members. I'm also asking, who wants to discuss this subroutine? Here you go, Mr. Blacky. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u80	Thank you very much. There are probably many of us in this hall who would like to discuss the matter further, but we cannot because we are running out of time. Therefore, in the future, it would be right for the President to ask himself whether anyone else would like to discuss, within a time frame, and to tell which groups of Members the right to debate has unfortunately expired or is not available because they have run out of time. For in this debate those who cannot do so would like to say much more. With regard to this budget, we would say that, despite the fact that the President of the Government is comparing the incomparable things, the funds should be sought where they could be taken. Therefore, the amendments allocated infrastructure resources to service public debt. Why? Due to the fact that Slovenia is indebted to this government by 6-7% of the interest rate. Apparently, he's going to keep doing this. In the coming year, this debt will be €5 billion. And only with billions of these abnormal interest rates – compared to the money we could borrow from the European Central Bank – does that mean about €70 million. Only one billion! At 5 billion, this is 350 million euros. And money for all infrastructure needs – which is lacking for protection and rescue, for firefighters, for all that you are cutting now, saying that there is no money, and at the same time you are spending EUR 400 million on two Taiwanese banks in the same budget – is therefore more than enough. There are arguments that suggest that budgetary revenue and expenditure could be set in a completely different way in 2014 if it were the will to do so. Many in this Chamber would like to say this, but that is no longer the case, since time has run out for some of the parliamentary groups. It would be right, both at this point and at the next point, if this happens, for the president to ask who else wants to discuss it and at the same time, according to the Rules of Procedure, for one of those who can still discuss it, because the time for discussion has passed for some parliamentary groups. I think that this would be right for the public, and it would also be credible, because unfortunately there is such a Rules of Procedure that, in the course of the time it is given, you can debate, but not. So I didn't abuse the Rules of Procedure in any way, because I can see that some hands are lifting. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this procedural proposal is submitted and I believe that the Chair will take it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Just a moment, I see all the wishes for further procedural proposals. Thank you for your proposal, Mr Cernač, but your proposal was not exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The groups themselves follow when their time runs out or are no longer available for discussion. I can only tell by the way. In fact, the time of the Slovenian Democratic Party at this point has expired and the debate is no longer possible. All the others who still have time available, you can sign in. Anybody want to make a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nevertheless, I would ask you, and this is also my procedural proposal that you should really take into account, as Chairman-in-Office, the procedural proposals, and let them go forward. It can be determined very quickly which proposal is not procedural and which is the content or waste of time after a regular period of time has elapsed for the panel to discuss. I think this is pure abuse, so I ask you to give timely warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Even because these procedural discussions were drawn up after several minutes yesterday, even in hours we could calculate how much time we spent in the State Assembly for unfounded and past the Rules of Procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The same would apply to everyone, including you, this was not a procedural proposal. Mr. Meh has a wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Actually, I don't want to, Madam Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u85	A request and a right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm not going to argue, but I find it underestimating to talk about you having to watch when someone's time runs out. I know that time has run out for the Social Democrats, so I thank you for your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u87	What do you want me to find out? That this was not a procedural proposal either. I do not think that the conduct of Members from various parliamentary groups excludes any group of Members, much the same. I suggest we all stick to the Rules of Procedure, including those who point out that I have to stick to it first. We are moving to budget user 2611 - Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and discussion on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Money Refunds for the unemployed and the amendments of the SDS Group, which no longer has time to defend its amendment. Do any of the others want to discuss it? No one wants to discuss it. That is why I am also putting to the debate a sub-programme of the Fellowship and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No one wants to discuss it. I therefore conclude the debate on this sub-programme and also on this budgetary user. We are moving to the budget user 3330 – this is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the debate on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to the sub-programme Media and Audiovisual Culture. He wants someone to discuss it. He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and discussion on the amendments tabled on this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Media and Audiovisual Culture and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members and the amendments of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. I see he wants to discuss Mrs. Opec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The most genuine and powerful feelings of connection and belonging are cultivated by people to the environment from which we come, where we live and where we have people who enrich our lives. These feelings of connection and belonging to a particular environment are also established and cultivated through the local and regional media, which inform us of developments in our environment and in various areas, preserve language, cultural heritage, the specificities of a particular local and regional environment and ensure more equitable and consistent development of Slovenia. For the reason stated in the Slovenian People's Party, we have prepared amendments to raise funds for local and regional programmes of particular importance, which is also in line with Article 4a of the Media Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Opec. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the Draft amending budget will be held on Thursday, 14. 11. 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Does anyone want to discuss the development agenda plan? I don't see any desire to discuss it. That's why I'm concluding this point. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held on Thursday in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Proceed with 2. Dotko, this is the defence of the Republic of Slovenia's 2015 supplementary budget proposal. We are moving on to the debate and inform you that we will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, it is considered the General Part, the Special Part and the Development Programme Plan. So we are moving on to the first set, this is for the consideration of the General Part of the supplementary draft budget. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? Anybody else want some? You have the floor, Mr. Blacky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we have reached a point where we can discuss again. I think that the National Assembly is too close to formalism, and too much time and energy is focused on whether or not someone says a word under the procedure. I think people are sick of it. They're full of hearing that if someone wants to say something and has what they want to say, tail and head, because of some procedures it's impossible to say it. People expect the National Assembly to adopt some smart and effective solutions, which will enable them to function normally, have jobs, work, children will be able to study and the economy will be able to deal with as few administrative complications and problems as possible. I think we're reflecting how this house works inside this National Assembly is also a reflection of reality. In a similar way, bureaucracy at government level, at ministerial level, and then all of this is transferred to lower levels as a result. Now we have cases where this virus has been invaded by individual local communities that have been quite immune to it for years. At the level of local communities, there has been at least this virus so far. That's where all the things were even more operationally dealt with and acted. It would be a shame to make this part, where things are going well, impossible with the inadequate decisions we have in the 2014 and 2015 budgets. And that's exactly what's going on. The 2014 budget, we talked a lot about this at the previous point, and even the 2015 budget are bad. They're destructive to this country. On one side of the public debate are also those who support this government, on how you support everything from firefighters to rescue to earthquake recovery, to investments, I don't know what else – with the words of course – and on the other hand the reality when you say you will support budgets, including the 2015 budget, which do not contain all of this. So, duality. We have heard a lot about this duality in recent months when we had the Minister for the Economy of Stepišnik, who sat here with us yesterday, who on all the committees where he had this opportunity told us: I agree with the property tax, but only if the burdens are not significantly higher than they are now. Now, totalling less than €200 million per year for the population and economy, these burdens will be estimated at over €400 million, €440 per year for the population and the economy. And the minister still sits in a chair, did not protest, did not defend the interests of the economy – even more, he took care of some least principled action that he could afford at a given time. He took care of his company by means of a subsidy granted to him or her by subordinates. And on the other hand, we have a minister of the Jews, the great advocate of agriculture, in words that were still in one public media a few months ago – I think that was television – he said publicly, that there would be no such tax. Such a tax, which would be different from what they know in European countries that support agriculture, will not be here with us. And this same minister of the Jews was one of those who said at the door of the government palace when this tax was being decided, and today we must accept it; if not, this government does not exist. So, the interests of his own chair are in front of the interests of the industry, which he represents as minister. And there's something similar about the whole government team. Interests in holding positions, even if this country "scrabbles". In order otherwise to interpret the constant repetition, we will be able to, we do not need, thank you very much for such assistance, which would be 6 times cheaper, as far as credits are concerned, as well as if then two generations of young people due to our own, of course, not our own decisions, imported., Who will pay you, I ask you, all these strong interest rates that are foreseen in the 2014 budget as a whole, and for 2015 will be fictitiously transferred forward in the coming 2016 and the next, because you have estimated that it is possible to agree on these credits or to rent them in a way that the burden of interest will fall in the coming years and burden of some other government. But the debt that will be created in 2014, 2015 remains. This one's not going anywhere. On the basis of the budget you will obviously adopt for 2014, this country will owe EUR 4 billion 800 million additionally in one year alone, which means that we will exceed some EUR 25 billion in debt by the end of 2014, with interest of around EUR billion. For a budget that you can't inflate in a fictional or infictive way over 8 billion, or for 2014, you're inflating it to 8 billion 600, which are completely unrealistic. But even if we ignore this number, let's say 8 billion 600 is a real number. A billion euros just for interest. Why a billion euros for interest if it is not necessary to do so? If we could get cheaper money, we would be responsible for where Slovenia is. Unfortunately, we can't do it on our own. You don't have a recipe for a solution to this crisis. Appropriate decisions should be taken as to the cost of the debt and everything else, which will have to be done in any case. There will be no way to avoid rationalising public spending, even if we now owe ourselves at such a high interest rate or precisely because of it. It's gonna have to be done anyway. The sooner we went into this process, the less it hurt us, the less it would cost, the less it would burden future generations. And this is not in the budget that we discussed at the previous point, not in the 2015 budget that we are currently discussing. So there's no money for firefighters, no money for protection and rescue, it's not a big amount, given the whole budget. There is no money for investment needs, where necessary and where further damage will be done when 52 contracts are terminated. There is no money to ensure the normal functioning of Slovenian railways and to strengthen public passenger traffic through this. By the way, the government of Janez Janša, the second government, in 2012 – when the most acute year required the abnormal deficit planned by Pahor’s government, from 2 billion 300 to a billion, a billion, 100, introduced almost a free ticket for students and students in the most acute situation. Why? For the first time, by allowing all about equal conditions for education, children living in large urban centres were not privileged. Secondly, due to the launch of the public passenger traffic strengthening process, which proved to be very good and appropriate. The data show that public passenger transport has also begun to be significantly strengthened as a result of this measure. And this path should be continued, public passenger transport should be strengthened, both on wheels and especially on the track. The measures now foreseen in the 2015 budget are not going in this direction but going in the opposite direction. There will be a loss in the state-owned company, which will eventually be covered by the state because the state-owned company is still 100 % state-owned. Instead of dealing with profits, as was the case in 2012 and will likely be the case this year, this company will deal with a loss that will eventually be covered again by the budget or by taxpayers. For these purposes, which are good, which means strengthening on the one hand also economic activities, and in particular allowing added value to people, there is no money. But it's money, like 400 million, for the Factor Bank and Probank, because we know who rented loans that he'll never have to pay back. Many companies owned by the so-called Forum 21, I call this a left-wing political provenance, a left-wing political provenance that this nation has as a fool when it furrows it with some symbols and brings up some complex stories, and on the other hand it takes from its left and right pocket what it has. That's what you did years ago in the former regime, and that's what you did in this regime. One of these, I read in the paper the last time, was bought by Javor in Pivka, that's the environment I come from. It is said that EUR 4 million has received credit for the purchase of these shares. By the way, someone else was interested in buying Javor, and he wasn't allowed. I'm sure if I bought one that wasn't allowed, which is now the owner of the Postojna Cave company, Javor would still be alive today, and people would have a job, and that's how they don't have one. They have no jobs, no future. And these 4 million euros that this gentleman has received for the purchase of the Maple will never be returned – I think to the Factor Bank. And what did this country do? Instead of knocking on the homes of all these houses on 6 September to go for a while to some other premises, and with orders on temporary confiscation of property, the police rewarded all these jobs by saying: Factor Bank and Probank will not go bankrupt, but they will be so forcibly liquidated. And for that, there's money in the budget. That's why it's money. More than €400 million, more than €400 million for this piece alone. A billion EUR 200 million is in the budgets only in 2014 for recapitalisation, probably around 3 billion in 2015 for recapitalisation, when a rebalancing is adopted, which is obviously not accepted by this government, not because of the opposition, but because of other circumstances. So that's what the money is for. For 200 million euros to recapitalise businesses, where according to Minister Stepišnik EUR 5 billion is undercapitalised, the money is in the budget. Now I ask you, EUR 5 billion is under-capitalised by these companies, and this government will save them with $200 million. Does anyone really believe this fairy tale?Oh, my God! I don't know if the Minister is a magician, he's got some magic wand, like someone who's once fed a few pounds of fish to a few thousand people, so now he's 200 million not going to feed those five billion euros he's missing. It won't, no. But something else is going to happen. I am firmly convinced that we already know which companies will be located in and what interests lie behind this. At least the practical actions of the current minister speak of mastering his business, not as a minister, as a private minister. He's determined. And he's not the only one on this team. It is very difficult to support certain budgets, including the 2015 budget, despite the fact that it is far more favourable than the 2014 budget, which speaks of Slovenia going even deeper in the years ahead in view of this budget planning that we have on the table than it is today, and that the greatest burden of this drift will fall on the shoulders of people who are taxpayers. Unfortunately, the greatest burden will always fall on the shoulders of those who have the least, for they are the easiest to take. And you know that, after this wonderful formula that we heard from Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek yesterday, the average residential area in this country is 68 square metres, the average value is 78 thousand euros, on this basis the average owner of such average virtual property will pay 3 euros or 3 euros more a month, says 40 euros per year. This is something similar, as if all those who have strong millions in Cyprus would put in the same boiler with those who have €400 or €500 of pension and would get out the average income of Slovenians, along with these strong billions of them at a rate of €10,000. That's not how it works. And these comparisons are underestimating for a healthy Slovenian mind, people are not so naive and very well aware of what is expected, and they also know what these money will have to pay for. This money will not have to be paid for our development, for our investments, for us to have more jobs tomorrow. By the way, the Economic Chamber informs us that since 2008, 90 000 in the real sector have been abolished. How much in public? Nine thousand or 900? Maybe 900. 90 grand in the real sector! However, this real sector provides the backbone for everything else. And also the 2015 budget – not to mention 2014 – does not talk about one of the measures that will allow these figures to start turning in a different direction. On the contrary, it tells us that not only this generation, this young one who is now somehow becoming active, at least another or two will be burdened by the repayment of loans in the years to come, which will be at an abnormal rate of interest, so that someone can express their ego how he can do it alone. It is impossible to support such a budget. And the responsible authority, the responsible coalition would stop such a budget in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Who else wants to discuss the general part of the 2015 budget? Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Initially, I must say that I do not intend to support such a draft budget because, in my opinion, it is weak, unrealistic and in no way developmental. Of course, I will continue to explain why I think so. Personally, I am convinced that the only right path, if we want from the current crisis, is, in my opinion and assessment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, a draft budget reflecting the appropriate basis for creating new jobs and reducing state and public spending. I am sure that this is the only way if we want to dig the Slovenian country out of the current crisis. Everything else we hear and what the position says, that is, the government, has absolutely nothing to do with the current reality and the situation in which our country is located. Maybe just for illustration, the relationship between employees. 606,000 people work in the economy and among them are those with minimum wages. On the other hand, they work for 750 thousand people who are paid from public funds. Is there anyone in this National Assembly in this House who can say that such a relationship can be maintained? I'm sure there's no one here. Even the Minister of Finance can't say that. If he said that this was sustainable in the long run, then he doesn't know enough public finances, and it's sad that he's taking this chair. And I'm sure the minister wouldn't have hoped or allowed himself to say that. Before I begin to substantiate why I said that the draft budget is weak, unrealistic and not development-oriented, I must say the following. Yesterday I was extremely disappointed with what Mrs Bratušek said. She talked about everything else, just not what's important. When she spoke about the draft budgets, she did not talk about the content of the budgets, but referred to the flossules and everything from which it is not possible to live. Anyone on this earth will be able to say that it is impossible to live by words. But to live from work, from what is created, and from what is in your pocket, which is the result of work. And to listen in Parliament to the President of the Government who has nothing to do with the substantive debate on budgets, then it is really sad what a lady is in charge of the Slovenian authorities. I will now try to justify the reasons why the budget is weak, unrealistic and in no way developmental. Yesterday, Mrs. Bratusek said we had to go together. The fact is, there is no one in this National Assembly who would disagree. I am sure that there is no one, neither in any of the members of the group, nor in the Slovenian Parliament, nor in the government. I am sure and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that we must step together. But not in that way. Not in such a way that the pensioners, the workers, the unemployed, the weakest, the poorest, the rural areas are burdened again and again. On the other hand, there remain untouchable privileged people, thieves, tycoons, bankers and privileged areas such as Ljubljana. And this budget consists of almost nothing done on the expenditure side, except a reduction in investments. Let me list only some areas such as state roads, railways, beach rehabilitation, protection and rescue measures, i.e. voluntary firefighting companies. I am sure that there is no one in this National Assembly who does not know that less than investment is less jobs, less money is in the budget, less money is in the pension register and less money is in the health treasury. At the very least, what would a person expect in this budget is that investments will increase as much as possible, as much as possible in the given circumstances. And that would make the basis for opening up new jobs and would result in what I was talking about earlier. But it's very much made on the income side and these are new taxes. These are new taxes. We have an intervention law in health care, the Banking Act, the Income Act, where people who are employed outside Slovenian borders are double taxed, who have made their best efforts not to hang on Slovenian social services. All the money they earn outside the Slovenian borders is transferred to Slovenia and wasted here. Such men have been duly taxed by this government and this coalition. Not to mention the real estate tax. Again, the weakest, the poorest, the ones with social support, the ones with pensions 200, 300, 400, and I don't know how many euros, then those with minimum wages, farmers. Then we have an increase in the price of vignettes, then we have an increase in student tickets, etc. When I say that the draft budget is unrealistic, I ask at the same time whether the budget covers the payment of compensation to the deleted, which is higher from day to day and can reach even up to a billion euros. On the other hand, people, those who live in this country most difficult, are put on a cross with new taxes.I ask you whether this is the social justice that Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek spoke about yesterday. Is that social justice? If this government and this coalition understands it in this way, then it is sad that the Slovenian nation has given us the opportunity to have in position such people who do not understand in any way what social justice means. I wonder if the budget also covers the payment of the second part of the pay gap, which is again close to EUR 200 million? Whether the budget covers funds for payment of bank holes amounting to several billion euros. Not to mention the private bank, Factor Bank and Probank, and all those who have caused terrible pain, I hope to say this to Slovenian citizens and citizens who have practically stolen complete Slovenian property. And now with this budget, we are also saving this hell mafia with this budget. I don't think a Slovenian man, a Slovenian nation, deserves anything like that. Can anyone then claim that this budget is real? I don't think he's here. That there is no one in Slovenia who can say that. I am sure that the Slovenian people will recognize this too. So these are the reasons why I think that this budget is unrealistic, is not development-oriented, is a total contradiction to what Slovenia needs now. It is a budget where the privileges remain and the people fail. The sad truth of this government and this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am very glad that we have been joined by Dr. Chufer, Minister of Finance, with whom I would like to exchange some views or questions in the field of the economy. Dr. Chufer must be more credible in the field of the Slovenian economy than Mr. Stepišnik. With all due respect, as I repeated several times yesterday, I think the economy is a key segment that we need to activate in Slovenia if we want to have pensions, that we will have a free health system. And that other subsystems will function normally. Yesterday, the President said we were able to turn economic activity in the right direction. Of course, from minus four and a half, you can't just jump into positive growth. So far, we have managed to reach, unfortunately still, a negative minus 1.7 decline in economic activity. This minus 1.7 must have been a lapsus because the minus drop is growth. "The forecasts for the next period are better, but in one quarter from minus 4.5 to minus 1.7. Okay. Let's say that people bought it, and now I'm asking if the government has identified measures that have contributed to a significant increase in economic activity, according to the Prime Minister. If the answer is positive, then it would be logical for the government to continue with these measures, even speeding them up and intensifying them. Where does this appear in the budget documents? My expectation yesterday was that when the Prime Minister presented the budgetary documents, which are extremely important, as she said, she would follow the good practices practiced by the statesmen. I expected the Prime Minister to have the people's invitation to address the citizens. At times, however, "ad personnel" carried out an attack on the opposition, suggesting a deficit in understanding the democratic mechanisms established in this country in the Slovenian Constitution; or in understanding the executive branch of power as an absolute authority in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of disappointment in the countryside. The pressure's even bigger. New taxes and measures really, believe me, are too tight and will tighten Slovenia's periphery, the Slovenian countryside. It feels like it's all being centralized somehow. The municipalities of this government are de facto abolishing, ignoring the principle of subsidiarity and the municipalities, reading to citizens, taking money. Not all of them. The privileged are on list A. Sadness me, very sad, colleagues and colleagues, that we are still a country of two lists of citizens. On one, they are privileged, on the other, those who, in some awe of the country, regularly pay taxes. And now comes a new tax, one of the presidents of coalition parties says he'll pick up the last change from some of the great crowd. But this president gave a green light to get this change out of the way. Privatization. It's kind of undetectable in the budget documents. Let me remind you that in July this year the National Assembly adopted a decision on the sale of 15 state-owned enterprises, but the budget documents on this in numbers do not speak in euros. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, to perhaps reveal a little more to us here. It is true that all information is not available to us opposition Members, but, as far as the New Slovenia Group is concerned, privatisation is of paramount importance. And if you can tell on behalf of the Government whether the real government has withdrawn, as regards the privatisation and implementation of this decision of the National Assembly, a manual brake, because obviously one of the coalition parties is not inclined to privatise. I am disappointed, I can also say indignant, because we have adopted conclusions on some of the Committees of the National Assembly and that these committees are chaired by both coalition and opposition Members. These conclusions were well-intentioned and the government did not actually define itself to them. It is true that you cannot, in fact, accept amendments on interested working bodies or, in fact, accept an amendment to the budget means nothing. I will focus here only on the decision that was confirmed at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs, where we have proposed and acted on behalf of one of the Presidents of the coalition parties sitting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And we came forward to transfer the membership item to international organisations to the Ministry of Finance, because it really doesn't belong in the Foreign Minister's section. The membership is a matter of the whole country or government. Neither this Minister nor the Government have answered these two committees, at least according to my information. What do you want me to call it? You know what I mean. Ignorant. Ignorant to the National Assembly. Here we sit people who are representatives of the Slovenian people. And as for yesterday's announced confidant. The President said that the budget is the most important act of every government, the term of government policy in all areas, and that is why I decided to bind the trustee – as I promised at the beginning of my mandate – to the adoption of the budget. I think it is necessary to explain to the people, citizens and citizens of this country whether there will therefore be another non-trust or confidant in March, how it will now be. We can't just play with such important mechanisms, predictions and so on. As regards the Income Act, which we will be deciding again at this meeting because it is vetoed in the State Council. I will now announce that the Members of New Slovenia will reject it. Above all, and also because the government has not done anything to negotiate with neighbouring Austria under the international convention — if possible, but to make an effort — so that the daily migrants from Pomur, Styria, Koroška, and others who work in Austria, are suddenly in shock at about one quarter of the income they themselves say. I will be pleased if the government comes up with some information that there is something to be done in this area. And something else that should also be expressed in budgetary documents is the rule of law. People in the field tell us, "Take those who took away from us." Indeed, there is a lot of talk about the grey economy, this government is doing a lot of work on this, this is a real government, we don't feel it, and even in the budget documents it doesn't feel like fighting against the grey economy will bring what kind of euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Does anyone else want to discuss the general budget? Since there's more than one wish for a debate, we're just gonna open up an opportunity to apply. Please sign up. Four reported. The first is Mrs Sonja Ramshak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I think it is right that, as a woman and as a Member of Parliament, I should like in particular to draw attention to some of the things I expected yesterday from the Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratušek. When she came before this honourable assembly, I thought that her address would be to us Members and Members of Parliament in a spirit of positive thinking, to address both coalition and opposition Members, given that she was also tying her confidant to the approval of the budget and that she would seek support on the part of both Members and members of the opposition. I'm afraid that's not the case. In her speech, I must say, she has mentioned quite a few things that my fellow Members have already spoken about. True, we can stand together, but not in a way that you are arrogant against the opposition. Not only the President of the Government, but also Mr Möderndorfer waved in the hall yesterday and insulted us across the board. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed necessary to ensure a culture of dialogue in the National Assembly and to discuss it in terms of expertise. I think that all the debates of the MEPs and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the opposition in this direction have been to draw attention to those things that we believe are not even development-oriented, that it is not even socially fair, and that we are constantly finding that you are only raising taxes, that you know how to increase revenue on taxes, while citizens are practically already breathing on girdles. With regard to the 2015 budget, I should just add that when you say the budget is development-oriented, even on the Committee on Finance, we have asked the representatives of the Government and the Minister to answer some questions, but we have not received any answers. And we did the same thing in this hall yesterday. I think this hall is meant for discussion. But who's arguing? He is discussing the opposition because he wants Slovenia to come out of the crisis. The opposition does not want Slovenia to sink even deeper than it is. There is still time for some to discuss and others we do not have the opportunity to discuss in this Chamber. I believe that citizens and citizens want debates, but quality and professional debates, not accusations. However, the President of the Government and the coalition continue to blame for your incompetence with the government of Janez Janša and the opposition. Let's get back together and get to work. The government of Janez Janša was able to work and we could also work as ambassadors and Members. And when you report in this Chamber that we did not want a debate on the Defence Committee – but who voted on the procedural proposal, the opposition has a minority. You voted her coalition, sorry. We are talking about social justice and how you are social. I think you're proving exactly the opposite with this budget. The opposition was willing to join you, but it was not invited. And what the President of the Government said yesterday, she doesn't. Dialogue means inviting someone to dialogue when you're planning certain documents or reforms, but not when you say, "Well, now I'm going to inform the opposition about this and that" with naked facts and no possibility of influencing certain things. This isn't a dialogue. And this is not a search for consensus, looking for consensus is when the opposition can also influence the content of certain documents. I'll close the debate here. I absolutely will not support the 2015 budget, because I do not believe that it is a developmental one, not a social one and even a deepening of the hardship of the people you say you care about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs Ramshak. It's Mr. Grill's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. It would be very interesting to hear the debate on the current coalition if such a proposal were prepared by the former government of Janez Janša and had such a subject under consideration here. I am convinced that rhetoric would be completely different, substantially sharper, arrogant, cynical, as we now say in the opposition to this budget when this rhetoric is primarily argued. I believe that what you are now doing in the coalition to defend this budget, or you are giving it that you don't believe in it, because you can't believe it. Except perhaps those who have failed to read these numbers or have not deepened and believe those flossules which were spoken here yesterday by the President of the Government, Mrs Bratusek. Yesterday, one of the debates by the coalition, from Positive Slovenia, discussed or argued that the biggest expert on this budget is sure – or budget at all – Mrs Bratušek, for she has always been a budget preparer and, of course, knows things very well. On the other hand, the same debater tried to blame the situation in Slovenia, mainly to attribute to the government Janez Janš for the time of last year and in the mandate of 2004-2008. The issues are somehow not credible if we are to see that this lady has been a key actor at the Ministry of Finance at all times in the preparation of budgets in the Pahor government and even during Mr Bayuk's ministry. She was preparing budgets or most responsible, and now she would not be completely responsible in all these matters. But the truth is completely different. Those yesterday's flossules of Mrs Bratušek, how this budget is developmentally oriented, how social, how it eliminates the many shortcomings of past governments, these are winged in which she does not believe.If we go a little deeper, we can see that this is not true. I would like the figures in this budget to be as objective as possible to have as much optimism as possible that Slovenia may only try to move away from the crisis or move to a brighter future. But that's not the case. I do not wish to do this, but unfortunately all these measures, which were also linked to the preparation of these budgets, and in particular those laws that you have already adopted or are still planning, will lead to a negative spiral downwards, particularly in increasing unemployment and declining economic activity. Even the social state you sing here so much that it is preserved will certainly not be able to be on the same level as it is now. Similarly, health care and other things that are very sensitive will begin to decline dramatically. But why? Because it has always been, and will be, today and tomorrow, the key to solving the issue from the crisis only in the recovery of the economy and thus new jobs. That the people receiving social support today – and I am sure that the vast majority of these people would rather work than wait for social support – work and thus fill the pension and health bills as well as the budget of the state of Slovenia. I'm afraid that's not the case. It's a reverse cycle. It's a negative spiral. And that is what is the biggest problem – that the numbers in this budget document are unobjective and unrealistic. In this is our criticism, our doubt that on the income side of these numbers will not yet be possible. All these assumptions, how much tax you have raised, will contribute to an increase in the budget, and the second and third, including this real estate, will unfortunately not be possible. Things will be increasingly falling, which means that on the income side these things will not be able to be achieved. On the expenditure side, if the government continued with the trend of the previous government, with the ZUJF and perhaps with some measures, including better negotiations, there is probably a lot to be done. And what would be most beneficial for you — we would have an interlocutor, a partner, and also support in opposition parties, for we have been defending ourselves all along. We'd have some kind of consensus. This "fight" and reading on one side or the other should not be necessary. But no, this was about buying someone, as you call it, social peace, probably voices in early elections, and hostageing the country. It is precisely because of this pay cuts in the public sector, because of poor negotiations which could not even be said to be negotiations – Minister Virant goes to negotiations with his opinion, and with these negotiations goes away with the opinions of trade unionists. If these are negotiations, they're not! [[...]] This way to negotiate and then to brag at press conferences about how an agreement was reached, this will not lead Slovenia to destruction. We could probably do much more in reselling state property if there were enough seriousness and readiness, especially by at least one party in the coalition, to want and believe that certain companies need to sell off and reduce debt, which is rising rapidly in Slovenia. And to take this project with all responsibility and seriousness. As I am aware, the only Helios company to be sold is now, of which the state has nothing. But those companies that would make a significant contribution to the repayment of debts are still in some kind of fog. There's no telling whether it'll sell or not. It's kind of a stand-up thing. Even on the part of the opposition – even when we had a government, we worked hard to see this privatisation proceed rapidly, even through the establishment of a holding company, including by setting up a bad bank – this process would probably have been well under way. Even the rehabilitation of banks would be better, probably not fully solved, it will probably be a process that will take several years and, of course, a lot of money, but this wagon would start moving in a positive direction. But now things are actually getting worse and that's why this 2015 budget is bad. And there is only one thing I would point out here, which I think may be a major problem for our country and it is necessary to rule over this idea – the departure of our young people abroad. Recently, we had a visit from representatives of the student organisation in the parliamentary group, and we were told through the interview that in colleges where a lecture is organised, how to work abroad, the participation of young people is unexpectedly high. In no lecture, however, can it be as interesting an item as there are not so many young people as at those lectures or seminars where they try to get young people to know what employment opportunities are like abroad. It's a red light, a big alarm for the whole society, especially for the government. Instead of making sure that young people and prospective people have some perspective, some optimism and employment, that they can take these problems on their shoulders, they will go. And then who's going to save Slovenia? The unemployed and the retired. Any young people who leave will also use their purchasing power abroad instead of Slovenia. Here, too, the effect of expected tax inflows will be significantly lower than before. And so these are our criticisms and concerns that the budget is far from unrealistic, that it will be necessary to have a rebalancing sooner or later, here are those arguments. Not some teasing, some cynicism, some negativity of our party, but of other opposition parties. That's more than justifiable. I will not support this budget myself. Not because I don't want it, but because I can't because it's, we can say, science fiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. Here you go, Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! By this time, Mr. Secretary had already left. Too bad I wanted to ask him a few questions. I also heard yesterday that the secretary of state was working hard and responding, but sometimes it is right, even if the minister answers a question. There is a little less money in the 2015 budget by also paying off interest. I'm asking you, how do you cover the difference in interest? We have to go back about 3 billion, but we have to go back again. You have 1.5 billion planned in the bank's recovery budget, and about 0.8 for the budget deficit, that is 4.2 billion. How do you expect less interest money for 2015, although it is already catastrophic. In 2014, there are 900 million and a few million, in 2015 920, which means a few million less. On some occasions, this has been said on the committees that some financial instruments will be involved. Tell us how these instruments will be turned on, so that you can understand it with simple farming logic or even a housewife. If he is gone, then get as much as he has; or he owes himself at some point, and then he has to pay it back in the coming years. This is clearly based on the way that you will probably – I suppose – hire loans for which the repayment period – including interest – will be suspended and presented in the following years when you are no longer in those positions. And when you do not and will have to repay the debt, it was presented to people as a financial instrument, it would be called misleading the wider Slovenian public. All these tricks of economists and lawyers are difficult for me — without understanding — to agree on because they are instruments that can be manipulated. The technique is 2+2=4. And no more and no less. For an economist, it depends on whether he sells or buys: but for a lawyer, whatever you pay him, the sum is 2+2. That's not right. It is also not correct because in the previous budget for 2014 – and for 2015, development programmes are made in the same way that there are almost no investments there, there is no maintenance – but everything is shifted in 2016, 2017 and beyond. That's one question. Secondly, yesterday, the President of the Government, when presenting both budgets, said that we could all work for the same goals. If this is the goal that since 2011, when Pahor left the government from 8,000 euros in debt per capita, we will arrive at 14,000 in 2015 because we are talking about the 2015 budget. In 2014, there are slightly less than 12,000 euros in debt per capita, and then I am not here. Then I do not work for these objectives and do not support these objectives. If we're talking about public debt in gross domestic product. I remember the budget from a year ago, which we represented when we were just over 50% of GDP, and you spoke on this side, which you were in the opposition at the time, now in the coalition, because there is no problem because there are still a lot of reserves in GDP. That's a hell of a spare you're smoking fast. In 2015 there will be more than 70% debt and I don't know where you can go through this. Of course you can, but domestic debt in Japan or the United States is completely different from ours. Or the debt of the state in absolute numbers, from the 18 billion you took in 2012 to the 25 billion you are planning now. Remember the radio show on Radio Slovenia on Sunday morning, it was usually from 9 to 10. Hours. At that time, the children were washed in the laurel, dressed, and prepared — those we did not have far off — to go to mass. By the way, she was listening to the show "Remember, Comrades." And remember, comrades, Yugoslavia flew at $20 billion. Well, she held on for 45 years. The devil's success was obviously those who opposed the establishment of this country, which was about 12% if we remember the referendums for independent sovereign Slovenia. We were a little over 88% in favour. They were so damn successful that they were able to bring this country over 20 billion debts this year. The answer to what follows can be given individually. The Prime Minister said, "Every path begins with the first step." And I'm going to continue here, "and it's a mistake if you don't finish this path." The Prime Minister of the Government and the current coalition, which also represents the 2015 budget, has announced to citizens and citizens that the previous government needs to be replaced because you have a better programme to make you better to work better. One of the discussers, who is one of the more visible men today in the coalition, said, to this day, the opposition, that is, we have not listened to any of our proposals, or we have been unable to take part in almost any of our proposals and it has not been taken into account. You work alone. Okay. This time it's the same. You don't listen to us when we point out some things, you work alone. Okay. You have done nothing on the revenue side, except you have been extremely successful in the last eight months, since you run the government, on the revenue side of VAT increases. I'm just going to remind citizens and citizens how women jumped into the luft when we were just thinking about raising their hairdressers' services or changing their tax rate. And the boys were jumping into the luft when we said we were going to change the tax rate for the flowers. And there were 20,000 people in front of Parliament and more. When you changed both levels, there was nothing. You've obviously figured out a system to make those 88% of the people who were in favor of Slovenia alone and reach out to those who were against that country. With this route you've been taking Slovenia away from what we've had for the last 20 years. The increase in health insurance taxes for both craftsmen and students has recently been addressed. At the next regular session of the second week, we will re-examine the Income and Banking Act because it has vetoed the State Council. And look, this doesn't agree with the economy, not the people, not the State Council, but I'm sure you'll easily confirm both taxes. In doing so, you will be most affected by the failure to harm those who have the least due to the lack of alignment between the facilitations and the coordination scales. Again with the Banking Act, those who have begun or are saving for old age. What you've done with the vinjets is clear. Entrepreneurs, you've done the most damage to the economy. As far as agriculture is concerned, I think we are the only country in the world when it pays all the subsidies. And there's a change in KD that's supposed to happen to 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the With such a policy and with such a budget presented for 2015, it is totally meaningless, really a waste of time and it would be better if you did not present it at all, because you are in any event awaiting the rebalans for 2014, probably already February or March, and then every three months, because you will not be able to mess with everything that will not. As the economy will not fall, because of what you did in 2013 – that is, 35% more bankruptcy than in 2012, 600% higher daily amount of outstanding liabilities than in 2008. 90 000 additional unemployed compared to 2008. In the countries of the European monetary union, however, we have come first in Slovenia. So one, and now we're first. This is a burden on the share of labour costs in GDP. But it doesn't help the economy, it brings us 85 down to foreign investment. On the other hand, citizens and citizens of this country deserve to have the economy picked up, as economists suggest, significantly more money than the grey economy. But you don't think you're going to pick up 200 million euros from the florists and the coffee shop that sells 40 coffees a day. In the tycoons who took billions out, nothing happens. I have a paper here that shows that you could have picked up a million euro from one person a long time ago, but you don't want to pick it up because it's not the right one to have it happen to her. Where and when the time will come for foreign investment. When will the time come when 250 million euros will be drawn from European funds. We've warned you how bad this pump is. You have been told several times in these days. You are also not prepared for the 2014-2020 programme. You've received a catastrophic assessment from Brussels and nothing is being done about it. Even in accordance with the legislation adopted where both regions should be included, you have not done so. Your fellow Member, Starman, too, is not only a fellow Member of Parliament, but also a Chairman of the Committee on Finance, but he knows something about these matters – he says: Taxes must be reduced, my dears, but not increased. And, of course, none of that. The president said we did everything in her power. We evicted young people, we taxed them, and that's all that's going on. Your government's goal is a successful, social and just state. This should really be the goal of all of us involved in politics. Therefore, it would be good if the President of the Government tied the adoption of the budget to a confidential one and said that at least one opposition member had to convince himself to do so otherwise. If she does, then I will agree that this week's decision is also related to our future. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, leading this way leads our country to bankruptcy. I'm sorry to have to be there, but there's nothing I can do but warn. Such a 2015 budget proposal, which is completely unrealistic – and in 2015 there will be many other places, but not here – I will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The 2015 budget, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have analysed the situation over the last year and a half, mainly in foreign markets, regarding the profitability of Slovenian ten-year bonds. I noted some typical cuts, very interesting how the market reacted to Slovenia, how foreign investors responded to the political situation in Slovenia, to the guidelines given by one or another government, which in some macroeconomic policy of each country gives some signals to the market, how these markets somehow react. Mostly those markets that buy ten-year bonds. As you know, they buy mainly in foreign markets, mostly English, Irish and so on. It is interesting that there was an earlier reference to this National Assembly, so let us see at the end of 2011 the profitability – that is, when the previous composition was self-resected, when it was calculated that somehow the right option would be – that these gains would be 4,82%. During the period set up by the Government, January 2012, these bonds amounted to 6,68 % of the premium, something like the current situation or trend of the last month in foreign markets. It is interesting that after the Janša government began to assume that this trend had fallen slightly. The trend increased slightly during the summer months when you did not want to participate in the Slovenian State Holding, in the rehabilitation of banks, through bad bank, through laws. It is interesting when the Constitutional Court banned the referendums when it was seen that Slovenia would go along the path of serious structural reforms, that these cases fell to 4.79% by the end of the year. Interestingly, in February 2013, when the current President-in-Office of Parliament spoke in each sentence, "government in departure or government without powers", these gains were still below 5%, 4.79% in January, in February 4.93%. When the government somehow set its guidelines, its macro-economic policy, which it will follow, began after April and May, this premium price and ten-year bonds began to rise: 5.84% in April, May 5,52% and in the summer months, 6.4%, 6.58%, even exceeded the critical limit of 7% in autumn. This is how the market economy reacts, so is the healthy market economy, where it lasts for decades, I can say centuries, and that is how it happens. So Slovenian macroeconomic policy has at least been operating over market logic in the last period. It works according to a principle we knew in Slovenia. We knew him at least who we are from some medium-sized population structure or older – you know him from the former socialist system, you know the criteria of high taxes, no rational policy regarding public finances, especially the reduction of the costs of the administration of the former country. I think you're clear on these things. We know where we slipped, what kind of country we lived in. Remember just shopping across the border, remember every price of coffee and banana that was a multiple. I don't think I need to explain these things to you because everyone over 40 today is familiar with economic policy. Unfortunately, this economic policy is returning as some other things are returning with some nostalgia. I cannot say otherwise to this draft or draft budget that we are considering today. I am sure that raising taxes is not the one, I think I warned before that VAT raise, lower and upper limits, that will happen because there are whole economic theories for countries such as Slovenia that the so-called turning point will happen. This turning point is due to the government’s boasting that in the summer months it received slightly more VAT in the budget. That's true, what we can't tell her, but it was because of seasonality, it was because of the tourist season. And all these reactions, to a quick rise in taxes, gradually lead to a level playing field and a fall in income itself. This is already happening and will continue to happen. The problem is second, the problem is a typical history, especially the SDS Group, which is also a history of serious macroeconomics outside Slovenia, as well as some Slovenians, Slovenian macro-economicists. The basic story is that we have become an extremely uncompetitive country, from several different perspectives. One that is possible naturally is the ageing of the population, it is difficult for us to influence, perhaps by some serious social or family policy we can somehow ease it. Unfortunately, there is also truth in the countries of the European Union. Another issue, which I think is at least definitive, is totally wrong school policy. We have a broken relationship, as I point out many times, we have a broken relationship between sociology, science, and secondary education. We do not follow the market's objectives, we do not follow the demand of employees, serious employees in Slovenia and also outside. I don't see the problem if we have day-to-day migrants, because today we're on the 500 millionth market. If someone comes to Austria every day, I don't see a big problem. But I see a problem when a country adopts an economic policy when it reduces relief for those foreign workers. I respect the opinion of the Constitutional Court, and we would understand it, the solution may have been unfortunate, but the Constitutional Court has instructed that a better solution should be found. This government has not sought any solution, so it has never gone into any negotiations, no one has raised its back, has gone to Vienna and has adopted a new decision with the Austrian government in order to find a compromise solution for these workers. Recently, I talked to some of them, they said they were willing to pay a little more in Slovenia for all that they receive in social policy and receive in some context municipal infrastructure to be aware of it. But what followed? This country does not treat these people, does not treat them at all, even though they have solved their serious social policy. This is worrying about the indicators shown by macroeconomic policy. It shows that those who take care of themselves who are not on the back of the country are additionally punished in this country. These are indicators on the basis of which the full economy of one country operates. People make rational or irrational decisions every day, make certain pacts every day, whether they are written or oral, and on this basis there is a full economic policy. This is an exit from the normal economy, this is going to the planned economy, and this budget is a document that I cannot call a budget, a document that I could call a path to collapse. That's the way to fall. This is the first document that seriously attracts a major crisis in Slovenia, which will come next year. I am predicting the budget deficit, not 2.9% or below 3%, and the second year, between 5.5% and 6% of the budget deficit, of course I cannot participate, I cannot support this budget. I'll argue with you. There are some other things. People won't pay any more taxes, there'll always be a gray economy, there'll always be more work on the black. This country was never a culture of paying taxes. When there was a communist system, he made these people smugglers, drug dealers, all those who were working in black because he was unjust. People felt unfair. People, each individual, may also be uneducated, have a sense of injustice. All that we started under Janša's government was those serious measures. The first serious measure is the rationalisation of this country. The country – before requiring people to pay taxes seriously, to reduce the grey economy, to work in black – must primarily make it a flexible state to become a flexible public administration, to be friendly to people. And all of this, all of this macroeconomic policy, as I listed in the first part of my affairs, has been answered by markets with everything I said before. With yields on Slovenian bonds that fell, which were almost close to the 4% limit. At such a price, Janša’s government also owed itself. The difference between 4% and 6.5% is 2.5% – my dear fellow Members, the difference of 2.5% in one billion is 25 million in one year, 250 million in ten years, more than one billion in five billion. We can no longer be indebted to the next year at five billion if the markets show this orientation. So over 6% for ten-year bonds. This is a collapse of the system and the collapse is coming. We must take seriously the profound structural reforms of this society. Indeed, some politicians may not be clear, but this must come. We also have a serious new problem regarding the pension reform that we have adopted here, which was prepared by the Janša government. It is likely that next year we may need a new amendment to the pension system just because we do not know how to undertake some serious macroeconomic activity. And I must say to myself that, as a responsible Member of this budget, I cannot support it. This is the path to failure, the path to collapse, the path to total destruction of a totally social state. And the second year is followed by a bill. President of the Government – although it can be said today that she will bind her confidant – let her say today whether she will tie up her word that she will apologize to Slovenian citizens and citizens next year when it comes to this again. Because of what she did to you. And it's a very serious matter, I don't know if some of you are aware, it doesn't contain any serious economic theory. And anyone who thinks we're going to dig out of this budget, respected colleagues, is not serious, I think it's also misleading to the people and citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also asked for the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Vranitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. What can I say? Recent discussions show that each number can be interpreted in its own way. Some numbers are subject to estimates, others being followed by belief or faith. You believe in one thing, you don't believe in another. Could not close temporary folder: %s Because it is easy to say under what conditions, under what assumptions and with what estimates we are going to see a deficit of 2.4% of GDP in 2015. And under what conditions is a deficit of between 5,5 % and 6 %. I just conclude that you may have compared the state budget with the budgets of the country's sector, which includes many other things other than the state budget. Let me limit myself to the specific questions raised below. Firstly, the two questions raised by Mr Horvat concerning the revenue from privatisation in the budget documents and the second question concerning the transfer of international membership payments to the Ministry of Finance. As far as privatisation is concerned, I have repeatedly explained that privatisation procedures for 15 companies are ongoing, and other companies are preparing procedures. It is uncertain when and how privatisation procedures will be completed, and it is uncertain to predict what amounts or what purchases will be made. In view of this, the government has fluctuated between the possibility that certain indicative figures will be foreseen in the 2014 and 2015 draft budgets or that it is simply not speculating what revenue is expected from this heading and thus increases or strengthens the possibility of lower indebtedness in the coming years. If the 2015 budget had already provided for privatisation revenue, this would have reduced the management room for manoeuvre with the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, provided that these revenues would not have been realised. That is why the government has chosen a different approach. In any event, privatisation revenues may be used in accordance with the Public Finance Act to repay debt or new investments in equity. In any case, the revenues generated by privatisation will have a positive impact on the consolidation of public finances over the medium or longer term. However, this approach taken by the Government in the preparation of the 2014 and 2015 budget does not mean that the divestment procedures in 15 companies do not run or are, in any way, stopped. Another issue was the transfer of items relating to the payment of international membership to the Ministry of Finance. Membership in international organisations is, in principle, linked to the policy of each ministry in a particular field. We can agree that there are certain international organisations that are of wider importance and exceed the powers of each ministry, such as the OECD, the UN and the like. And in this segment, the Ministry of Finance always actively cooperates with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is responsible for these issues, to seek out or be available, or to provide funds for the payment of these memberships. The introduction of a uniform approach to bringing all international membership together and paying from one item to the Ministry of Finance would mean the elimination of one part of the implementation of the policy of the competent ministries and the transfer of some responsibility to the Ministry of Finance, which, in our view, would not be appropriate. Another specific issue was raised regarding the payment of interest or the amount of expenditure foreseen for interest in 2015. This is not a matter of any machination, abuse or fictitious transfer of expenditure to 2016 and beyond, but it is a simple assessment of which instruments for State debt in view of the current situation in international financial markets are most appropriate for Slovenia. The talk was about 10-year-old bonds. This is only a reference, it is not the only instrument by which the country can be indebted in domestic or international monetary markets. There are shorter-handling bonds, longer-lasting bonds, there are treasury bills, there are other debt instruments that we can use to ensure as optimal a debt as possible, with the lowest cost possible. If we are indebted to international financial markets, we simply need to take into account that the way in which interest is paid in different markets is different. If we are in debt on the European market, the approach to debt and interest payments is prepared in one way; if we are in debt on the US market or on another market, the approach to paying interest is different. In view of the interest to be paid in respect of the existing debt already in 2014 and 2015, projections of expenditure under this heading are prepared. And given how we anticipate that the country will be indebted in the coming year, what is foreseen in the 2014 draft budget is also estimated expenditure for 2015. For 2015, we anticipate that the possible debt on the European, the euro's international financial market and, therefore, the cost of servicing the new debt in 2015 will not be as much as it would have been if we had committed to any of the other markets. For this reason, the loss of interest on borrowing on a domestic or foreign market is known. As I have already said at one of the hearings in the working bodies of the National Assembly, this lower expenditure in 2015 does not mean that the trend in the costs of public debt servicing has already turned down, but is essentially a response to the current situation that will arise in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vranitz. We still have time to discuss this. Does anyone else want to discuss the general budget? Five panellists have been reported. Mr. Fish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! When we accept or when we have a 2015 budget in the debate, I would like to ask myself a few thoughts, perhaps some questions. We see that you intend to charge the revenue side of the budget with an increase in taxes, as well as in 2014, which at this point is incomprehensible to me if we want to help the economy from which we all live and should always be in the foreground. I'll keep thinking about what I'd do on the spending side. I do not believe that all the provisions to reduce the current expenditure of the budget have been used, but they could be introduced in a short period of time. In particular, reducing the costs of advisory services at offices and ministries and increasing the efficiency of public servants. It is unacceptable to employ highly educated staff in public administration, trained at the expense of public spending, while at the same time ordering services from various external operators, lawyers and other experts. This information would be interesting, and I therefore ask: how much have we paid for external counselling this year by individual ministries and how much resources have we allocated for the education of those personnel we have in the ministries. We know from practice that in the years of independent Slovenia, each government, whether left or right, came with its own staff, if, with people we can trust, with those we can successfully work with. But our legislation is such that those who were there before cannot be forgiven. Then we put them in the next office and they're working on it and they're fighting to have a job. So everything they do is very important to them. It's not their fault. And that's why the bureaucratic path to individual resolution is in the individual ministry of debt. And that helps us not to develop as we would like. An increase in concern at setting standards for spatial and material equipment for schools and kindergartens. It has been a good time to see that human and material norms in this sector are overly volatile and can be adjusted with budgetary options without compromising the quality of services. In the area of social policy, certain incentives, subsidies, lower taxes and lower social contributions will be necessary to ensure the possibility of employment of generations – or generations between the ages of 30 and 45 – and to enable them to reimburse society for the contribution it has provided for their education. This is the generation with the most energy and innovative ideas, but it has no opportunity to develop and establish it in practice, particularly in the economy. Because of social distress, this generation does not have the joy of being born, as they cannot regulate the conditions for normal living or the work of a family. Then I would point out the poor use of European funds. I think that individual local communities, municipalities have the most projects, including building permits. And here, ministries or bureaucrats or experts at these ministries should approach local communities, help them to produce appropriate documentation in order to reach these funds – then also to monitor the implementation of such projects. This would be good for everyone in the country: we would have a job, craftsmen could work, we would sell material, we would get tax back in the budget. And the bike would kind of spin. But it's like we don't hear it. Then the health field, nobody's even gonna touch it. When we talk about the rehabilitation of banks, which we're kind of worried about, and we're waiting for what they're going to be, and on the other hand, you've given the Taiwanese banks 400 million. These funds could solve a number of problems and needs, which you are now squeezing in this budget. On the other hand, I would like to say on my own that some of the credits held by larger and smaller companies should be reprogrammed. If an undertaking has a credit to make it easier to understand, at a rate of 100 million per month, these funds are difficult to reconcile together, because we know that obtaining labour on the market, prices on the market, is very competitive, even because of other European countries that have the opportunity to apply for our tenders. And if we reprogrammed these loans in such a way that we might extend the repayment deadline, the meal would be reduced from EUR 100 to EUR 50 000, the company would be easier to pay off. I'd stay on the job, people would have jobs. If we don't do this, and businesses fail, go bankrupt, people go on the market, we have to pay for them. That would seem like the right step. Not to say how many smaller companies there are that don't have a hundred thousand euros or a hundred euros a month have four or five. You can't even imagine how much you could do to help. In this way, we would also patch or fill a bank hole. But they don't have a hearing for that today. We're talking about a gray economy and how we could get rid of it. Many times I feel that people are looking for all the possibilities for survival, and they are also using such and different works to make them work in garages that are not reported. On the other hand, I think they are doing it better than they are in front of Parliament or on the stock exchange or just waiting for state aid. I have already proposed several times, and it has not been heard that businesses should be given a flat rate and know at the beginning of the year how much money we will get together, how much money we can calculate in the budget, and how much money we would be able to make budgets easier and more realistic. Sir, it would be useful to include an idea and a solution to which the opposition Member, because I do not think it is time to exclude, but it is high time to listen and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. It's Mr. Joseph Horvat. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief, Madam Vice President. First of all, thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Matthew Vranick for answers. I agree that it is difficult on the revenue side to write the exact figures on privatisation, but I was more interested, Madam Secretary of State, in how this process is going. I'm sure at the Ministry of Finance you're closely monitoring the process, which is why we read in the daily newspaper that one of the strongest coalition parties regularly pulls a manual brake. How's that working out? Are there any turbulences, feeling turbulence in the process or not? And secondly, as far as income is concerned, probably the government will not have a chance to explain when we decide again on this Income Act. Whether the government or your ministry and perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are still working on an interstate agreement with neighbouring Austria on taxation. It is normal for me to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Surely, however, the solutions can vary for people from Pomurje, Styria, Koroška and other parts of Slovenia to go for their daily bread in neighbouring Austria. As this decision is a major shock to them, they say, I often meet with representatives of the civil initiative, Dusan Flower, who is leading this civil initiative. I've had a lot of meetings with them. At the same time, I say that the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected, but we can all work together to find solutions that would not be as cruel as this new tax legislation now brings. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vraničar has already repeated her reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Thank you very much. How's the privatisation process going? It's undisturbed. The privatisation process is led by the Sod, in contrast to the information at which the individual investment is at the stage of the procedure, and I am not aware that these procedures would be hampered by any unforeseen events. As far as the Income Act is concerned. The Ministry of Finance has already offered and led negotiations with the Austrian Ministry of Finance on possible amendments to the double taxation agreement. However, the discussions did not lead to any good results. Therefore, in 2009, it was proposed to supplement the Tax Procedure Act and the Income Act as supplemented. During the period before the proposal for a law on income, which will be under review these days, we also discussed with the Government in the legislative process and later in the National Assembly with the civil initiative of the Apache. We have identified the decision of the Constitutional Court and have also explicitly stressed that, for 2013, the revenue decisions to be received by the debtors in 2014 do not change. The amendment of the law will not take effect until 2014, i.e. for the tax decisions it will receive in 2015. After considering the draft law on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have agreed, together with representatives of the civil initiative, to continue the discussions. We also had our first conversation and agreed that we will continue in the second half of November or December to seek an appropriate solution that can be applied to the issue of income forecasts for 2014. At this point, it is difficult to tell which direction the solutions will go, since any new solution must also take into account the findings of the Court of Auditors. It should be said that the existing Income Law, without this special additional personal relief, recognises these people with special status, in relation to transport costs to work and in relation to food between work they have otherwise arranged in Austria; but we recognise income reductions for these costs as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Secretary of State for your detailed answers. It's mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In these days, we listen to the government's representatives when they justify the structure of the budget. You know what I noticed? That the most common justification is the following, I quote: "it will be possible to repay, it will be possible." This has now become our national economic activity. Wouldn't we trade it for the term "we'll create"? Finance magazine wrote, quote: "Raising taxes and borrowing – every calf knows this." But creatures are rare. And we are not a country that can create; or at least the state does nothing to ensure that those who create have at least comparable conditions like those of our neighbours, say the Austrians. What I will continue to say comes from my experience and is worth listening to the genius Einstein, who stated: The only source of knowledge is experience. And this budget is the same as it is, also because not one budget maker and those who participated in the composition – I suppose that if it is different, correct me, those who know who made up the budget – did not lead the inn with two employees for a year. And then man has no experience of what it means to create, to make sure that wages are paid. We all deeply agree that you can't spend more time in the long run than you can create and that the government deficit has to be somehow patched up, but there are two models. You raise taxes and cut salaries, pensions, social transfers and so on. Or you leave it at the same level and make sure that more is created and on the other hand you make structural reforms. Structural reforms are, among other things, the following. It is incomprehensible that some in the public sector have a salary of EUR 600, 700, while others have a salary of EUR 7, 8, 9 000, or income. If anyone doubts that I'm telling the truth, let him come to me, I'll show him the information. Public sector wages should be balanced to a ratio of 1 to 5 during the crisis. The government has drawn up very high-quality budgetary documents which indicate that it has used only one way to stabilise public finances, i.e. to raise taxes. And it's too bad. The public debt, which follows from government documents, rose from 22% from 2008 to 2013 to 63% by the time the documents were drawn up. I think it's 70% now. The deficit of the state sector is not the same as it is in the documents at the end of the year, so it will be significantly higher at the end of the year. However, the debt of the State budget increased from 26% to around 60% from 1997 to today. You know, you don't have to be very smart to figure out that if you have this structure of indicators — whether it's a company or a country — that's just before total bankruptcy. Let's create conditions for creation, not for lifting [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Don't let my predecessor blame me for getting a little attached to him. I think the government should listen to him more, because he has already personally experienced the way down and down. Obviously, however, the government has not experienced or is unaware of the way down, that the bottom can be much lower and that landing to the bottom will be painful. It would therefore be worth listening a little more. The 2015 budget document reflects the government's policy, even on a somewhat long-term basis, as it also covers all that the government can do in the coming year and will be active in the financial work for 2015. The 2015 budget reflects the policy's intention to reform the government's ambitions. And if we look at it through this prism, we can actually be quite disappointed, because from this budget it does not reflect the willingness to comply with the OECD recommendations. The government does not take seriously the intentions of making commitments under the Stability Programme and the Reform Programme. I have also personally seen several budgets, and I know where to identify or see a policy. I therefore do not object to this proposal because of my opposition role, but because I have the opposite opinion on how to drive public finances through 2014 and 2015. I'll try to explain that. The government in the 2015 budget document is relatively optimistic about all types of tax and non-tax revenue. It assesses that taxpayers will not be affected or affected as much as they are today, and that they will pay taxes, so it provides, in fact, for all the structures of the multiple tax collected as in 2014 and in 2013 both for income tax and for corporate income tax, both for VAT and for excise duties. In short, the country intends to collect taxes probably more intensively and also on which levels it will take after the new. Due to the decline in consumption forecasted by all forecasters, both domestic and foreign, due to the decline in economic activity, which everyone is also predicting, it is certain that the basis for collecting these taxes will be more affected, but the country foresees more tax collection. This is an extremely important signal that the tax burden will not give up in the future, but will increase. On the expenditure side, it is also very important that there is virtually no change in the state's current expenditure or expenditure. The government does not have the ambition to make any serious reforms in the field of public sector operations, not in the sense that once again, in the face of unaltered tasks and areas of work, the functioning of the State would reduce the number of employees, but rather take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity for serious reform of the public sector, including public administrations and these ongoing expenditure. Here we have an appropriate opportunity, which is dictated by the crisis and the tight financial situation, but through these policies it is not visible, because costs in these areas are practically identical. The government here has decided, contrary to my views and expectations, to cut everyone a little here and there, so that there will be no reconciliation of pensions, there will be no coordination of social transfers. There will be some pressure to reduce salaries in the public sector to a small extent 1% of the expenditure or reduction of employees, instead of seriously reforming or rationalising the public sector and abolishing an institution which, in my opinion, is totally unnecessary; or to halve the number of employees in such institutions in a way that practically halves the competence and tasks that normally bureaucraticly burden the country and the economy. He can't see it, so I think it's the wrong way. At the same time, in the 2015 budget, where the financial effects of any reforms should already be reflected, there is no spirit or hearing about this. I'll tell you two cases. The first case is the rehabilitation of the banking system. There is no institution in the world and Slovenia that would not claim to spend between €5 billion and €10 billion on the resolution of the banking system. But there is no mention in this 2015 budget of Euros worth recapitalising banks or anything. With a very modest figure in view of all these forecasts – Fitch, among other things, is predicting the need for about €10 billion when we are talking about recovery and economic needs. However, only banks can provide for the economy's need for fresh capital. And if we prosecute Slovenian investors in these banks, the country will probably have to provide this money. 1.2 billion recapitalisations in 2014 and nothing in 2015 and at the same time some ambition for the first reform to take place is the rehabilitation of the banking system – I'm sorry, I just can't believe it and it won't happen. Another important reform and recommendation is that we must make the management of state assets more efficient and, of course, privatisation. We've already heard about this from the Secretary of State. And "expresses faith." That's right, Madam Secretary of State. Part of the budget is based on certain calculations, assumptions and estimates, and part two is faith. And part of it is what we think will happen because we want it to happen. I think that these numbers — no privatisation revenue — are actually a belief that nothing will happen. And I'll tell you why my fears are. Because I want something to happen in this area because I think it's right. Because we can hear that the Minister for Privatisation, or the Minister for Resources, has awakened for one company, which is on the list of 15 privatisation companies and is also financially the hardest company, and has begun to set up its vision and its conditions under which this privatisation will take place. He has set such a condition that cannot be met, it cannot be implemented. This is already a prediction of some complications in this area. I'm sad that the government doesn't show that faith with numbers. This is a matter of balance B, which is not a question of expenditure on balance A. The matter is not as problematic if it is in there as it may be problematic if it is not in there because it has not communicated and there is no faith. I should like only to conclude that this budget reflects the continuation of a recognizable policy in the sense that by tightening the tax curve, increasing tax burdens and some socialisation of the problems of the functioning of the country, the budgetary deficit will be sought and even reduced. I am sure that this will simply not work because this socialisation of cost reductions will fail because problems will increase and current transfers will increase. At the same time, taxes to cover all of this will not be sufficiently collected, even though we think the Slovenians are so crazy that they will pay taxes despite the already excessive tax burden.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Thank you very much. More mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting! I also argue for the 2015 budget that it is painfully real, that it takes on many areas and gives on few. It is returning to the firefighters what we are taking from them in 2013, and that is why I will support this budget. At the end of the day, the bill always comes, the question has to be paid, and with this budget – for 2014 and for 2015 – we pay for the national interest, which some have so enthusiastically advocated. When the time comes for foreign investment, one of the Members asked before me. It would be good or probably not at all in such a crisis if some parties did not hold back their national interest before a good decade ago. We are paying the bill for the unimplemented structural reforms that we should have carried out decades ago, and we would have entered this crisis much more prepared than we are. The budget is simply a tax for the work of those who have had or have had the opportunity to participate in the governments of the last two decades. There was a lot of talk about these two budgets at the expense of real estate tax. I'm saying it's not a new tax at all. We know the real estate tax in the form of compensation for the use of building land, only the way to collect this tax will be different. For some companies this will also be a burden. This morning, I was in contact with farm director Ihan. This company has its properties in three different municipalities. In Domžal they will pay the same amount of tax as they did using building land; in Kamnik they will pay it half less; and in Krška they will pay it more than half less. It is a matter of very different municipalities collecting compensation for the use of building land, and this tax is intended to simplify the practice throughout the country, since in some parts of our country this compensation has not been collected at all. I also argue that in our country, there is a housing gap between the younger and older generations. Young people who pay high rent and can often only dream about their own apartment live often worse than us who do not have to pay the rent. And it's not fair for them to pay the only criterion of taxation. I am not telling you this because I would argue that real estate tax is fairer, but it is significantly more unfair if we want to put the burden back on young and working people who are now, if we compare them with other countries, among the most taxed and "contributed" in the world. We cannot tax injustice with new injustices. In the Civil Gazette, we claim that we have too much tax and undertaxed property in Slovenia, so we would like to introduce this real estate tax at a time when we could lower taxes in the area of wages and contributions. That is why we look forward to or hope that we will be able to manage the necessary structural reforms, so that the time will come to reduce taxes as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u118	Well, I have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u119	A debate? I'll open another round. Is there any other desire for discussion? Mr. Pojbich, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u120	I'll be very brief. It could be a replica in some way. Just before that, the Secretary of State said something completely different, which I have now heard from this coalition MP. First of all, that real estate tax is not a new tax. That's the first I've heard of it. Whether we are all reading the same things or not, we are all sitting in the same chairs, or we are not all sitting in this House. I really don't get it. Please let Mrs Vranič tell us once again whether this is a new tax or not a new tax. And whether what was taken was really returned to the firefighters was said by the coalition MP. Please, Mrs. Vraničar, answer these two questions. Please, very clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Mrs. Vraničar has applied for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u122	I would like to respond a little more broadly to other discussions in this round of discussions. As regards the optimism of the revenue side forecasts for the 2015 budget. In its explanation for the budget, the government announced that it is not planning new revenue measures for 2015, especially in the field of tax revenue. However, when planning individual revenues from individual taxes, we took into account data from the macroeconomic framework in the autumn forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which predicts a slight growth for 2015, positive GDP growth – 0.4%. Further predicts real growth in final consumption and real growth in private consumption [[Incomprehensible]] at 0.5 % of GDP. All these data plus all other indicators on average monthly gross salary, as regards the growth of the wage base, were taken into account in the 2015 revenue planning. This brings us together to the fact that tax revenues are projected at a low level of 90, 87 million more in 2015 than in 2014. In 2015, account is also taken of those tax measures that we are discussing this year. As far as public administration expenditure is concerned – the policy the Government intends to pursue in this area is most evident from the level of resources allocated to salaries and other expenditure to employees and the contribution of employers to social security, where we maintain a negative trend. Of course, in the initial period, larger cuts or greater savings in this area can be advocated. The more such measures accumulate, the more it is difficult to impose additional contractions. The trend in expenditure on goods and services for the work of budgetary users also has a negative trend. Although a certain increase is foreseen in 2015, it is at the expense of European funds, where expenditure under the so-called technical assistance in connection with the implementation of the new financial perspective is to be recorded in a particular way. It was mentioned that the 2015 budget does not provide for the recapitalisation of banks in the B balance sheet. Our expectation is that the recovery procedures of the banking system in terms of recapitalisation will be completed in 2014 and we do not plan additional recapitalisation needs in 2015. As far as privatisation is concerned, I think I've explained enough and I wouldn't say it again. As regards specific issues from the point of view of real estate tax: in some ways there is a new tax, but there is no new tax. This is a new tax form, but it is not entirely new, but replaces four existing tax forms in the area of real estate burden. I am sure that we will be able to discuss this further in detail, as we have several hours of debate planned under the Real Estate Tax Act. However, I must admit that I do not understand and cannot answer the questions concerning firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm asking, is there still a desire to discuss it? If it does not exist, then I conclude this part of the debate. The vote on the General Part of the supplementary draft budget will be held on Thursday 14 November in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are now moving on to the consideration of the Special Part of the supplementary draft budget. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I do not see any desire for the debate, which means that I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 9 November 2013. We are moving to the budget user 1711 – Ministry of the Interior and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Local Self-Government and the coordination of the state and local levels and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking, is there a desire to discuss it? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Novi Slovenije delegation group during its field visits to Slovenia – I think so far there have been about 15 – also encounters mayors, encounters local problems or problems related to local self-government. We also meet with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, and we see that the self-government local communities have a number of responsibilities and legal obligations under the applicable legislation that they must carry out. In addition, legislation which is in the process of adoption and is likely to be adopted will give them additional obligations, in particular under the obligation to pay the property tax. In order to function normally and fulfil their obligations, the municipalities must retain at least the resources so far in order to be able to exercise their legal powers regularly and to settle their obligations on a regular basis. That is why we propose and ask for support in the amendment. It's not about high funds, it's about 800,000 euros. I believe the government will challenge our proposal of where to take this money, that money is not at risk, but that it must be taken somewhere. And I don't think that the "public debt service" item should know 800 thousand euros. I'm asking for your support. It is not just one entity, it is a Slovenian local government. This is actually the only system that works well for us, and I think it would be good to support this amendment and that we generally support the development of Slovenian local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1714 – Police and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Criminal activities and the amendments of the SDS Group. I'm opening applications for discussion. Mr Jerovšek has already been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Previously, a coalition colleague said that the budget was painfully real. I note that it is painfully unrealistic and that the government coalition did not know or wanted to locate areas that need to be upgraded, which need to be improved, where something needs to be invested. It is horrifying that in the 2014 and 2015 budgets, the government is reducing funds for criminal activity, for organised crime research. This situation is catastrophic in all areas. We need to encourage the criminal police, to upgrade some of these billions – brought back by the tycoons and power centres, the financial oligarchy, the former authorities, to move into the tax havens, to rip out our banks – and this will be the best-paid money in the budget. Prof. Secretary said it was 11 billion — perhaps more will turn out after the stress tests. But if they bring back at least 3 billion because that money's still out there, they still got it. Of course, this coalition, this government works differently; it works so that this money will be permanently lost for Slovenia, and it reduces funds for the criminal police. It's outrageous, it's horrifying and it's approving the crime in this area, what happened to the Slovenians. Colleagues and colleagues, I hope that at least you are so conscious and that you are so responsible to the Slovenian people that at least at the symbolic level we will give some support to the criminal police, who in the last year or in recent years have been working hard, I must admit that. Of course, it is under the pressure of oligarchs and centres of power to work on just one case to prosecute only certain persons who are politically unwell. And I say, you have to chase down every last one, no matter what customer he had support from. It is true that if they investigate, it will fall on the left, you have to admit it, because at least 80, 90% of that money was going to that side and it also benefits everything that's not allowed, political propaganda, for I don't know what. Because it's cheap, it's free money and it can be donated. And, gentlemen, I will be very careful which Member and Member of Parliament here will say that it is against not being a good intention, that this is not an excellent money invested, which brings back some hope to the poor Slovenians. For if you refuse to do so, then it means that you are burned with those who have robbed. I hope that the mind will prevail, that it will prevail over honesty, that it will prevail over responsibility toward the Slovenians. If we're not at every step of the way, even in this situation, when we're financially in a very difficult situation, but, uh, grabbing the bull by the horns, then it sucks, it's hopeless. Then it's supported in this country by looting. Then you'll do anything to make all this obsolete. Let us allow our criminals to explore and thus bring him back to the billions of dollars worth of looted money. This will be the ferment of this money and this amendment a thousand times. And with this, you can be proud of your electorate that you have made it possible for us to move something to the train station, on which our country is wooded, with this amendment also on a symbolic level, so that it does not collapse. But that it will catch up and that we will begin to grow again and at least promise the future to our children and other generations. With this policy that you currently run, you can't promise it, but you can help eliminate it. You're signaling young people to go abroad because there will be no permanent possibility here, because there will still be tycoon structures to continue to rule as they currently rule in the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Will I open the debate if anyone wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. We've got one registered. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, Your Honor. In opening, let me say that we have not tabled any amendments to the 2015 budget in the SLS Group of Members, because it was clear to us that we will not achieve anything because the coalition will firmly reject all amendments. This will be true for 2014, otherwise this has already been demonstrated on the Committee on Finance where the amendments were tabled. That is why I have also now come to my attention because we have tabled an amendment similar to that now tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The fact is that we need to ensure the effective conduct of investigations into illegal financial transactions. In the event that we reduce resources for the criminal police, as the budget submitted deals with and try to correct this amendment, we will then do nothing in this area. Thirsty money – anyway, in this or that pocket, in this or that bank, in Slovenia or far abroad – will remain where it is, in that account, and no one will be punished for it. I don't want to hear from you later. We have tabled a similar amendment for 2014 – we are talking about the police, on the one hand the criminal police, on the other hand about the functioning of the police – but this is not just a problem with the current budget, it is a problem of more budgets to go back. The police have an impossible fleet. We all have better cars, all the institutions in the country have better cars, so I can't imagine when I'm watching the police, how they can even do their work at a car park like this. Let's just take a look at the roads for once. And I have already discussed at the previous point to make the work of the police more difficult on the ground rather than increase the security of the population and property on the ground. This year, the police or the interior ministry suspended night work at many police stations in Slovenia, which is an unsustainable situation and increases the reduction of security conditions in many areas in Slovenia. So this amendment and many others, which have been put in by the desire to fix some things, will be supported without any hope of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Thank you very much. There is still a desire for debate. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I think we're talking about a set of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u131	We are talking about budget user 1714 – the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u132	Okay. Since there's two more on the line. I must stress that 80 per cent and more of the budget that the internal ministry, which the police have, Mrs Vraničar knows this well, is about labour costs. The interior ministry with the police is one of those who has the highest percentage of money on the labour line. There is virtually nothing for material costs and investments. We give less than 48 million euros to the police at the annual level for material costs, but it is the work of a service that counts 8,500 people throughout Slovenia and provides one basic thing called security. In investment, things are practically zero, so there's a very big question. I am joining what Mr President has said, the equipment is at zero. We will no longer allow ourselves – and I don't think the finance ministry will be able, nor will the government – to push their heads into the sand, with vehicles transported on average 200 thousand kilometres. Which one of us has a car that's made 200,000 miles? Also, vehicles carrying protected persons to be very clear have over 200,000 miles [200 000 km]. I don't know how we're gonna look when he stays in the middle of Celovska or Vodice with a foreign president and he's gonna split in half. We'll probably be ashamed of ourselves as a country. This is no longer sustainable and there is an urgent need for support. Madam Secretary of State, I hope you will listen to me and I also ask you to say that this is the truth that I am saying; and you are trying to find so much sense in the coalition and support these things. The fleet involved about 2,000 vehicles of 8 years of age, carrying 200,000 miles [200,000 km]. Many no longer go through technical checks and stand. Please, regardless of the coalition- opposition views, try to make this an end in the coalition, you have this option, not the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? It doesn't exist. We are moving to the budgetary user 1912 – the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the time of the rebalancing of 2013, the Secretary of State, which is unfortunately not in the Chamber at the moment, said: "The alleged reduction in resources in the area of protection against natural and other disasters in connection with human resources imperfection reduces the stability and reliability of the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters." This year, with the rebalancing of 2014 and also with the rebalancing of the 2015 budget, the government of Alenka Bratušek decided to reduce funds for the operation of the protection and rescue system – and not as Parliamentary colleague Hočevareva said. In fact, for the 2014 budget adopted, 30 million and some others are foreseen for protection and rescue; of this, you took 5 million 500 for 2014 and in 2015 – 3 million 870 thousand. If we are just looking at the functioning of the protection and rescue system, this means that the 2014 budget is less than €1 million 513 thousand 566. And that is why in the SDS Group we are returning to the item Operation of the Protection and Rescue System 3 million, which means that we will provide the most basic equipment for the operation of all protection and rescue systems, especially firefighters and others, such as lobsters, mountain rescue, diving link, dog guides and the like. Do not mislead the public that you are returning in 2015 because it simply does not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude this debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the SDS Group's amendment. Is there a desire to discuss it? If it doesn't exist, I'm closing the debate. And we are moving to the budgetary user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u136	This is a similar amendment, as has been tabled for 2014, as has been said, without any possibility of success, which also shows the duality of members of the coalition. On the infrastructure committee, we discussed this subject, and a decision was taken to express support for the budget to determine where, how funds can be provided for the functioning of the public service of rail transport and for investment in road infrastructure. It was kind of a commitment to the government to do so. It was not a commitment to the government to respond that the source from which the public debt service funds are proposed is not appropriate. It's appropriate! The government's job is to give us a cheaper debt if it has to owe us. The problem with this government is that it owes us 6.7% of the interest and thus takes us investment funds, including investments in rail infrastructure. Some members of Positive Slovenia obviously live in some confusion because you talked about the continuation of the Kočevska track with this budget. He won't. This amendment must be supported if you want to continue the investment in the Kočevsko track, which is two-thirds completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? There's still one. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u138	The inhabitants of Kočev, the Fishermen, the Great Lašća and all those who travel from this direction to Ljubljana know that the daily columns are in this direction and vice versa. Whoever drove there saw how long it took you from Ljubljana to get to these places. I think it makes sense for this route to be completed and, as a result, road infrastructure to be unloaded.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I can't see, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and to discuss the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on the management and ongoing maintenance of state roads and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Is there a desire to discuss it? We have more wishes, so I'm opening a debate. Please sign up. The first is Mrs. Irena Tavčar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members. The 2015 budget provides for the management and the ongoing maintenance of 19 million EUR 380 000. If I compare Mr Prevc's statement that these funds are sufficient to serve in winter, I think that these funds should also be sufficient to climb. The projected realisation in 2013 is 64 million 300 000, which means that we are cutting funds for 44 million euros. This is not admissible, nor does the Slovenian Directorate for Roads agree and points out that the consequences of such a reduction in funding will be a deterioration of the state road network. However, the continuation of this trend could lead to irreparable consequences when the damage caused on the roads cannot be adequately remedied. I think we are all aware that good roads are, that good road infrastructure is one of the key generators of economic development. In particular, my Polish Valley has staggered in this respect, for for over three decades we have been dealing with a diocese or this knot that we cannot resolve. Investors don't choose to invest in our valley because they don't have any perspective because of this closure. Therefore, our Group proposes an increase of €50 million in this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u142	These funds are reduced from the projected 80 to 8 in 2014 and in 2015 to 19 million, resulting in the closure of 52 existing buildings where contracts are already under way, where penalties will have to be paid, where closure costs will be enormous. Earlier, my colleague Puksic pointed to the NRP, where they had been failing somewhere until 2017, and then a few billion euros of this money was to be invested in state infrastructure. This is an unrestrained approach, it will not be possible to do so. I must say that in all of this, the only bright point is that some projects, thank God, have been brought so far in the past that you could no longer stop them. European funds have also been earmarked for some. This is the case in Illyrian Bistrica, where 15 years ago the procedure was mixed up and accelerated during the second Janšev government period, so that the contracts are now signed. This project, thank God, is saved and will be realized by the end of 2015. Something similar applies to the Pivka Oblast. But, unfortunately, 52 projects won't have this happiness because your hand has gone too far, and the only way to keep these projects going is to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At the meeting of the home Committee on Infrastructure and Space, we paid a lot of attention to this topic when we discussed the draft budgets for the next two years. As has already been heard today, we have adopted a special decision calling on the government to strengthen these lines concerning state roads and rail infrastructure. The fact is, in our country, only investments that are invested through European funds are being made. Therefore, we need to devote all our attention and energy to European funds, so that we do not lose the millions from the last or this financial perspective, which is due this year, and whose resources we will be able to draw back from 2014 and 2015, and that we really are prepared to draw on the funding for the next financial perspective 2014-2020. There are other possibilities for funding different projects. Thus, at the end of October, we were able to read in the media that the SID Bank will rent EUR 300 million of loans to the European Investment Bank to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. Similarly, the country could also borrow from the European Investment Bank for infrastructure projects. We also discussed this yesterday, and the Secretary of State also spoke about the possibility of borrowing these loans. Matthew the Vranic. I hope that the country will decide on this possibility so that we can make up for the funds that have fallen out of the budgets for the next two years. Because in the development programme plan, there are no more projects financed exclusively by the state budget, but only projects financed by the European Union funds. I would therefore like to reiterate my call to borrow funds for these infrastructure projects from the European Investment Bank. This money is significantly cheaper than the money of the banks in which the state is in charge of its normal functioning. I would like to repeat yesterday's appeal to try to strengthen infrastructure projects in the country, which would also strengthen economic growth and the recovery of the Slovenian economy. This initiative was also presented last month by the President of the National Assembly. And as far as I know from the media responses, this idea has been favored by both the President of the Government and the Finance Minister and the competent Minister for Infrastructure. I expect that we will also draw on these funds in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Infrastructure Committee, who took up the debate that was good on the Committee. Dear colleagues, this is an important matter. In doing so, I would really like to have Minister Sam Omerzel here to ask him if he actually negotiated so badly. Even when it comes to the budget, it is a matter of negotiation; or perhaps it agrees to reduce, drastically reduce funds for the maintenance of state roads. And we're all full of mouths when we're talking about road safety. I can, unfortunately, list some road sections of state roads where there have been serious traffic accidents, unfortunately, even fatal ones. However, the discussion is always developing around the Road Safety Act, not so much about infrastructure itself. And what makes me sad? It saddens me that I had heard a few years ago that the Infrastructure Committee – sometimes it was the Transport Committee – was the one who dictated the pace of maintenance, including the construction of state roads and highways. But the government has not even given any answer to our decision of the committee chaired by Comrade Sam Bevk. Thus, the government is "fucking" at the decision of a committee and this decision has been unanimously adopted. This was not a decision taken by the opposition because it cannot, so I am very disappointed. I wonder, however, and Mr Sam Omerzel, who will be paying for the court's claims when contractors already having signed implementing contracts will have to be cut off by parts. That's why they're going to lose their income, that's very eloquent, and these numbers are probably going to go to heaven. I don't want them, but it can happen. I'm in trouble with this minister's attitude towards a problem that's acute. We're all aware of it, and the only thing we have left is to support this amendment. That's the only thing! Therefore, I invite you to follow also the Members of the New Slovenia and we all support this amendment together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Guilty, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I'll continue where my colleague Horvat has finished. He didn't want to tell us how much it would cost us if we stopped these projects, but both the Director of the Roads Directorate and the Secretary of State gave us clear information that stopping these projects would cost us just as much as the amendment envisaged. If all planned projects and projects in implementation are stopped, it will cost us approximately cca. 50 million– construction stops, construction protection and compensation to be provided to construction operators. I absolutely support this amendment. This is a strategy that some are following in this budget. All these measures, which are linked to the reduction of the funds allocated to roads before this firefighter, eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, are, unfortunately, concentrated mainly on rural trenches and less developed areas. In this case, I would expect more obedience from the coalition to understand the problems that are coming. It is clear that no one is interested in road infrastructure outside the wider cities, Ljubljana and the motorway cross. However, if we have invested enormously in this over the past 15, 20 years, it is not right that now, in the area of maintenance of state roads that are in poor condition and which can also cause unpleasant statistics, which everyone likes to entangle when there is a need to amend some legislation, is actually causing a deterioration in safety, while we gain more resources by increasing vignettes, which are in some way also a source so that a certain segment of the road network can be increased. However, you do not want to see this, so in any case, I propose that this amendment be carefully considered and supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you very much. There's still a wish. Mr. Simchich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wasn't going to call, but speaking of infrastructure and the amendment mentioned above, I certainly agree. Once and for all, it will be necessary to agree on the equitable development of this country. So that we do not wait to be placed on paper, the Jelshane-Consisting Highway 43 years, as far as I have them; not to say that the neighbouring country – because we like to turn to our neighbors – has introduced a variable flow on the railway. We're still in the old Italian, 300,000 volts. As a citizen of this country, I have a highway 8 km away, and I have mine 40. And that's why I support it. If it is also necessary to commit itself, because – where the comparison is – be in charge and not have infrastructure; or be in charge and have infrastructure. I know which one each of us would choose. That is why I do not support this amendment. Once and for all – in this country we live not only Ljubljana and the railway and the Slovenian highway cross, but also in the countryside people who would like to get to the center as soon as possible and probably also the centre of Ljubljana to the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. We will probably have to discuss this subject in this mandate also on the competent Infrastructure and Space Committee, how to invest in rail road and energy infrastructure in the country, because these are the investments that we will be able to make with European funds, which I think will be the first person to know about the recovery of the Slovenian economy. Here are a number of problems, we know that we are not drawing on European funds sufficiently successfully so that we can be significantly more successful here. However, we also need to do some other domestic tasks in this area, and I am thinking, above all, of putting infrastructure projects more rapidly into space. Let us remember how many years we have put in the area of the highway by Radovljica or highway in Dolenjska, also 10, 11, 12 years. It's not much better today. The third development axis was already promised by the government in 2008 that the first shovel would be planted on the third development axis in 2008. That was the promise before the 2008 elections. Today we know that even the route to space is not placed, so I would appeal to my colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly as well as to the government to do everything we can to make us more successful here, because we are awaiting investments in road infrastructure, rail infrastructure and energy facilities. We could have started projects in the middle of the Sava a long time ago, but they're still waiting. I do not think that any government has so far been very successful in Slovenia. If we take a step forward here, I think our country will be able to make progress in economic terms too, because the only possible investment funds for our country are currently European funds. European money is actually available, but we just don't know how to drain it 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'll open the debate because I can see there are more of you. Please sign up for the debate. We've got two reports. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you're first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u154	Your Honor! See, the picture in 2015 is very similar to in 2014. The country is extremely poor in the maintenance of state road infrastructure. But, well, if I took a lease that really doesn't have the means to invest less in road infrastructure for a year, I'd still understand. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider that we will not invest in road infrastructure for two years. And I would very much like to see a picture at the beginning of 2016, because almost two years or so, we will not invest in the reconstruction and investment of road infrastructure. What will be the situation then? And how much more money will we have to invest then? I think it's a multiple of this money that we would be investing in road infrastructure right now. Thus, the mathematics of the master – the Minister of Infrastructure and Space – is extremely wrong and extremely bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u156	We support everything Mr. Bevk says. Let's have a discussion, ask ourselves why the project of the Circovce–Pince remote project, which is also important for the international connection for the high voltage transmission, was adopted from 1999 to 2012. Let's discuss why the current government put a nail to its knees shortly after the performance, when the extension of Nature made it difficult to put hydropower plants on the Central Sava into space. Let's do it all! And let's accept the conclusions and so on and so forth to speed this up. However, let us take the first step today, or Thursday, when we vote. Let's support this amendment! I hear you all agree. So if you agree, you'll support him. We are talking about that the funds are available to the EIB, that this money is relatively cheap. Thus, we have resources, we have projects – 52 ongoing projects will be shut down - and we do not provide funds to co-finance these projects. In the case of 4 billion 800 additional charges for all other things, to cover the Taiwanese banks, and I don't know what else, this EUR 50 million or 100 million is a relatively small amount, which will be reimbursed repeatedly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u158	I'll be very brief, Madam Vice President. Not to invest at all, of course, not to hold. Where there are European funds, it is moving forward as quickly as possible. On the 4th development axis, or where I know the situation a little better, there are quite a few projects that are being implemented intensively. Reconstruction between Želen and Mosto in Soča, 4th Development Axis, 50 million euros will be invested already this year and in the coming years. Then there is Gorenje village, which is built from European funds. After the floods in 2007, the damaged road Tax–Zali log, which is one of the largest investments in state road infrastructure. I hope that the problem of the bishop's carriage and the invitation to tender will now be resolved. There is also a questionable – if the call comes back – 25 million euros to complete the construction that has been demanded and fully expected for decades by the inhabitants of this area. Yesterday, I promised to hold a debate with the Committee on Finance on the subject of public calls and to see why some of the calls like a running lane were falling on the State Audit Commission. Now, in a particular case of the diocese, we are at risk if the call falls again to lose EUR 25 million from the emerging financial perspective. This would be irresponsible and unacceptable playing with the European and final stages of our Slovenian money, which is failing us for these projects. And I call on all of us to be very responsible in the case of the diocese and the things that are now going on around this, that we will not be left without these last 25 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u160	Dear Mr Bevk, I very much appreciate the projects you mentioned today, the seven that are somehow burning. To get a sense of how many projects are run at or reduced by a normal financial item. In normal condition, when there were sufficient resources for the Directorate, the Directorate runs around 850 projects throughout Slovenia. Now we cannot say because these seven are now running, but the situation in Slovenia is fine. Only so that we get a sense of what order of size and how many problems this investment maintenance poses in the road area. Every year, as I mentioned, about 850 projects are carried out in Slovenia at the Directorate for Transport and Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Again, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u162	I can only say that I hope that we will have another rebalancing, at least for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? If it doesn't exist, then I'm closing this debate. I am also putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the two amendments of the SDS Group and the four amendments of the New Slovenia Group. Is there a desire to discuss it? Mrs. Janja Attack, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I came by again because I was running out of time, and now maybe I'll have a little more. The Luče ob Savinja railway project has been up to date for many years. Because of the long-term development of Light, it is also so important. The project was carefully planned in accordance with the guidelines of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia and also of the neighbouring municipalities. At the same time, it also meant a good agreement between national and local policy, expertise and citizens. From the adoption of the preparation programme in 2006 until the adoption of the State Spatial Plan Regulation in 2010, the preparation took place in accordance with spatial and transport legislation. Otherwise, since 1994, the Slovenian Directorate has been conducting activities on the investment project of Luče Oblast. Up to now, about half a million, mainly European funds, have been used. In view of the importance of the project and the time poverty of implementation, we propose to remove unnecessary civil anxiety and to continue the construction of the traffic light from 2014 and 2015; and not until 2016, as foreseen in the development programme plan. I ask all Members and Members to reconsider this investment, because the project and the route, which is even anti-floating, have been adopted by four municipal councils, including all ministers of all colours, so far have maintained funding for the project of the flag lights in the state budget. And it's incomprehensible that money is being poured from the countryside to the center again. I fear that there will be fewer available resources in 2016. Because this is a budget in the opposite direction of the development strategy – because if we look at strategically: wood and tourism is supposed to be our perspective, the Austrian border is close – then it is almost necessary in such an area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Four amendments were tabled by the New Slovenia Group solely for the purpose of calling on the Government and especially Minister Omerzel to complete the projects and to pay the contractors for the work done; not for the judicial decisions that will definitely follow if the projects are not executed. These are amendments that require really micro assets, but they have great effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Success will be about as much as I have time. What colleague Attack has said now, I'm sure I've supported and supported such a project all the time. However, I must say that in this case the country is cleverly exploiting the unanimity of the view of driving through the Lights. Although the project is two-layered, it is a solution to high waters and other aspects of traffic management through the Luče. I have a few more seconds, so let me stress that this is about the previous amendment to manage and maintain state roads, not investments. This means that the state will maintain state roads, but it will do so by redistributing funds from investments to maintenance. There's no traffic without maintenance, not at all in the winter. And because of this, I warn, there will be even less investments than planned in the budget; or those planned will be deleted due to the transfer of funds to maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u169	The hall is beautiful to you, too. Is there still a thirst for debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to discuss the proposed amendment to the sub-programme with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Money Refunds for the unemployed and the amendments of the SDS Group. Does anyone want to discuss it? Here you go, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. In the SDS Group, we propose that, given the trends in the labour market, where there is an increase in the number of unemployed in the following year and even in the following year, the funds for compensation for the unemployment benefit should be maintained at least at the level of this year. It is very incomprehensible that the government, in all the trends announced and when there is no economic growth in view, when there are no new jobs in view, is reducing the item once in the budget that allows the unemployed to receive their compensation. In doing so, I would just like to say that today, when we have 118 thousand unemployed in October 2013, it is not at all true, although probably many think that everyone is getting cash benefits or unemployment benefits. Only about 30,000 of those who also receive monetary benefits are left without everyone else. And for these 30,000, irrespective of all the growing unemployment, funds must also be made available in the years and 2014 and 2015. This is a legal provision, which is the right to pay employment contributions. I propose that the government corrects this information or respects our amendment, as it will follow that the rights of the unemployed will have to be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Is there still a wish? Here you go, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u172	Thank you so much for your words, Madam President! Allow one explanation of this amendment or why I and the Group of Positive Slovenia will not support this amendment. To begin with, I will focus on reducing the rights of the unemployed a good year ago when the previous government adopted the Public Finance Balance Act in the National Assembly. At that time, the financial resources at the Reimbursement to the unemployed decreased to 80, 60, 50 %, the maximum time of receipt of the cash refund was reduced, and a new price of EUR 1,050 gross, if I am not mistaken, was also set for a new price of EUR 800 or less than EUR 900 gross. In short, the former government has been reducing the rights of the unemployed, namely unemployment benefits. I believe, and such a commitment is in the coalition treaty or between coalition partners, that the government of Alenka Bratušek will not diminish these rights because in the past there have been too many mistakes in this area. Unfortunately, we are also paying for these mistakes today when we need to amend or correct social protection legislation, in order to try to mitigate the situation of those who are most at risk. On the other hand, I estimate that the financial resources allocated to the budgets under the unemployment allowance item are sufficient, according to the Ministry and Government estimates, for the number of unemployed, as projected in 2015. In addition, let me mention that this government has already adopted certain measures which constitute a greater activation of the unemployed and that financial resources have shifted to active employment policies and incentives for youth employment. You laugh, and I will remind you that we have also accepted in the National Assembly the benefits for those entrepreneurs who will hire young people and in return will not have to pay their share of social security contributions to an employed young person for two years. In short, a number of measures have already been taken, which undoubtedly means greater activation – and also in line with European guidelines – of the incentives for youth employment, which remain the most threatened category today, as regards the number of unemployed. Nine million people, the government of Alenka Bratušek, have been able to vote in Brussels for youth employment or youth employment incentives. We estimate that financial resources will be sufficient, and I really hope, and I want the UMAR forecasts to apply, that economic growth should begin to rise in 2015, which undoubtedly also means incentives for employment. I hope that these forecasts are also based on concrete assumptions, not only on predictions, but on concrete forecasting methodologies. I believe in all the measures that have been taken by this government in the area of incentives for the employment of the unemployed. I believe and faith is the one that remains for us in the final stage, while we have, in my opinion, strong enough arguments that we will do everything possible to reduce the number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Mrs. Romana Tomc, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Really fast. The fact is, you can say anything, the UMAR predicted that unemployment would go up to 120 thousand, and you're reducing the funds. And that's the only fact here. Our amendment is correcting this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u176	I believe you've read the UMAR forecast completely. I have an open internet where it says very clearly that growth is expected to be recorded in 2015. I believe that this also helps to reduce unemployment. If economic growth is higher, then I believe there will be more employees in our country. On the other hand, I have mentioned a number of measures that constitute the activation of the unemployed, and this is also one of the arguments why this government believes and seeks to do everything to reduce the number of unemployed in our country. And one of the measures within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is to make additional contributions or incentives to try to activate those who are recipients of social transfers or cash transfers or financial assistance so that they can become more involved in some activity and not just sit at home and wait to receive the few euros they receive from the Employment Service. In short, many measures speak of the fact that this government has taken unemployment seriously, and I have also mentioned the youth category in particular. From the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has received additional resources to encourage in this area, and I believe that there are enough reasons to remain optimistic and that we believe the forecasts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? So, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the proposed amendment to the sub-programme for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the media and audiovisual culture and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Is there any desire to discuss it? If it doesn't exist, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and debate on the proposed amendment to the sub-programme for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for Media and Audiovisual Culture and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Is there a desire to discuss it? Here you go, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. The Media Act provides that 3% of the collected RTV contribution belongs to media of particular importance in society, in regions or local communities. This provision of the law has not been implemented and therefore the regional media or media providing a programme of particular importance have become in great difficulty. The economic crisis has also reduced own resources due to reduced demand for advertising. Digitalisation has also brought new requirements for regional media. On the other hand, the law requires them to broadcast, do certain broadcasts, which is prescribed by law, and the funds are constantly falling. As a result, Nova Slovenija has tabled an amendment that provides for 2 million funds. The government is also aware of this problem, so it is expected to give a million more resources. I don't know if that's enough, because it's the regional media that's already very rationalising their work, the need to improve their core funds, and digitisation requires a lot of costs. Therefore, I am not sure that an additional million is sufficient, especially since the law also stipulates that it will give 3% of the funds – and these funds are not provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? If not, then I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the Special Part of the supplementary draft budget will be held on Thursday 14 November in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Does anyone want to discuss it? I do not see a desire to discuss, which means that I can conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place on Thursday 14 November in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Moving on to 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. AND 15. It's a day's work. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will carry out joint introductory presentations under those agenda items, as follows: 3. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE GOVERNMENTAL GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE AND THE PUBLIC AGENCY, PUBLIC FUNDS, PUBLIC INSTRUMENTS AND PUBLIC ECONOMIC INSTRUMENTS FOR THE YEAR 2014 4. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE GOVERNMENTAL GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE AND THE PUBLIC AGENCY, PUBLIC FUNDS, PUBLIC INSTRUMENTS AND PUBLIC ECONOMIC INSTRUMENTS FOR THE YEAR 2015 5. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 20146. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2015 7. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON A PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL ENERGY OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR THE YEAR 20148. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL ENERGY OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR 2015 9. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL ENERGY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2014 10. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS OF SLOVENIA FOR 2014 11. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS OF SLOVENIA FOR 2015 12. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON A PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS FOR 2014 13. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF COMPARISON WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS FOR 2015 14. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF COMPARISON WITH THE REAL BUILDING OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2014 AND 15. POINTS — PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF COMPARIENCE WITH THE REAL BUILDINGS OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2015 Proposals for decrees have been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The word will be given to the government's representative, and we'll wait another minute for them to join us. They're already between us, so I'm asking for patience. We can start at this point in the agenda. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. Dear Members! The rules on the real estate of the State provide that the Government shall, after consideration at the meeting, send to the National Assembly for final adoption a proposal for a plan for the management of the immovable property of the State and a proposal for a plan for the management of the movable property of the State for the following year. Both proposals, both plans of the Government shall be forwarded to the National Assembly together with the Draft State Budget. The plan shall be prepared for the public administration, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds from the state sphere and shall be drawn up by nomotechnical means in the form of a decree of the National Assembly. Although two separate plans are a plan for the management of immovable property and a plan for the management of movable property, they are prepared within one single decision in accordance with established practice. In doing so, all the property envisaged for purchase or sale shall be included in the management plan, and only those movements whose value exceeds EUR 10 000. In line with these starting points, a proposal for a regulation on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2014. It is important to point out that its essential part of the table, which contains lists of immovable and movable property to be dealt with by state-level operators in 2014 and 2015. It should be clarified that these tables are prepared on the basis of proposals made by individual operators who are fully independent in their management of real property. Let me add some numbers to the end of the 2014 speech. Taking into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan in 2014, we are jointly planning almost 245 million and half revenues from real estate sales and, on the other hand, we are planning to spend almost 110 million euros in 2014 for real estate purchases. With the adoption of the proposed decree, the National Assembly will enable real estate managers to handle their assets in a smooth and cost-effective manner in 2014. As for 2014, the 2015 plan is prepared in the form of real estate and movable property tables. The figures for 2015 are as follows; it is planned for a good 69 million and a half revenue from the sale of real property and, on the other hand, for purchases of real property in 2015 we are planning a poor 52 million euros in expenditure. The planned purchases and sales for 2015 – this also needs to be stressed – are not definitive, as the plan under consideration will change and complement or even be replaced by a new one when the budget is adopted for 2015 and 2016. And now there's something else about plans to deal with the state's assets for other state authorities for the next two years. Based on the principle of the division of government rules on real estate, the Government provides for plans for the management of immovable property and plans for the management of movable property to be forwarded to the National Assembly on their proposals. Other public authorities include all those bodies which are members of the legislative branch of power or who are given the status of independent bodies by the Constitution and the law. For reasons of independence, the Government does not have the right to make a substantive assessment of the proposals submitted by these authorities on their own. I would also like to say that most of the other state authorities have drawn up proposals for the 2014 and 2015 resolutions. In doing so, the real estate management plan for 2014 was prepared only by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which plans to sell three properties at an indicative value of EUR 326 000 800. The other applicants have prepared only plans for the management of movable property and the financial aspects of these plans are negligible compared to government. In this way, in 2014 all of the proposed proposals under consideration will jointly spend a good EUR 381,000; a total of EUR 357 000 would be needed for the purchase of movable property in 2015. The sale of movable property is related to movements whose indicative value exceeds EUR 10 000, and other state authorities are not planning to do so in the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The motions for resolutions have been considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother, and I give the floor to Vice-President Jasmine Opec to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will present the report of the parent working body on 13 proposals for decisions on the real estate management plan together. At its 16th session, the Committee on Justice considered the proposals of the decrees submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration pursuant to Articles 11 and 13 of the Real Estate Act and the Local Self-Governmental Communities and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 1. Ten. 2013 The representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Ms Tina Brecelj, added to the proposals for decisions on the State's real estate management plan for public administration and judicial authorities and public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions for 2014 and 2015. It stated that the plans for the management of movable property and the plan for the management of immovable property are two separate plans, but are being prepared within one decree in accordance with established practice. In doing so, the plan shall include all the property envisaged for purchase or sale; and only those movements whose value exceeds EUR 10 000. It pointed out that in 2014, real estate purchases amount to €57 million, real estate sales revenues amount to €226 million, movable purchases amount to €52 million, and real estate revenues amount to around €19 million. It takes into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan plans EUR 245 million in 2014 and would spend EUR 110 million in 2014 on real estate purchases. In a presentation of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, the representative of the Council of State, Mr Jernej Verbič, said that the Commission had taken note of the proposed decisions and had no comments on them. He stressed that the members of the Commission supported the proposaler's efforts to simplify and rationalise the planning procedures and to have the country's real assets in the light of good governance. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, from which it follows that the Legislative and Legal Service has examined the proposals for decisions in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and the draft decisions have no comments. They only pointed out that editorial corrections would have to be made in the title and in the text of certain decrees, which the Legislative and Legal Service would do in the final edition before publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Justice has adopted the Committee's amendments to the Proposal for a Decree on the State Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Agencies, Public Funds, Public Institutions and Public Economic Institutions for 2014; to the Proposal for a Decision on the Real Property Management Plan of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and to the Proposal for a Decision on the Real Property Management Plan of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the texts of the amended resolutions in which the amendments adopted are incorporated are prepared for these motions. With regard to the other motions for a decree, the amendments in the home and working bodies were not adopted, and the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly proposes that the proposals be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will be the first to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u184	Your Honor! The proposed decisions on the real estate management plan, owned by the State or State authorities, are part of the normal component of the budget documents, which are usually not much debate. The government plans more than EUR 245 million of income from the sale of immovable and movable property in the proposed documents in 2014, while almost EUR 110 million is foreseen for the purchase of such assets. For 2015, the figures, at least as regards sales revenue, are significantly lower. There are projected poor €70 million for the sale of real property. In principle, we have no problems with the proposed decisions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. However, we can ask ourselves whether the estimated values of property owned by the State are real. In assessing the value of real estate, account shall be taken of the general market value of real estates found on the basis of the mass valuation of real estates, which – as has been said recently in the real estate tax debate – in a number of cases does not reflect the real situation. In addition, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we ask what will happen to other immovable property owned by national authorities or institutions after the possible adoption and enforcement of the Real Estate Tax Act. Whether the State will launch a mass sale of its immovable property, or whether the State authorities will have to cancel maintenance and other investments due to the obligation to pay the property tax. In our opinion, we have not received these answers in the framework of the night debate on property taxes or elsewhere. It is quite possible that state institutions will have to reduce expenditure on their operations in order to find funds to pay that tax. Let me return to the relevant decisions on the management of the State's real estate. For the reasons already stated, we do not support the proposed budgets for the next two years. With regard to the proposed decisions, however, we estimate that we should pursue the principle of good governance even more, but we will not oppose their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u185	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good bye to all of you! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposals for decisions on the real estate management plan for 2014 and 2015, presented on the home working body. The government has drawn up proposals for 13 decisions on real estate management plans for the purpose of careful use of funds. This fulfils the legal criterion that allows operators to continue to have real estate. The Legislative and Legal Service has no comments in terms of its competence to the proposed decisions. The tables annexed to the individual decrees shall be properly structured according to the legal requirements and shall show, on the one hand, the acquisition of funds on the basis of planned sales and the use of funds for the purchase of movable or immovable property. In doing so, let us note that the balance and soundness of public finances depends not only on the sale of state property but on the overall handling of real property, that is, the sale, purchases and surrender of real property — whether movable or immovable. Since we are in a period of strict austerity measures, in the DeSUS Group we are convinced that it is absolutely necessary to cut all unnecessary purchases on the expenditure side, and we mean vehicles. Let me be allowed to say that there is a public transport which should be served to the fullest extent possible by all, without exception, including officials and staff at the highest level. In the DeSUS Group, we find that the Government has thoroughly examined the expenditure side of real property in the proposals for decisions, although we have doubts that it is still too small for the purchase of the envisaged vehicles in 2014 and 2015. 22 million euros. Just as much money – €22 million – is also intended for purchases to maintain information equipment. We ask ourselves whether we really need all these supplies in order not to endanger the entire fleet and information support in these institutions during this austerity period. However, in the DeSUS Group, we are the advocates of the need to save money and that this requires denials so that we can finally get closer to the macroeconomic objectives and stabilising the use of public funds. Members of the DeSUS Group will support these motions of decrees, but we still expect responsible, rational and prudent treatment in the possession of real property, in particular in the procurement of vehicles and information equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Real Estate Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities constitute the legal basis for issuing an annual decision on the real estate management plan, which means, in other words, that the property managers of the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up each year a plan of movable and immovable property intended for alienation and, at the same time, a plan for the acquisition of property. These plans of all asset managers shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and shall draw up the content of the annual decision on the asset management plan to be submitted to the Assembly at the same time as the State budget proposal. This year’s decree is also accompanied by a collection or table of all assets intended for the disposal or planned purchase of such assets. This year's prepared decisions, plans allow for the most transparent and simple record of the real estate of the country, both in the area of real estate and movable property. In the motions of the decrees, it is the property that the state does not need and represents surplus assets for its operation. Such property is therefore willing to sell or rent it to an economy or individuals if it is felt that they will manage it better than they do themselves. On this occasion, however, I would call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to revise the real property management strategy so that it is more economical or economical and, above all, more transparent. The strategy should enable the State to manage its real estate transparently in a way that offers all those properties that it does not need to operate to buy out or rent an economy and also to those with an entrepreneurial mindset, or to transfer them to the municipalities where they will use them to realize the public interest. We will not oppose the proposals in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramšak will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A respected secretary of state with a co-worker. In the introductory part, I will give the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on all 13 decrees for 2014 as well as 2015. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have examined all 13 decisions on the management of real property, it is said that it is movable and immovable, we have examined in detail, and we have no significant comments on it. The Secretary of State has already focused on the legal basis and technical explanations on the working body and has now focused on the content of the decrees in the introduction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we join the opinion of the State Council Committee on National Arrangements that the assessment and determination of indicative values determined by the operator when choosing the method of handling real property – let me recall that these are procedures relating to direct contracts, public auctions, public bidding – often complex and long-term. In practice, the gap between planned revenues and realised revenues is large or the implementation of the decisions is extremely small. In the future, we feel that it might be good to have a separate review of the plan for the acquisition of real estate or for the distribution of land or buildings, as well as for the parts of buildings for the city’s municipalities. We support all proposals aimed at simplifying the rationalisation of planning and management procedures with the real property of the country in the light of good governance. All asset managers should also act in the light of a good master, especially at a time when we are facing a high budgetary deficit, when there is no economic growth, when we have about 120 000 unemployed persons and the difficulties of citizens and citizens are greater from day to day. I should therefore be allowed, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, to draw attention to the fact that some operators plan to purchase vehicles, and this does not, in our opinion, follow the principle of a good master. Let me mention the planned acquisition of a vehicle at the Office of the Ombudsman amounting to EUR 24 000 for 2014 and at the same amount in 2015. The Court of Auditors for the purchase of two service vehicles in 2014 plans a total of EUR 45 000 to replace two service vehicles whose replacement is economic and justified in terms of safety at work and the reduction of maintenance and servicing costs for them. They are also planning to purchase two vehicles in 2015, one of which is €10,000 and the other of which is €30,000. In 2015, the State Audit Commission plans to purchase a vehicle worth €15 000 790. In 2014, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia included the purchase of a passenger vehicle of EUR 23 000 in the capital plan, and the purchase of a vehicle is expected to be at the same level in 2015. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are therefore wondering whether all these purchases of vehicles are justified, whether they are economic or whether they are in the light of a good master. Or police officers with their long-term vehicles do not endanger their safety and safety of other road users and there is insufficient means for them to obtain vehicles. We anticipate that the Government will not support the amendment with which we in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group wanted certain financial resources to be returned to the Police. We are also giving governments and ministries the initiative to re-examine and examine whether certain ministries are entitled to rent expensive properties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will not oppose the adoption of decisions, nor will we support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u192	Thank you very much, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greetings. In the introduction, I should like to say that Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the proposed documents. As a general rule, when preparing the draft budget for each year, an act shall also be drawn up at the same time as that in which the real estate management of the budgetary users is planned. Plans for real estate management for public administrations and judicial authorities and public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions are generally extensive. All plots, titles, squares, orientation values and so on are written down. Some data are repeated from year to year. For 2014, revenues from the sale of real property are estimated at EUR 245 million, while for the purchase of real property, the expected assets amount to EUR 109 million. For 2015, the estimates are much lower, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, which is understandable. The implementation of the decisions is small, and it is not possible to ignore the fact that these procedures are complex and long-term. It will be necessary, if I say so, to roll up my sleeves and take a serious approach to simplification and rationalisation and thus improve the collection of the previously planned revenues. The debate on the proposed budget, particularly for 2014, was a little more critical from the opposition parties than from our own. We, Social Democrats, too, are not most satisfied with the state of public finances, so on this occasion I would like to invite the state authorities, which in their 2014 decrees have planned funds for the purchase of personal cars to reconsider whether the purchase of new cars is really necessary. Would we not move the purchase of these to the next year or year, when the situation improves, because we often hear reports of reckless spending of taxpayers' money and the unsatisfactory situation of individual groups of our citizens and citizens. As far as the acquisition of information technology is concerned, the following is true. Information systems are becoming increasingly burdened, even as we all strive to ensure that as many matters as possible can be done remotely or from home, regardless of time, and that the content of the activities of individual bodies is accessible to all. We like to say that operation and business will be transparent. From this point of view, we must strive to ensure that the information systems are as reliable as possible and that they are also compatible between national authorities. Respectable. As I have already announced in the introduction, the Social Democrats will support the proposals for resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u193	We have concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and a joint introductory presentation on all the proposals for resolutions. No amendments have been adopted by the home working body to the proposals for resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the agenda, and therefore no amendments can be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, these proposals will be decided on Thursday 14 November 2013 in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8, 9, 10th, 11, 12, 13, 14th and 15th items of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, here present State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u194	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is a key law related to the ongoing and smooth implementation of budgets for the next two years. The law follows the substantive framework of the Public Finance Act and also summarises the provisions of previous laws governing the implementation of the budget. To date, individual provisions are necessary to prevent the emergence of a legal void and resulting damage that would be difficult to remedy. Since the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets is adopted every year and the proposed law is also based on the content laid down in the law for 2013, I will continue to present only the key amendments that have to be laid down in the new bill compared to the current one. The first major amendment is provided for in Article 7, which empowers the Government to abolish, under certain conditions, the enforceable decision to co-finance the project by means of the European Cohesion Policy. The reason for the proposed regulation is only in the interest of Slovenia, in the financial perspective 2007-2013, to draw as many European funds as possible. Furthermore, in all the provisions governing the reallocation of funds, the scope of the redistribution allowed is reduced, but this does not affect the extent of the reallocation between, on and from payment accounts. This scope was agreed with the unions in May this year. However, the law also takes into account all other agreements reached with trade unions, which also apply for 2014. In the area of debt, the draft law does not contain new substantive solutions; the maximum permissible level of indebtedness is newly established, given the projected level of revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2014 and 2015. With regard to the financing of municipalities, the proposed law sets an average for 2014 to the extent laid down in the agreement with the Community Association concluded last year. For 2015, the Government has not yet been able to reach an agreement and the average is set taking into account the commitment to reduce budget expenditure in the coming years. In view of the need to reduce the expenditure of the country's budget, Article 46 also provides for the reduction of funds for the investments of municipalities to 2% of the total eligible expenditure. This is only one part of investment funds, i.e. investment transfers. In order to avoid any difficulties that municipalities may have in carrying out projects already started, the proposed law in Article 76 provides that additional funds shall be provided to municipalities if the projects are ongoing and they already have contracts with the contractor on the date of implementation of this law. The new Article 50, which deals more precisely and further with the restrictions on public sector employment, is to impose on all indirect users of the budget the mandatory preparation of staff plans with a view to reducing the number of employees by 1% for indirect users of the budget under the responsibility of each direct user during 2014. With a view to reducing the expenditure of the budget, Articles 55 and 56 of the Law provide that pensions and other benefits recognised under the rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and transfers to individuals and households shall not be reconciled until the end of 2015. The amount of the annual pension allowance shall also be determined at a level which will be paid to a different extent according to the amount of the pension. Your Honor, this was only a brief summary of a rather extensive proposal for a law. It is closely linked to the adoption of state budgets for 2014 and 2015 and allows their implementation. It takes into account all the above, with regard to the key content of the law, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law, as established at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, support both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. That's a nice hello to you all. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 71st emergency meeting. 11. 2013 has also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. We have received a lot of material that is evident from the report, and we have also received an amendment from the SDS Group of Members, the coalition parliamentary groups, the SLS, which are also visible from the report. In addition, we have received two amendments to the Committee for new paragraphs 15a and 63 of the legislative proposal and a review of all the amendments tabled. The Legislative and Legal Service notes that the proposal largely summarises the determination of previous laws, which means that the text re-inserts the content which exceeds the subject of the law governing the implementation of the budget for each year; the intervention content which is covered by intervention laws; the content which is of a systemic nature; and the content which exceeds the time limit of the budget law. It also made specific comments to that report on a significant number of articles. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service were present. As part of her presentation of her written opinion, she drew particular attention to the general part of the opinion concerning the two constitutional warnings. First of all, the inclusion in the content of the law governing the implementation of the budget was highlighted and, following the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, it is also important from a constitutional point of view and has a constitutional weight, since unlimited classification may lead to unacceptable legal consequences. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further said that most of the specific comments tabled by the amendments tabled by the four groups of Members were taken into account. It added its comment to the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 63, which had not initially been taken into account, and was saved by the amendment of the Committee to Article 63. The debate raised questions that this law gave too many rights to reallocation within individual budgetary users, that the scope of the debt was alarmingly anticipated. A position on the privileged position of the capital vis-à-vis the other municipalities was also presented. The requirement for an urgent final implementation of the constitutionally adopted fiscal rule in the relevant legislation was also expressed. The position of the Association of Municipalities was also presented, under which the law in question, when reducing funds for investments in the consumption of municipalities in 2014, and by abolishing investment funds for 2015, affects to the greatest extent precisely the weakest areas. The Minister of Finance explained to the Committee that the text on the fiscal rule under preparation would be transmitted briefly to the National Assembly. With regard to the increase in indebtedness, it was said that compared to last year's law on the implementation of the budget, there is only a difference in the part relating to the recapitalisation of banks and that the amount needed for this purpose is increased due to possible additional flexibility. Regarding the content that does not belong to ZIPRO, the representative of the Finance Ministry said that after careful consideration of the consequences, if the latter would not have entered the ZIPRO, due to other legal gaps, it would be more difficult. She added that, as far as possible, the applicant would avoid such content in the future. Regarding the redistribution of rights, it was said that these were reduced by half, and the municipalities were also told that this would be discussed at other levels. We have adopted amendments to Article 15a and Article 63 of the Committee. We have also adopted amendments to the coalition groups that are transparent in the Communication. However, we did not accept the amendments of the SDS and SLS. Two of them have become irrelevant. After the final vote, we voted on all the articles and, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we prepared a supplementary text of the proposal, including the amendments we have adopted. We propose to the National Assembly to adopt the text as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u198	Your Honors are here! In this government mandate, through the policy of drafting this law, which is an integral part of the budget, it introduces an increasing number of exceptions and additional provisions, which of course do not belong there. For example, increasing the possibility of redistribution. Direct users, management bodies, ministries, governments can redistribute. Virtually everyone can actively redistribute money. Let's be honest, it's a lot of money. Members of the Slovenian People's Party ask ourselves why we are still drawing up and adopting the budget, but if there is an ever-increasing redistribution of funds. We have come to this stage that Minister Virant provides a wage difference for public servants, wages are regulated through internal transfers, as agreed months ago. If we add up all the optional duties that the government has defined in this law, we will come up with almost €10 billion of potential debt with different objectives and needs. Of course, the State will not be indebted to this extent, but given the additional resources needed to remedy the banking system, this figure will still be very high. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we really hope that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance will study very well how they will be indebted and under what conditions. There's no doubt we'll get the money, but at what cost. The interest rate required by investors in Slovenian debt securities will reach around 6 % can be even higher. This is, with all due respect, very sad because, according to such interest rates, countries with the lowest level of trust fall on the tail of economic development, such as some countries in sub-Saharan Africa. It is sad that we are in this society, but this interest rate reflects the trust of the foreign to our country and to our policy. Of course, there is no such confidence, even though the President of the Government of this House yesterday has given us a different impression, these required contributions carry a very clear message from abroad. So far, we don't believe your plans to consolidate public finances, we don't believe your reform agenda, we don't believe your country's governance agenda. The next unfair thing contained in this law, which is why we also deny support for this law – if there are no proper amendments – with last year's Public Finance Balance Act, has already been denied in agreement with the government and in the light of the economic crisis of the Slovenian municipality almost EUR 200 million of state money. With the new decline in the average in 2015, you are further reducing their funds by this law. The percentage of co-financing of investments to municipalities is also halved. And since the quota for adequate spending is distributed according to the Development Hazard Index, the most affected municipalities with many surfaces per capita or those already in developmental retardation will be affected. By the way, Ljubljana, Domžalé, Logatec and any other city council will virtually not feel this action. We really need to ask ourselves what country we want. Maybe one where we'll all be snorkeling in big towns, where everything will be centralized, and where they'll decide everything from one city to another. For such measures are not only a plan to reduce the number of municipalities at the wishes of Minister Virant, but a systematic destruction of the Slovenian countryside. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party deny support for such measures and also for this law, at least until the moment that government proves that it can save, even in itself and in the organisation of its apparatus, not only on citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The representative of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, as we estimate that it is so ready for adoption in the National Assembly and is suitable for the implementation of the budgets. In accordance with the rule of law of the State budget, the adoption and implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which provides for the current and smooth implementation of the budget adopted, is essential. By its very nature, the draft law is the so-called legislative act of special status, as it is a so-called implementing procedural act, which tells us how the budget will be implemented over the next two years. We are aware that the adoption of all three acts – the 2014 and 2015 budget and the 2014 and 2015 budget implementation law – should generally coincide, otherwise the implementation of the planned financial spending is not possible. Why am I bringing this up? Since it has been a tendency for the last few years to lay down and regulate the rights of a material nature by means of the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget, which is not the main purpose of this Act. Under this law, too often the rights in the pension, social, tax or economic field are affected. Members of the DeSUS believe and warn that such action must by no means become a practice, a constant in the legislative body. Otherwise, the main solutions to this proposal are the urgent adoption of measures to consolidate public finances and reduce public financial expenditure. In order to revive the economy and the so-called exit from the crisis, there is certainly an urgent need for action. These measures are as follows: reducing the cost of co-financing investments to municipalities that represent a large part of budget expenditure; eliminating the valorisation of pensions and social transfers; and reducing public sector employees. Our Group of Members has given particular attention to the provisions relating to pension and social work. This prolongs the period of full freezing of the coordination of these rights until 2016. In doing so, we cannot go beyond the comments, i.e. A "flower" that sometimes comes out of the mouth of government representatives, how pensioners should finally contribute to the stabilisation of public finances. Not only have pensions been completely frozen or partially frozen in recent years, that pensions actually fall, but pensioners have contributed their share to the pension register since 2000, since the then pension reform. And we don't allow you to be anyone, whoever it is, to even think about such "flowers" as they are to be spoken in public. The law also speaks in part of the provision of funds to PPIZ by Kada. It took a lot of effort on our part to introduce into the legal provisions a protector concerning Kadov's property when the Law on the Slovenian State Holding was adopted. It clearly states that Kada owes ZPIZ 50 million euros each year for the coordination of pensions and that Kadu owns 10% of the purchase from the sold state property, it is capital investment. And the intensities of each power, irrespective of political affiliation, are cut into assets which are essentially designed to ensure the stability of the pension system in the long term. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will not be allowed to do so. I stress this because again the Government's proposal that when assets are fully exhausted, we are talking about the amendment of the SDH Act. We insist on transferring 50 million and transferring 10% of the purchase from the sale of capital investments in the state ownership of the Slovenian State Holding Company to the KAD. The identification of the ZIPRS proposal now provides and provides a legal basis for revitalising this provision, which we have coordinated with great efforts in the framework of the SDH negotiations. As we have already announced in the introduction, Members of the DeSUS will contribute to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker! Instead of the introduction, I should say that, because of the criticism by the coalition party, Members of New Slovenia expected Christian Democrats to receive a new structure, a new content, this time the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Why? Because now the Prime Minister is Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who was once the Director-General of the Budget Directorate, who was entrusted to her in the 2004-2008 mandate. Now we have all kinds of things in this marriage, and that's not good. This was once also a criticism of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Let me get on with it. The budget implementation law for 2014 and 2015 shows a poor public financial picture of the country over the next two financial years. Despite the numerous additional tax and other burdens on the population and, in particular, on the economies, the budget expenditure will exceed budgetary revenues in a strong way over the next two years. A new responsibility will be needed to cover current consumption, and in particular to implement bank recovery, where the final price for these purposes will be known after the results of stress tests have been obtained. We are confident that the planned debt, as demonstrated by this bill – this is almost 5 billion in the following year and 2.7 billion in 2015 – together with a permissible additional debt for the purpose of rehabilitation of banks after 2 billion each year will not be sufficient. During the budget debate in Nova Slovenija, we pointed out that the new tax and other burdens are not the solution to the exit from the economic and financial crisis. The government should address the expenditure sides of the budget through systemic measures and the current government has done virtually nothing so far. With the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the government limits the budgetary expenditure for public servants' salaries, pensions and social transfers. This preserves the state of public financial expenditure at the current level. Such a state of expenditure is not sustainable in the long run, and that is the problem. And any delay in systemic measures means prolonging the public financial crisis and prolonging agony. The increased value added tax rates at an overall rate of 22% and at a reduced level of 9,5 %, which is maintained by the current proposal for a further two fiscal years, will further result in a fall in private consumption and a further cessation of gross domestic product. In Novi Slovenija we are concerned about the consequences of the measures that interfere with the financial situation of municipalities in the financial years 2014 and 2015, in particular small and rural municipalities. We are extremely critical of government action here. The first negative measure is the average, which remains at the level of this year for 2014, which is €536 and decreases to €525 for 2015. Many congregations will no longer be able to cover the expenses imposed on them by law, as a result of a reduction in income. More. Funds for co-financing the investments of municipalities from the previous 4% to 2% of the total appropriate consumption of municipalities are also being reduced. In doing so, the government forgets that more than 70% of all investments in the country co-financed by the European Union are made through municipalities. The reduction in funds for these purposes also means less investment in the country and consequently a reduction in economic activity, particularly for smaller economic operators that are local investors. Such measures also involve redistribution of funds between municipalities, taking funds and giving them to larger municipalities. In New Slovenia we strongly oppose such measures, so there will be no support for the law that stops this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Osterman has the floor of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, Your Honor. The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a technical law. As only the name indicates and as such enables the implementation of the budget. It is a condition for the submission of the budget to the National Assembly to be accompanied by amendments to the rules supporting individual reduced budget lines or rights. In view of the legal nature of the State budget, it is also necessary to amend the state budget by amending the law governing the implementation of the budget, since the ordinary law regulates the extent of the State's debt, the extent of the State's guarantees and the extent of the public sector's indebtedness at state level. The main solutions to the proposed law on the implementation of the budget are: the extent of government debt and permitted guarantees; the extent of public sector debt at national level; the regulation of the special powers of the Government and the Minister of Finance for the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budget, which are important for the government's indebtedness under the fiscal stabiliser; the extent of the obligations that individual users can assume in the current year and the payment is due in the coming years; it contains measures to consolidate public finances and measures to reduce public expenditure. Here I must mention that the measures governing expenditure are certainly not like. No one is satisfied if something is taken, is saved, and so are we. However, the measures stem from commitments, the stability programme and the implementation of the fiscal rule. The general public financial situation of the State should also be taken into account. The measures provided for in the Law on the implementation of the budget are therefore not welcome and are necessary. These measures are expenditure on co-financing investments to municipalities, eliminating the valorisation of pensions and social transfers, and reducing public sector employees. As we have said many times, we will announce in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and for 2015 we will adopt. We are aware, however, that the adoption of both budgets without the adoption of a law governing their enforcement is only half of the work done. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will adopt and support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Romana Tomc have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Budget Implementation Act is a technical law that monitors each budget. As the name already says, the law is the basis for the budget to be implemented at all. But over the years, he's become everything before that. Thus, it is no longer just the procedures for the implementation of the budget, but also a number of other very important substantive issues, as well as anything that has been forgotten to settle in another law. For example, we also have an RTV subscription in ZIPRO and many other content that do not belong to me. It is important to pay very close attention to individual provisions, since the applicants in this law often hide also what things they would like to see that no one sees them. This is also true for ZIPRO, which monitors the 2014 and 2015 budgets. With regard to the content itself, I would like to draw attention to seven key points. First – debt. ZIPRO allows the country to be in charge of almost €10 billion over the next year. Second, employment in the public sector and salaries of public servants. ZIPro allows the funds available to budgetary users for material costs to be used for salaries as well. However, the human resources plans should be drawn up in such a way that a reduction in the total number of employees is planned to be only 1%. These solutions reflect the results of government negotiations with public sector unions. We estimate that the real area of public sector rationalisation is one of those areas where the Government has made it very clear that, despite the increasingly unsustainable situation in the public sector, it will not be significantly affected. ZIPro intervenes in the financing of municipalities and reduces their funds for co-financing investments. According to the opinion of the municipalities, the weakest areas of Slovenia are the most affected and, contrary to the general decline, the position of the Municipality of Ljubljana is relatively improving, according to our assessment. When these provisions were addressed, there was complete confusion on the home committee, as the government and the coalition were not united in interpreting the financial implications of the proposed amendment. On the contrary, the interpretations were completely diametrically opposite. We have not received the promised calculation to substantiate one or the other explanation from the Government to this day. We can rightly wonder whether the government wants to cover up some of the data. Freeze the coordination of pensions and social transfers. The Income Act has frozen the coordination of the income scale and facilitations, which means higher taxation of all groups of people. Moreover, the coordination of pensions and social transfers is further frozen over the next two years. On the other hand, the Largest Asset Tax Act is being abolished. In the SDS, we also oppose the proposed new arrangement for the provision of funds for the operation of the pension fund. Of course, we agree that part of the assets for the sale of state property are earmarked for pensions, we have also proposed such an arrangement, and in the National Assembly we have co-existed it with the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thus, the current regulation already allows for an additional 10% of the purchase that SDH receives from selling its capital investments, which are defined as SDH assets, in addition to the EUR 50 million provided by Kad for pensions, so we do not see the need for a new regime. We were also surprised by the additional proposals presented by the Coalition on the Finance Committee. And we strongly oppose the possibility that funds from the sale of enterprises will be allocated to the enterprise fund, which is distributed through various subsidies to selected companies. The funds from the sale of investments are primarily intended for repayment of debts. It is unacceptable that, on the one hand, the country is increasingly and increasingly in debt and, on the other hand, the funds that could reduce its indebtedness would be allocated to subsidisation and lending to businesses. In the SDS Group, we believe that the ZIPRO proposal contains some extremely harmful provisions, so we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u208	Ladies and gentlemen. The basic objective of the Law on the implementation of the budget is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget for 2014 and 2015. This law also regulates the specific powers of the Government and the Ministry responsible for Finance to implement the 2014 and 2015 budget. Various powers are laid down in this context, particularly for the government's indebtedness under the fiscal stabiliser. Given the need to take measures to consolidate public finances in addition to economic growth recovery measures, the proposed law contains measures to reduce public finances. This law reduces the cost of co-financing investments to municipalities, eliminates the valorisation of pensions and social transfers. The proposed law also lays down the obligation to reduce employees in the public sector. We Social Democrats have tried to introduce a second, high-quality part of the privatisation debate into the debate on the draft law on budget implementation – and this is the debate on what privatisation purchases will be intended for. Therefore, the coalition proposed and, at the Finance Committee last weekend, voted a supplement to a law whereby the Government, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, can distribute part of the privatisation funds from purchases to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund in order to finance "start up" and "spin off" enterprises through the call method; for example, to provide funds for workers' cooperatives, cooperatives and similar innovative concepts that change the image of our economy in a certain way. Social Democrats are promising from this title that purchases from national property will not only be used to finance past mistakes, but also to finance new developments, especially in those areas where there is a lack of adequate investment funds today. We believe that in our country, in our community, many talented young people, educated people, who have their ideas, have their own plans, but in this country we do not know well enough to develop mechanisms that will enable young people to develop their entrepreneurial ideas. It is also necessary to strengthen such methods in order to strengthen the function of economic restructuring. In doing so, we have the example of Norway, which in this way can very well encourage technological restructuring of the economy and through various tools and funds to launch new investments for new jobs. The Group of Social Democrats is aware of the difficult situation and the fact that both the budget and the law on the implementation of both budgets mean a reduction or stabilisation of certain benefits, social groups in our country. As we understand that this is necessary to achieve the objectives of fiscal consolidation and to revive economic growth and maintain the existing level of social security, we will [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the law on the implementation of the budget was supported. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u209	Thank you very much. There is also a presentation of the last position of the groups of Members; Mr Marko Pavlisič has the floor of the representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Society List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u210	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. At the last meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on Saturday, 9. 11. 2013, we have considered the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. The debate was intense and long. It has to be acknowledged that it has also been of unexpected quality in parts. Unlike the many debates I have already attended in this high assembly, quite a few reasonable concerns and comments have been raised on this committee, which have indicated the good and bad salaries of the law. The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is a technical law that ensures the implementation of the budget and the budget represents the substantive part of this marital twin. Unfortunately, many members of the committee found that the so-called ZIPRS is increasingly losing in its systemic nature and taking over other functions. It's not the phenomenon of this government, but it was in the past. However, we found some common points on the committee, and one or two such points were thrown out. The technical provision of the law also lays down a new threshold for State indebtedness. Given the still present budget deficit, this border is moving up again for 2014 and decreasing for 2015. Despite these problems, the ZIPRS still serves its purpose, but we must ask Members, law-makers and amendments whether it is not better if the problems we perceive and the promises we make to the voters in our programmes are resolved in laws where they belong, instead of transferring them and hiding them under other laws. In the Civil Gazette, we will hear all the arguments before the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to the amended bill. I am opening the debate on Article 15a and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u212	Madam President, thank you for your floor. The SDS proposes that the amendment tabled by the coalition parties on the Finance Committee be deleted. We have several concerns that we have already expressed on the committee. This amendment suggests that part of the purchases from the sale of state property could be earmarked for an enterprise fund. We estimate that, given the state of public finances and Slovenia's high indebtedness, and about EUR 900 million of interest that Slovenia will pay back in 2014, that this is a very irrational and very uneconomic move to make part of the purchases that should be intended to pay off the debt and are the income of the B balance sheet intended to promote the economy. We are primarily in favour of finding funds that promote the economy, but not from this source. It was even more worrying that the original amendment included that the Government should consider such a proposal only on the proposal of the Minister of Economy. The Minister of Finance also disagreed with the Committee and expressed concerns about the entire general amendment. Above all, it is also problematic for us why the coalition has found the entrepreneurship fund. We know that there are several funds to promote the economy. We estimate that this is a non-transparent matter and that considerable damage will be done here, especially with taxpayers. The Committee on Finance has probably made it very clear that this proposal by the amendment of the coalition is supported by three Members in particular. I felt that the coalition did not fully support him, but especially the Minister himself. It should probably be the minister who decides where the funds will be allocated. Given certain exceptions and the situation in which Slovenia is, I think that the only right decision would be to support the SDS proposal to delete this amendment. Because it can cause a lot of damage. However, we also estimate that with the implementation of this Article there will be considerable non-transparency. It is important that the economy is encouraged to allocate funds, but not from this title. Above all, because Slovenia pays an extremely high interest rate at a given time. Another would be if Slovenia paid a low interest rate. Slovenia's indebtedness on the market is high and something else needs to be found here. We estimate that such a proposal, supported by the Committee on Finance, is harmful and dangerous for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I also see a desire for a debate, and then I open an application for a debate on the amendment tabled by Article 15th. The first submitted to the debate is mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u214	Dear Vice President! This solution, which is proposed and which we want to remove with the amendment, can be understood well-intentioned, but can also be part of one policy. If we look at it well-intentionedly, we have concerns and do not talk about looking at it through the prism of a conscious channel to finance some companies that are close to current politicians. If we look at the well-intentioned solution that we want to delete, this solution is such that money can also be used to encourage certain economic operators, of course under certain rules, selectively, on the basis of a call for proposals where there is a commission, there are some criteria. I have repeatedly pointed out that I oppose a policy where, through horizontal measures, general measures weaken the conditions of employment of businesses and then allocate money selectively to certain economic operators that meet certain criteria. I think that the most responsible economic policy is that it creates favourable conditions for all economic operators to develop, to invest, to create new jobs. And I don't think we're going to invent any warm water in defining what these conditions are: low taxes, low red tape, easy access to capital and so on. I've only made three known to everyone, these are the axioms of the economy. Instead, you're motivating with the rehabilitation of the banking system and by privatizing, as a result, you're raising taxes. I didn't see anything important being done on the anti-birocratic program. However, you are coming up with measures to push this money here and there through the disposal of shares, probably some companies that will prove to be the best at these tenders, such as an EMO toolbox or something like that. I don't think this is a good way to go. However, if we want to stress the distaste of this or one conscious possibility of funding some companies that are close to the government, the issue is even more repugnant. It is clear to all of us that money is gone, there is no subsidy, there is no subsidy, and there is no subsidy, and it is necessary to find such and different – under the terms "light" – ways to help friends in distress. And here you open an opportunity under the gold title of helping the economy to finance friendly companies or companies from some political ties. Madam Minister, if you have had problems with this solution in Article 15a, we oppose these amendments, so we propose that the article be deleted and that the fact that it is primarily devoted to oz remains. allocates money from purchases to reducing public debt or to measures that are relevant to all undertakings. These are measures for the rehabilitation of banks or the recapitalisation of banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. I strongly oppose this amendment for the following reasons. Minister, you're cutting off the integral budget. The integrated budget has been in place in Slovenia for more than 20 years and this has been a great professional achievement in the light of previous regulation. The integrated budget means that all revenue from all headings goes to the budget and, in line with budgetary policy, these revenues are then shared among different ministries, among the different users of these funds. Here I am interested in your opinion whether you support this amendment or not, and what this means from the perspective of the integrated budget. Next thing. With this amendment, you are actually redistributing funds from the accounts of financial claims and investments, the balance of revenue and expenditure. Minister, that's not the way it works. That's why I'm interested in your opinion on this incompetence written in this amendment. Third time. In the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, you do not anticipate certain revenues from the sale of capital investments. Here you have already reserved income for one fund, for one legal person, but you do not know exactly what will happen to these revenues. The question of control is whether they have a control council there, but that's not enough. In this context, I would like to know how you will even control the intention of using these funds, not just the controls. Minister, there's not enough money, and there won't be enough for the pension. These capital investment revenues are expected to be earmarked for pensions. That is why I would like the Government or you, on behalf of the Government, to define yourself to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment under Article 15th? No, no, no. We move on to the next amendment tabled. I am putting Article 39 to the debate. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Would you like to discuss Article 15a?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u218	Chairman, thank you. Since there is a minister with us, perhaps you could tell me how he views this article and the deletion of the SDS amendment. [[adverts from benches]] Unless he can't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Throughout the debate, the Minister shall always have the opportunity to apply for the debate. Are you checking in? Here you go, Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u220	Thank you very much for the question or initiative to explain. In fact, Article 15th, which we have discussed quite extensively on the Committee before, is now much better in the form that it is now made, than it was on the Committee. And as far as I'm concerned, it's acceptable because he has a chance to decide whether or not to suggest this to the government. And this moment, as far as I know, I cannot imagine a situation where I could suggest to the Government that funds that have not yet been realised should also be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u222	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Minister's response, I would like to ask the Minister one additional question. Since you will decide on these options, I ask you when, in what cases, and at what altitude will you decide? Indeed, the law does not lay down any criteria and criteria and leaves everything to subjective judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u223	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u224	I do not see at this moment the way in which I would decide that I could transfer anything to this fund, so that this does not seem essential to the way this budget is implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u226	In view of what the Minister has said, I think that this is an additional argument that the SDS proposal will support this to be deleted, because if I understand the Minister, there are no basic conditions at this point and they will not be for a while. I propose to the entire Parliament that the SDS proposal be supported, in particular in the light of the arguments made by the Minister. If he did not say it directly, I think that, in his words, the Minister has made it very clear that such a proposal is not feasible at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob President has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. About the 15th article was already on the committee, as the Minister said, there was already a lot of debate and, already on the committee, about the same response from Saturday. I therefore support the proposal to delete Article 15th, which has been tabled on the amendment committee itself. I told the board on Saturday that there is something in this marriage that we don't possibly solve with other laws. Last time I said it was about like sorting waste: we have a container for paper, glass, plastic, metal and one container for all the other waste. And ZIPRO seems to be what we don't have anywhere to give, and just in case we put it in this container. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the word
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The law on the implementation of the budget for two years is not a Christmas tree, although we are approaching it. That each parliamentary group will push into this law some of its wishes, whatever we call them, such as to finance one fund from the purchases. Then we see that this is inoperable and that it will never live, it makes no sense. Your Honor, this doesn't make any sense. And there is something else about such provisions. This always reflects as a result of some kilowatt coalition governments, because one party forces something, and then others don't beat it, give it something inoperable inside that it's satisfied, because we did it, we put it in; it doesn't work that way, but who cares. If we are in favor of having some normal legal order, some predictable law that we know what it is for, then I really do not see the slightest reason not to support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate by Article 15.a. And I am opening the debate on the amendment tabled to Article 39, the draft amendment is the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u232	Thank you very much. This Article provides that the Republic of Slovenia will be liable to around EUR 10 billion to cover expenditure on expenditure on revenue of EUR 4.8 billion, to issue debt securities of EUR 1 billion, for 70 million for budget implementation, for intervention on the debt securities market of EUR 1 billion, for the recapitalisation of banks of another 2 million and, in addition, for an additional amount of EUR 1 billion, 600 million for the recapitalisation of banks. And we propose that, above all, the debt to cover revenue surpluses be reduced by €1 billion. Debt policy means that the state will collapse and that with existing taxes it will not be possible to finance all the interest and annuity that the state will have to pay. In addition, a fiscal rule has been adopted which stipulates that as much as it creates can be spent. Unfortunately, the government of Alenka Bratušek has not yet drawn up a law on the implementation of the fiscal rule, which means that if this fiscal rule were to be fulfilled, no such obligation as is proposed here would be necessary. Moreover, this generation has no moral right to place the burden of debts on future generations. We need development, we need a successful economy that we will not get by constantly incurring debt. And here we owe almost EUR 10 billion for various purposes, and there are also various obligations, without even knowing what the banking crater is. Or some know, the government says it does not know, and Banka Slovenije probably does not. At the same time, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party – to in some way stop this debt and adjust the indebtedness to the data contained in the budget – is fully justified. As a result, we propose that this debt gradually decreases. I do not think there is any reason for the other parliamentary parties to this amendment to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u234	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Minister. In fact, the amendment refers to Article 39, which refers to the maximum possible extent of the State's indebtedness for various purposes. The amendment proposes a reduction of the value of a good 4.8 billion debt in 2014 by 1 billion 200 below – that is to say 3.6 billion euros, for a single and simple reason. We believe that it will be possible to get €1 billion 200 – which is earmarked for the recapitalisation of banks in the balance sheet B of the budget, in the measures to help banks start lending or to exceed credit crunches – from privatisation or from privatisation. from the sale of oz. the withdrawal of the State from the economy. If the government is serious about privatising these 15 companies, which are currently in progress and even more of these companies, which will follow the packages forward, then it can expect to buy in the coming year without minimum risks, only if there is a serious political will. And if it is a serious political will, then it is better to make a purchase from these banks to recapitalise the bank rather than to be in expensive debt for the purposes of this recapitalisation and not to spend the purchase on it. I think this is the most rational solution and any normal master would have done it, but I am concerned that the budget in Balance B for next year does not even provide for the euro of privatisation revenue. I don't think that's a coincidence. I don't believe these explanations of government if they're careful not to assume because they don't want to prejudge any revenue. At the same time, however, this is a bad signal to those potential applicants for this privatisation, whether it is political will at all. The political "problem" to this has recently been greatly strengthened and disseminated by some representatives, in particular the Social Democrats, who put, say, the sale of one of these companies – the one that is also the most valuable – is Slovenian Telekom – impossible conditions. The conditions when Telekom is privatized to separate the wires or the infrastructure of business work, that's utopia, you can't do that. At least it can't be done quickly – I'm talking about one year here, and then I'm selling it. And I don't know what we would sell — just contracts? For if you separate the wires from Telekom, I don't know what's left and what's to be sold. Apparently, someone here wants to throw sand at the wheels of this process, which is also one of our commitments and follows from all the recommendations of the international institutions that have looked at us a little bit. That some block that will come – according to the content, we are against privatisation, but will set impossible conditions, is probably just a confirmation that today the SD controls everything in this economy, through the Soda, through Kad and also through some individuals from the youth work of SD. And it's no coincidence they want to preserve these privileges. That they want these ratings of management with a foreign harvest for themselves. That's what you say, pick up what you can get out of these companies, and then why would you privatize it. I think we've all been alerted to this for years, by those who look at us from the outside. And unless we seriously announce that we are ready in this country to remove political leeches from the national economy, then this withdrawal of the country from the economy will never happen and we will continue to impoverish these businesses. The result is that as a result, we will have a really pathetic sales company, for which we will probably have to give something else to take them under our wing. Therefore, the honourable Minister, we really propose that this amount of the maximum possible debt for next year be reduced by a billion 200, for as long as we need to recapitalise the banks, so that this money can be obtained from the sale of two, three of these 15 investments that are on the list for which the proceedings are being conducted. It's real. I am sure if you will be able only to get 1 billion euros from the privatisation of Telekom for the Slovenian budget, I am sure of that. Seven times EBD can be obtained. I don't think it would be weird and you'll find the other 200 million euros anywhere; or if you sell well – even 1 billion 200 just from Telekom. And why taxpayers should continue to suffer political leeches in the management networks of the Slovenian economy and at the same time pay high interest on borrowing or borrowing. The amendment is slightly deeper than it looks, just replacing the two numbers or lowering the two numbers. I think it's legitimate and it's worth supporting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 39? I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to Article 45 and the amendments tabled by the SDS, SLS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? I see the wishes of the debate, so I'm opening applications. You want a procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out, on a procedural basis, that there has been considerable debate on the Committee on Finance in connection with Article 45 and our proposed amendment. Since the coalition and the government have not agreed on the financial implications of our amendment, and have somehow confused us with very diametric answers, we have agreed that the government will provide us with appropriate calculations. So at the beginning of this point, I ask you to do the calculations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u237	Thank you very much. During the discussion on this Article, I will check whether these calculations relating to Article 45 are available.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u238	Madam President, I don't think it makes sense for you to check with technical services whether we have any of these calculations. Two representatives of the Ministry of Finance are sitting in front of us, and they can probably answer immediately whether they sent the calculations or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u239	You are probably talking about the calculations of Article 45 and the discussion in connection with the Municipality of Ljubljana, if I understand you correctly. In this connection, the Ministry of Finance will respond, and the expert will now check on the document you are mentioning. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues. The debate on the amendment to this Article is not possible until calculations have been made. [[advertising from the hall]] It is not possible because calculations on the burdens of municipalities or on the withdrawal of funds for municipalities are essential for the discussion of this amendment, which speaks of funds for municipalities. The debate depends on the foundations. I therefore propose that the meeting be suspended in half an hour to obtain the calculations so that we can hold the debate further. Violence against the National Assembly and democracy is never good. If this was the Committee's decision, then I suggest that this decision be realized, because we now need this calculation, we do not need it according to the point, after the debate, after the votes; but we need it now because we are discussing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u241	Dear Mr. Tanko, do you insist on a vacation? Can the Minister answer? The minister told me he could give me an answer. That's why I was going to suggest that we don't have a break because of this. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u242	I propose that the conclusions of the Committee on Finance be read. Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I will immediately receive a document of the conclusions of the Committee on Finance. There you go. Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u244	Dear Vice President. I understand the pain of SDS when adopting this budget, when it seems that some things are still possible, but they did not want to or knew or wanted to do them. But how you treat government representatives and force government representatives to answer questions over and over again, to some of your statements, to some of your claims. The Rules of Procedure shall specify exactly how the Meeting of the National Assembly is to be held. We have a debate, in the debate the representatives of the Government are involved as they wish and need, without you constantly blackmailing them, dragging them to the floor, stopping the meeting. You spent 21 minutes yesterday on procedural motions. And I also propose, this is my procedural proposal to look at the conclusions of the Committee on Finance. If it follows from these conclusions that the Ministry of Finance must prepare any calculations, prepare them or present them, or otherwise oppose the blackmail of ministers and members of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Kociper, let me say that I have before me the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the consideration of the draft Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015; so-called ZIPRS 2014/2015. The report states on page 6: At the conclusion of the hearing, the Committee voted jointly and adopted all the articles of the proposal on the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. This is stated and I do not have a strictly stated decision in the report or to indicate that this report will be submitted in writing. However, I know that the debate was also this way. First of all, Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u246	To clarify, I say only that a question has been raised by the SDS Group and that a promise has been made from the Ministry of Finance that these calculations will be prepared by the plenary session. However, there was no written conclusion on the subject. Just enough to keep us from looking.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. I now ask whether this promise will be that the Ministry will provide data for the consideration of this agenda item at the meeting on what is applicable. It's not valid. Was this promise made just because the matter had moved for two days and that we would now wander again in the dark? Mr. Minister, now you're the head of the department you're running. You or one of your own have been to a board meeting, and that promise has been made. Now we are just proposing that you do this before we start discussing the congregations, the appropriate consumption of the congregations, or the head of the congregations. Nothing else. And everything else is meaningless right now. If the Ministry is unable to prepare a table examination within two, three days, which was requested and also promised, something is wrong. I don't know what's going on with this. Therefore, I suggest that you cancel the meeting for half an hour to provide information for all municipalities in Slovenia, as promised, so that we can discuss the principals. Otherwise, it's not going to work. This is the minimum standard for discussion in this amendment. Mr Minister, this is our minimum requirement for you to fulfill your promise that we can discuss data in a credible and credible manner. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'm thinking maybe we should cut back on the rest period a little bit. On the basis of your proposal, we will resume the meeting at 5:40 p.m. in fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm adjourning my leave until 6 p.m., so we'll begin at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We are at Article 45 and the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 45, where the meeting was suspended. I propose that, in order to facilitate the continuation of the debate on this amendment, we give the floor first to the representative of the Government and then proceed with the debate. I give the word "magic." Matthew Vraničar to explain or present the answer to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. As I understand it, before the suspension of the meeting, a question was raised to the Government regarding the calculation of the share of income belonging to the capital under the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. The Main City Act itself stipulated that the main place for the implementation or financing of tasks and programmes to be carried out by the municipality because the capital of the Republic of Slovenia in the Municipality of Ljubljana is 0.73% of the income for this purpose. Under the Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budget, provision 6a of the Main City Act was derogated from by a specific provision and a percentage of 0.58 was set in terms of additional savings. Thus, for 2013, the provisions of Article 6a of the Main City Act do not apply. Nor does the Regulation on the methodology for the calculation of the ratio between the estimated costs of financing the tasks and programmes of the capital and the revenue. Taking into account the changed legal situation created by the new draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2014 and 2015, there is no longer a provision in Article 45 which would derogate from Article 6a of the Capital Law. In other words, this means that the calculation of the share of the income, as is the case under the Capital Law, is re-established under Article 6a of the Act. Since the Capital Act provides that the amount of income must be reported and calculated on the basis of the methodology for the month of June of the current year for the following year, and that in 2013 — The Budget Implementation Act is still in force by the end of this year — it is not possible to recalculate in this year the share of income belonging to the Municipality of Ljubljana under the Capital Law [[...]] [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u253	You have the floor, Mrs. Vrančnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u254	It takes into account all of this, for 2014 the share of the income belonging to the capital shall be calculated in accordance with the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. by a percentage of 0.73 %, and in 2014 a new share of the income belonging to the capital will be determined in accordance with the applicable methodology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u255	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor below.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I must admit, the explanation was so exact that every citizen who listened to it on TV could understand it. However, I thank you for writing only to some Members, which means that the other Members have not received this so that at least on paper we can monitor this dissertation of yours. I hope that just as you have tried to ensure that poor Ljubljana will not die because it is the capital and because it has all the institutions because everything is centralised. And for this reason, I hope that you will support the government's coalition to support the minister's giving a green light to these two amendments by Articles 45 and 46 – they are both talking about municipalities. The amendment to Article 45 concerns a change in income, a change in remuneration, from EUR 525 to EUR 536. If a smaller number were to apply, then some 20 million were to be taken to the congregations, even though the congregations had already agreed, since they should have €630,632 according to the ZUJF-1. So they've already agreed to a reduction of 198, almost 200 million euros. For Ljubljana, i.e. the capital, through all matters of turning up and down, you have taken care of it. This was probably also the condition of Mayor Jankovic that he agreed to the move of the Congress of Positive Slovenia. This is how you buy a certain policy, which, unfortunately, you also implement. This is essential that this amendment to Article 45 – and we will also talk later about the amendment to Article 46, about those 2 or 4% of the eligible expenditure under Article 21 – be adopted also because some government Members, the coalition members on the Committee said that the small municipalities between 2007 and 2013, in this financial perspective, had taken great steps forward in the infrastructure. And they say the mayors took care of the good infrastructure and they're people because the infrastructure was built, they stayed in the countryside. Well, this also shows because the vast majority of mayors in Slovenian municipalities are from the Slovenian People's Party, how they can manage if they have executive power in their hands. Today, municipalities are in the process of building sewerage. The mayors are aware that sewerage should be built in accordance with the European Regulation by 2017. Reducing the average and the next article will be a problem because they will not have their own resources. Moreover, the indebtedness of municipalities to people on the average is extremely low in relation to the country's indebtedness. There is another reason for us to accept this amendment; the ZIPRO referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, was also a speech on the committee, but there was no amendment, but I say only as a content – certain contracts will be terminated, which should not be ensured by the dynamics of drawing funds from the Structural Funds, although some contracts are so made that they are already selected operators to draw already. The question is whether in this part the entire ZIPRO will not be contrary to the applicable legislation. Whether such an article is legal, which law allows it, what is the legal institution of enforcement of the decision if the municipalities ensure that it will happen. However, the reason that certain matters are lagging behind is mainly administrative nature, administrative nature to obtain certain consents or even co-sign a contract by the Minister, since in the previous government of the Ministry of Environment and Space Minister Žarnic and also Minister Erjavec have not signed contracts before him. I know about one particular matter, and I will not now name it, because I have asked it several times as a question from the Member State, but it was the abolition or destruction of the Ptuj construction company. This is another reason why this amendment needs to be adopted. The purpose of abolishing the congregations with the formula, as Minister Virant originally intended, would obviously not have succeeded, so he decided or decided in a coalition to stop small congregations through funding. Now you have already imposed, if these two amendments were not adopted, two fatal blows with the 21st Article, with an average, and another fatal blow then awaits us in the Real Estate Act. More will be said by others who have done the analysis, but in some municipalities, in small and rural areas, the appropriate consumption will decrease by about 30% or even more. This is not enough by law and by constitution to provide for the legal and constitutional functions of the congregations. Clearly, then, it means abolishing the congregations. Why did we come into such a phase and into such a budget and into such a ZIPRO, in which you are now sweeping in, lying down and going? Obviously, we have also come because of those who have acted irresponsibly at the time of the previous Pahor's government, who have been in the responsible places, and also President Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government, was in such responsible places when she proposed budgets at the time of the Pahor government with an annual 2 billion debt. We don't know where that money went, and we don't know if anyone's ever gonna be responsible for it. And such a way of leading the country and directly attacking the local community, a direct attack on the municipalities means that the country is in total bankruptcy. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment to Article 45.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u257	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. The State Secretary explained the migration of percentages by one law, according to ZIPRO. However, I would like to have a very clear answer, because the Ljubljana Municipality and the Government probably did not meet on 23 July to specifically agree in Decision No 4 to delete Article 2 paragraph 45 in order to obtain EUR 3.5 million or less, that was the case. Now I'm asking you to explain that in numbers, in euros. Does this mean that if the provision, as is now recorded in the ZIPRO, remains to be obtained by the Municipality of Ljubljana 3.5 million or 3 million euros more than it would have received if an amendment were adopted which puts the matter on the table, as it was before the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is all because there were different interpretations at the board meeting, who gets more or who gets less. An explanation is needed, and this is what we have also requested with the proposal to suspend. The government would be obliged to explain, not only the percentages, because we all know them, but mainly whether this provision gives Ljubljana 3.5 million more in the budget or not. And I suggest you say it very clearly. I don't care if a minister or a secretary of state does it. Whether the existing solution or the amendment is more favourable for Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u259	With regard to this procedural proposal, I would like to remind you, Mr Tanko, that the fifth paragraph of Article 129 speaks of the need for the amendment's proposer to present the financial implications of such an amendment. You probably understand that the Government does not have accurate calculations because it is not the proposer of this amendment. The three amendments, which are also similar in content, are proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. If the Government wishes to respond, it is entirely their free will at this stage, but they are not obliged to provide this information because it is the duty of the amendment's proposer. This is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as I said, the will of the Government is whether it will give this answer or not. If this were an amendment to the government, the situation would be different. You want procedural, Mr. Möderndorfer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u260	Since his colleague Tanko used the procedure to ask a substantive question and, having applied the substantive question, he had already cited certain certain claims that were not genuine. That is why I wonder what the answer will be, especially because it mentions an agreement that is not. And it's an explicit deceiving of both the public and the entire assembly. The Minister must not be interested in any such record. He can't even be interested! Mr Tanko, you provide some semi-real data that works very well and likely, with one goal and one reason to abuse here in some way, you have been doing this for two days, the Rules of Procedure and procedural questions asking substantive questions. Stick to the Rules of Procedure to which you like to refer. Democracy has one fundamental principle, which is that it must take shape first. But form is procedure. Yes, I know your heart hurts, but this heart will have to work especially when you work by the facts of this Rules of Procedure, not by your imaginary rules of procedure. That is why, President, I ask you again and I will keep on asking you again, when we see in advance, that this is a substantive question and not a procedural question, that you should also use the article and also stop, without using 3 minutes to demonstrate some ideas that do not actually have any basis, but at least in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u261	Thank you. This procedural proposal was clear – to present the financial implications of this amendment. And I also gave a clear answer that the Government is not obliged to mediate financial consequences for an amendment which it has not proposed. At this stage in terms of the procedural proposal, at least on my part, I have no doubts; the rest of the content that is in those 3 minutes is always considered to be an explanation of the procedural proposal. That is how we indisputably understand all procedural proposals. Would anyone like to continue the discussion? Ms Masha Kociper now has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u262	It's hard to come up with a procedural proposal, but we're really talking about a procedure. Mr President, I cannot agree with your explanation. The procedural proposal under our Rules of Procedure is intended to deal with the procedure, the individual Member's comments on the progress of the procedure. Mrs Potrata read very well yesterday what the motion for procedure could relate to. As a rule, the Member should even mention the Article of the Rules of Procedure to which it refers, this is a procedural proposal. What has been going on for the last two days for Members to apply for the debate, waiting in line, gentlemen from the SDS, and discussing with procedural proposals, is unacceptable. I am desperate that those Members who respect the Rules of Procedure have no tool against this. Mr Tanko could apply to the debate and, in the debate on the amendment to this content, ask the Government to explain, debate, agree or disagree. This is how one people stick to the rules, apply, wait for their articles; others think of themselves as the most important in the world, and always, when they think they are, come forward and discuss themselves in a substantive way in a procedural proposal. I oppose such practices and propose to be within the framework, for example. Let us define the Commission's rules of procedure up to this practice, which has already fallen apart in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u263	Thank you. There'll be no confusion about that. The President shall always have the right under the Rules of Procedure to decide what is right at the time of the meeting. You probably also understand that sometimes it is very difficult to draw a clear procedural proposal out of the debate. I must admit that in Mr Tank's debate, it was clear to me that it was a matter for the Government to present the financial implications. And that was a procedural proposal. However, for all other procedural proposals, I would like, on behalf of all the Presidents, first of all, to make a procedural or procedural proposal and then explain it. However, with an intermediate interruption, I am causing only additional confusion, because there is always an answer – President, I will finally make a procedural proposal. And that's the problem. It is therefore possible to take the meeting alone and in such a way that the President decides, at the time of the meeting, whether he will give a warning to the one who has abused the Rules of Procedure or not. This happened in those days, so even without reminders. So much for this procedural proposal that has been submitted. But we have two more procedural proposals. Minister, then you probably want a word, if I've got it right. The next one to present a procedural proposal is Mr Tanko. Please try to stick to this practice, to present a procedural proposal and then explain it. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Just a quick answer. Either it's a plus, or it's a minus, nothing else. The Secretary of State, as I've seen, has signed up to explain it, and you've interrupted it. And from here on out, he followed the whole complication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u265	Okay, so you're expecting an answer. Mr. Frangež is giving up, so I can give you the word mags. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u266	If the Capital Act, which provides the capital with an additional share of the income of 0.73%, would mean an annual round of €15 million. If such an amendment, as proposed by the SDS Group, is in place, that the city has 0.58% of the income, then this means for the Ljubljana Municipality a good 12 million euros in income. If the methodology as prescribed by the current regulation had been applied – but I explained earlier that it could not be implemented for 2014 – then the Municipality of Ljubljana would have an asset of EUR 7.6 million. Therefore, for 2014, the amendment is better than if a regulation were in force and cannot be implemented. For 2015, the question is what will be the regulation, what will be the methodology and what percentage will be calculated according to the methodology over the past 4 years. A new percentage for 2015 will be set in June next year if the Regulation can even enter into force. If such an amendment, as proposed for 2014 and 2015 and for 2014 and 2015, derogates from Article 6a of the Main City Act, is applied, it shall remain in force for 2015 for a period of 0.58 % of the income or a good 12 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u267	Thank you. And I can finally give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with colleagues. New Slovenia has tabled an amendment to the updated Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 in order to improve the resolution of the problem of averages. We propose that, as for the financial year 2014, when the average is EUR 536, this same amount remains for the financial year 2015. This bill reduces the government to €525. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to 4 October 2012, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed an agreement last October with the representative associations of municipalities – the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia – on the amount of the average for 2013 and 2014. This was a signed agreement for 2013 and 2014. And now I ask the Government, can I present to the Members a document where, when and how the Government has signed an agreement with representative associations of municipalities on the average 2015 proposed in this law? Because I doubt that this answer is available, because last week I was at the meeting of the Association of Slovene Municipalities in the State Council, the President said that I was the only Member present, although we were all invited. And there the mayors said that they had asked the Prime Minister five times to meet with her, perhaps even six times, as my colleague says. They didn't even get an answer, so total ignorance of local self-government, what else should I call it? Total ignorance. Every smart European government respects the principle of subsidiarity. This is not only respected by those governments that advocate Christian democratic politics, because it is one of the elements of such a policy. All smart governments respect the principle of subsidiarity. In our country, the municipalities "de facto" are being abolished. Perhaps "de jure" not because Mr Virant pulled the manual brake, but "de facto" the municipalities are being abolished. And this is our problem, so we are very sensitive to the reduction of the average for the following year. Colleagues and colleagues, probably not all of them from Ljubljana, but probably from the rural congregation in Maribor, when you come home tomorrow, you will have to tell citizens and citizens what we have accepted or accepted, and explain why less money is being given to the municipalities. For my congregation, this may be a reduction of only EUR 45 000, but the rural congregation can make a very good contribution to each euro. Here we speak of small congregations in relatively small amounts, but for small congregations one euro is precious. Therefore, we do not agree to a reduction in the average for 2015. If I say that the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia was rejected five times by the President of the Government or the Cabinet of President of the Government, we read on the second that the long talks were Bratušek – Jankovic. What they were talking about, I don't care. But probably not about last year's snow. That's why I'm putting this meeting out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u269	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Mag before opening the opportunity to apply for the debate. Matthew the Vranic. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. A concrete question has been raised to the Government and I would like to answer it. We met several times with all three representative congregations. We have discussed several issues, including funding or average for 2014, 2015 and the volume of investment transfers under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act. However, the average level agreement for 2015 was not reached. The Law on the Financing of Municipalities allows us to determine the average amount by the Budget Implementation Act if the Government and the municipality cannot reach agreement on the level of the average. At the last meeting, we agreed to continue discussions with the municipalities within the Ministry, including in connection with the amendment of the Law on Community Financing and the preparation of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities. We will try to reach an agreement in the course of next year by the start of the implementation of the 2015 budget. We still have some time to fix these things. What led us to the proposal to propose a reduction in the average? All agreements that run in connection with public sector wage policy also concern employees financed from municipal budgets. Last year's average did not take into account reductions in expenditure for these purposes for employees in the municipal sphere. As was said today or yesterday in the debate on the 2014 and 2015 budget, we are planning further negotiations with trade unions on the reduction of wages in 2015. This will also affect the municipalities, so we estimate that it is justified to lower the average in this case as well. As it is said, this is a framework for the continuation of talks before the start of 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u271	Thank you. Can we open the application to the debate? Mr. Frangež, would you like to proceed with the procedure? It's a debate. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u272	Mr President, I find that we are in trouble. I am a member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. At the Committee's weekend session, I voted against the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment on the implementation of the budget law in good faith, because the Government then presented the following situation. Since the Methodology Regulation on the calculation of estimated costs - what do I know how to say next - is the income earmarked for Ljubljana or this ratio of 0,37%. Not 0.73%, as stipulated by the law, not 0.58%, as foreseen by the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment. That is why in that situation I opposed the SDS amendment in good faith, that Ljubljana shares the fate of other local communities and that its contribution under the Law on the Capital City is declining. Today at this meeting, I find that because someone has not prepared the calculation of the month of June, there is no other option at this time than for us to recognise the proportion of income that goes under the Main City Act without applying the methodology set out in the above mentioned Regulation and without a calculation that has been set at a third of the value or at least half of the value in the law. This is a serious mess. I am not ready to support the amendment of New Slovenia, because I understand that it follows the objectives which, unfortunately, I cannot agree with in the given situation. However, I would like to allow Members and Members to submit the only correct amendment. And if you ask me, this amendment is only to the second paragraph that Article 6a of the Main City Act of 2014 and 2015 does not apply. Any other solution, ladies and gentlemen, will lead us to reduce the average for all other Slovenian municipalities by consciously taking decisions in the National Assembly, only Ljubljana will balance part of this loss with higher funding as the capital. And that's incorrect. And just because we have been misled, I respectfully ask for the time to submit an appropriate amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u273	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u274	Let me explain again. The average amount for 2014 remains unchanged as agreed last year for 2013 and 2014 with representative associations of municipalities. Indeed, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance after more than 20 hours of discussion, we did not consider the legal aspects of the application of the Regulation and the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Because of the question that we have been asked and agreed to explain today, we have also examined the legal aspects in more detail and have come to the result that I have explained today. It's not about whether someone wanted or didn't want to calculate a certain amount in June. The question is whether he had a legal basis for doing so in June. According to the Ministry of Finance, which was audited by legal experts, the Ministry did not have this legal basis. And the result is what I explained today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u275	Thank you. The next word is Mrs Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u276	I regret that we will once again hold a debate on how to punish the Ljubljana Municipality, which has 300,000 inhabitants, for some apparently political reasons. In the Republic of Slovenia, Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that Ljubljana is the capital of our country and in 2004 the Main City Act, which specifically stipulated that due to the special importance that the Republic of Slovenia has the capital of Ljubljana, must ensure the coordinated exercise of the functions and powers of the state authorities and the municipal authorities. The Law on the Capital specifies what is guaranteed by this law, whose tasks, inter alia, to ensure the conditions for the functioning of bodies, organisations and representations, foreign diplomatic representations, foreign consulates, international organisations. The municipality must use these funds, please listen, intentionally. Just for that. At the time of the Government of Janez Janša in 2007, 60 million euro was taken to the municipality, which is legally entitled to an income supplement of 0.73%. In 2007, the government of Janez Janša decided to punish the Municipality of Ljubljana, taking away 60 million euros. At the time, €60 million represented almost a quarter of the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality. Comrade Frangež, you can imagine, for example, about Maribor, what would happen to Maribor if the government had told him [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u277	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mrs. Kociper. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u278	That's all you have to say about yourself, fellows. What would happen to Maribor if a single act took away a quarter of his budget. No, it's wrong. The government of Alenka Bratušek gave Maribor 66 million euros. Today we are talking about €3 million. And even though Ljubljana was a quarter of the budget, from 2007 to now – I think you all have to admit this – it has advanced in all areas: in terms of infrastructure development, new programmes, programmes in the field of education, art, culture, new bridges, new factories, new kindergartens, roofs for kindergartens, health homes, it has been very large. If we are talking about finances a little bit more, Ljubljana is really further committed to bridging this embarrassment. For these purposes and for other purposes, Ljubljana has been in charge of this period and is now in charge of EUR 468 per capita in Ljubljana. Given the amount of the debt per capita in the Republic of Slovenia, I think we should agree that this is disproportionately less. In the Republic of Slovenia, we also have a established golden fiscal rule for the municipalities, and within this golden fiscal rule, if I name it at home, Ljubljana still has room for additional debt. So she hasn't reached the upper limit yet. And here we will obviously have the entire political conflict, even in the coalition, because our client, who also comes from the polling base of the Ljubljana Municipality, does not allow himself to defend the interests of his electoral base. We all need to understand that one advocates the interests of farmers, one interest of the municipalities, one interest of pensioners who do not allow them to interfere with pension rights at all, one interest of entrepreneurs. However, we must not defend the interests of the 300,000 people of Ljubljana, who, by this provision, simply want to remedy the solution that was created in the second Janša government in the Main City Act by taking in addition to 60 million more than 3.5 million a year by Ljubljana. So I'm not talking about 60 million, but I'm talking about 3.5 additional millions taken by the other government. Now with this rebalancing, this article, which was not even tried in ZIPRS, is just withdrawing. Matevz, you know that. This article did not refer to ZIPRS in any way. That the ZIPRS had annulled the provisions of the Main City Act for the first time. Only this article is now withdrawing and we are in a situation that was ahead of the other Janša government. And that's all I'm going to say, despite the debt that made it possible for Ljubljana to get through this period and that it worked well and you can see the results all and also the citizens, Ljubljana has been working for two years with the budget surplus. For two years now, it has easily covered current lending obligations, and that is only the point of crediting yourself to be credited in a way that you can conceal current liabilities and repay credit. Ljubljana has been recovering this loan easily and has been working for two years with a budget surplus. In 2012, the budget surplus amounted to €496,000,441; in 2013, the budget surplus was already over €1 million. Those who want to be right must admit that there is no basis for punishing the capital of Ljubljana and not only to establish the situation established under the Main City Act. We're not asking you to pay back $60 million because we know they're gone. Nothing but this punishment that Janša's government gave last year and that does not belong to ZIPRS, we have been rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u279	Thank you. Mr. Pavlišič has a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u280	Thank you. With all due respect to Mrs Vraničar, who is very well versed in numbers, and also in view of what colleague Frangež has said, I would nevertheless suggest that we obtain an opinion under Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure on the situation of the Legislative and Legal Service. We have an original law, a capital law, we have a regulation, we have a change to that law, we have a valid ZIPRS, and we have the ZIPRS in place, and we have an amendment. And here I would ask if we could get an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service on this case, so what's valid and what's not when we do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u281	Your procedural proposal will be forwarded to the Legal and Legislative Service. Replica, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u282	Our legislation sets out many things that people, pensioners, recipients of social transfers, public servants, entrepreneurs can see as their rights. Local communities, too! By the way, we are suspending part of these rights through the Law on the Implementation of the Budget or at least stipulating that the extent of access to these rights is somewhat limited due to the public financial situation. Let's just say these transfers don't match. Therefore, do not invoke that something by law is the right of Ljubljana. I agree, Masha Kociper, I was among those who voted in favour of the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. By the way, no one in Maribor forgets to tell me that. When we adopted this law, it was also agreed that the Capital Act would also be followed by a change in the funding of municipalities, which would be followed and recognised by regional centres such as Maribor, as we now recognize the capital in the country with the Capital Act. This has not happened until today, Madam Kociper. I didn't take Ljubljana one cent of the money. However, I believe that in situations where we objectively stabilise the income of local communities from understandable circumstances, at least at the existing level, we cannot do otherwise in the case of Ljubljana, we cannot do otherwise. It's not about hating Ljubljana, it's about making just solutions that have the same vats for everyone. I would like to emphasise one more point when Ljubljana has an 18% unemployment rate and will be in force under the Harmonised Regional Development Act for the Problem Area, it will request appropriate assistance from the State. Maribor did not ask for this because he expects the goodwill of the government of Alenka Bratušek, which I also support, but because this right is given to him by the Law on Harmonized Regional Development. That is why this country has granted particular regional aid to Maribor, not because of goodwill, such or any other government, but because it is an affected economic and social area that needs special development assistance from the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u283	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u284	Thank you very much. There are hard days behind us, and there are hard days ahead of us. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, on account of this unloving event, I ask for a half-time break for consultations in the Group of Members. I hope that it will not be possible for my colleagues against me because of this problem that this coalition will solve without a problem, to eventually break down these coalitions so that we do not accept what is most important to this country. Calm down. I propose a half hour break, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u285	With regard to the proposal for a half-time break for consultation in the parliamentary groups, I propose that we have this pause before we conclude the debate. This is because it is possible to make a decision on the application of the amendments before the conclusion of the debate. However, when I conclude the debate, it is no longer possible to resolve this. However, we have quite a few speakers to discuss, I propose that this debate be held. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u286	I'd like to discuss it on a case-by-case basis. I suggest you support the proposal and order a recess for work in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u287	Thank you. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 19. 25.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u288	Dear Members and Members. I would like to inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service also needs a little more time to draw up an opinion than was proposed in the procedural proposal. That's why we'll continue the meeting at 8:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u289	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work and debate. Mr. Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. During the interruption, you requested an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Then you extended the interruption by half an hour to get an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Now I want to know what the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service is. Will this be an oral, written opinion? Because obviously the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is also highly dependent on the debate in the coalition. The coalition proposed this and demanded it. And I'd really like to ask for information.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u291	I can trust you that I intended to allow the debate to be held by those who have been reported to the debate. If there is no wish to discuss, we would have suspended the meeting by 10 a.m. tomorrow, because in such a short time it was not possible to prepare everything. We can proceed with the debate. I give my word to Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u292	Thank you very much, President. In today's debate on ZIPRS and the presentation of the introductory presentations of the opinions of the groups of Members, I can conclude that there was virtually a common opinion of all Members and Members that ZIPRS was actually a technical act, an implementing act. This was agreed by both the opposition and the coalition. I must say that one of the most juicy comparisons was, both on the Committee on Finance and today in the National Assembly, Mr Presecnik's statement that ZIPRS has become an act to which we are actually giving what we do not really know where to put. It's called some kind of waste. And I completely agree with that. I particularly agree when we are talking precisely about this amendment that is under discussion today. I must remind you that this waste has happened to the government of Janez Janša, in which coalition you have been, and your government has abused this technical ZIPRS to put in there suddenly such an amendment, which is now repeating itself to be in this ZIPRS. Especially because we have laws in existing legislation that regulate these issues. I can say, when we talk about municipalities in general and their funding, we have the Law on Community Financing, where we can solve all the questions about their funding. There, in this marriage. At the same time, when we talk about tasks under the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia, we again have the law and all the grounds to regulate these things there, in what way and how to finance these tasks. However, it is painful, believe me, whenever we talk about Slovenian municipalities, to make comparisons between municipalities that are called urban; between municipalities that meet all the conditions that have been established as provided for by law; and between municipalities that have not met these conditions, however, they have been established; between congregations that are successful; between municipalities that are less successful; between municipalities that are heavily indebted; and between municipalities that are not in debt. In short, I could list all possible differences by tomorrow morning. But one common denominator is certainly, and one congregation cannot be compared with any other congregation. I am not talking about the municipality of Ljubljana, but I am talking about the municipality every time. Ptuj cannot compare with Celje, Celje cannot compare with Kranj, Kranj cannot compare with Maribor, Maribor cannot compare with Ljutomer and so on. And that is why this debate and debate, who is whose and who leads to some mill, is really funny, especially when we are talking about solving these issues and relations within the ZIPS. All the thinking in this direction, how right it is for one amendment to open up in order to solve the key role and solve all problems of Slovenian municipalities, is wrong. Today, we have heard in the debate that promises have been made in the past, and you all know that there have been no debates and debates and attempts to solve these problems, including by setting up landscapes, even by moving certain institutions to certain places, so that we can try to solve the problems; we will not, in fact, try to solve them. Even if we decentralize all the congregations and mix them up, we will not solve this problem. There are all the problems and problems mentioned in other municipalities in the municipality of Ljubljana. In the city municipality we also have farmers, pensioners, students, workers – in short all kinds of segments of society that exist in every congregation. And today, to discuss these differences is in some ways unworthy, not only to the city congregation but to all congregations. It is not appropriate for all municipalities to talk in this way, because what is being tried today and somehow legalized within the ZIPRS, this attitude towards the Municipality of Ljubljana, is, on the other hand, trying to work with all other municipalities. I think it is also right and time for this National Assembly to give a very clear message — not just to this government, every time — to the government. Things should be regulated where this city is; and each area has its own law, where all things are systematically regulated, even within the congregations. I think it is right that we think in this spirit when we vote and decide on this amendment. I can tell you that everyone in the past has lost as much as they have won. Losing and winning – with one goal. Members and Members of Parliament can repeatedly repeat the importance of every human being, a small man in the congregations where they live, no matter where it is. However, what has been happening in this National Assembly for the past few years is to promote special differences in order to establish and find a culprit just to get to their own profit. I think it is time for Members and Members of Parliament to stop doing this. I speak purposefully of the multitude, and I meddle with myself, that there may be no mistake. If ZIPRS is a technical law, then this amendment does not belong to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u293	Thank you, too. The next one will have the word, Mr Jakob Presecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The last time I discussed the matter quite often at the Committee on Finance's meeting on Saturday, but not with regard to Ljubljana, is because my colleague Möderndorfer's accusation was a little tricky. I made this comparison today in connection with Article 15th, which the Minister himself said — I understood it so well — that he could be in law in ZIPRS, but it did not help anything and would probably not use anything. If Mr Möderndorfer had been sitting all day Saturday, not only when he was talking about Ljubljana, he would certainly have noticed that. As far as these two amendments are concerned. I haven't talked about Ljubljana on Saturday, and I don't mean to talk about Ljubljana today, but I will talk if you allow me a few sentences, about municipalities and about the financing of municipalities. Article 45 provides for a reduced average for 2015. This means funding municipalities for 2015 – and we have put such an amendment on the committee and now, not just us, three parliamentary groups – this means 22.7 million euros for municipalities less. This is as far as Article 45 is concerned. We can probably discuss both articles, including Article 46, where we propose that the second paragraph of Article 46 be corrected. Where it is written: irrespective of Article 21, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Financing of Communities, in 2015 part of the co-financing of investments shall be provided to municipalities at the rate of 2 % of the total eligible consumption of municipalities. The municipalities have already been given 2% of the truth in love with the ZUJF and we are now taking, you are taking another 2%. Our proposal is only to return to the percentage at which the congregations landed after the ZUJF. Earlier, colleague Masha Kociper also said about this one of her coalition colleagues: "What would you do if you took 25% away from your congregation, any congregation?" According to Article 46 and the solution under Article 46, I have data from the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, not from any individual municipality, but from the municipality where I come from. According to this information, the congregation, in turn, would lose 23,06 %. Isn't that about a quarter? Almost 25%, about a quarter of all revenue. Municipality of Bovec – 19.43% of all revenue, Municipality of Osilnica – 17,14% less, Municipality of Loški Potok – 15,63%. This is what we are talking about, and this is why we have put an amendment to Article 46, because we find that, after ZIPRS, sometimes we have said after ZIPro that those municipalities that have a relatively large territory have a small number of inhabitants are injured, since domestically it means that the municipalities are less populated. I didn't use anything, not Ljubljana, not city halls, or other municipalities, because we also have densely populated congregations, which are neither urban nor capital cities, nor nothing. For this reason, I propose that we all reconsider to be aware of what reduced averages mean for 2015 and of what the second paragraph of Article 46 means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u295	Replica has Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u296	Thank you, Mr. President. I must replicate my colleague Jani Möderndorfer because he said that the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 45 does not belong here because ZIPRS 2014/2015 is a technical law. We have tabled an amendment to Article 45 of this Act. What's wrong with this place? Why doesn't he belong here? If I understood you correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u297	Thank you. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u298	Thank you so much for saying that. It's only right for us to report to the amendment. The positive Slovenia or coalition knows very well, including from the Finance Committee itself, why the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed an amendment in such a form. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the agreement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Municipality of Ljubljana is actually being implemented on the basis of ZIPRO 2014/2015. While Mr Möderndorfer spoke in the introduction, we are deceiving the public and we are talking about an agreement that has not been reached. However, there was a meeting of 23. Seven. 2013 The fourth decision makes it clear that in September the working group of the Ministry of Finance and the Municipality of Ljubljana will meet on the subject of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. And MOL proposes deleting the second paragraph of Article 45 of ZIPro 2013/2014, which reduces the revenue for the municipality of Ljubljana in particular. I cannot be silent, as some say, that I will not talk about Ljubljana. It is true that in the record itself of 9. 9. This Decision is no longer applicable. But it's in the draft, which means you talked about it at this meeting. And that you've realized in the law itself. Mrs. Vraničar, you have been to this meeting as well. I see you're nodding, but it's probably written something in the draft that doesn't correspond to the coalition and neither does the government. The Slovenian Democratic Party also drew attention to this decision on the Committee on the Interior and said that we are just waiting to see what reality we will see. Now we can see that this has happened in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Let me refer to the rest of the debate and move away from the Municipality of Ljubljana and the capital. It is right to point out that all other municipalities – not only urban but also all other small municipalities – are in a deprived position in relation to the Municipality of Ljubljana. You all know that last year there was an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipalities where 200 million euro was taken out of the municipalities by agreement, by agreeing that the tasks entrusted to the municipalities would be reduced to 10%. However, this part of the agreement was not adopted and 200 million was taken to the congregations. And with this amendment to Article 54 ZIPro 2014/2015, we want to strike a balance between all municipalities. If you look at the average, Ljubljana will lose 0.99 euros per capita while Solčava will lose 1.79 euros per capita. This is a huge difference and thus increases the differences between developed municipalities or municipalities that are in rural areas and do not have the same opportunities as the Municipality of Ljubljana. I suggest the coalition negotiates, talks. I think it will be easier for us to decide when the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service will have an opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u299	Thank you. Because you've got the word of everyone who's been reported. In the meantime, Mrs Natasa Voršič, Deputy Head of the Legal and Legislative Service, joined us and I give her my word that she is trying to give their opinion on the procedural proposal tabled by Mr Pavlisic. Here you go, Mrs. Vorsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. With regard to Article 45 of the Law on the implementation of the budget, our opinion is that, if the second paragraph of Article 45, as provided for in the applicable Law on the implementation of the budget and as provided for in the proposed amendment, the provisions of the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia do not fully apply. Articles 6a and 6b. What is the financial difference, however, is not the legal question to which we could answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-12-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u301	Thank you for those explanations. If you don't mind, I'd like to interrupt this session right now. I am adjourning the debate on Article 45 and the amendments tabled and ending the 16th item of the agenda. I also interrupt the 47th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow, 13 November 2013, at 10 a.m. Thank you and good night.
