ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Member of Parliament, Magi. Katarina Hotchevar and Mag. Diane Jedhan. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 1 March 2013 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I must inform you that I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda and I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE, THIS IS TO BE DEFINITIVELY A PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA UNDER THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 17 Members and Members, first signed by Janije Möderndorfer. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! The Group of Members and Members shall be 22 2. In the legislative procedure, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been tabled. The bill was tabled at the same time as a constructive non-trust, and the intention was to initiate a legislative procedure and that parliamentary groups or parliamentary parties that supported a constructive non-trust could begin talks immediately after the election of the new President of the Government to form a new coalition and to form a new government. In line with the agreements that have already begun, amendments have also been tabled following the agreements concluded by future coalition partners. All proposed amendments were adopted on the parent committee and reflect the course of the coalition negotiations. The first novelty brought about by the proposed changes is the separation of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, by returning to the Ministry of Culture. We have warned that the abolition of the Ministry of Culture seems controversial, pointless and, above all, a wrong decision, from the very first intention, from the very end. Back then, we were opposed to putting the area of culture in the so-called mega ministry, because that decision seemed extremely unrealistic and harmful to us. As such, she later proved herself. Experience has shown that by doing so, a culture that covers all the levels of our way or design of this society and the state or gives it an identity has been torn to the brink. We believe that the independent ministry has always been a state-owned or state-of-the-art ministry and that only as a single institution can it represent, represent, maintain, preserve and care for culture both within and outside national borders. With the amendment tabled, this ministry will not take over the work of the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, as originally envisaged, but will continue to remain and operate in an unaltered organisational form. We believe that Slovenians are an important part of our nation around the world, so it is important that our country is with them and that it is aware that Slovenians are part of it around the world. Even though we are confident that this relationship could develop equally well without a specific ministry, we have proposed that, in order to avoid miscommunication, such provisions should remain unchanged for coalition partners in the new government. Furthermore, the proposed merger of internal affairs with the public administration, which should show that in modern European democracy it is not necessarily a repressive body for the calming of angry citizens, but that they can and must be a modern service to everything a citizen expects of his country. Given that, since 2012, the tasks performed by the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for equal opportunities under the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men and the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment have been carried out by the Ministry responsible for work, family and social affairs, the name of the Ministry is hereby renamed the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here it is only a new designation, while the powers or work of the Ministry with organizational form remain unchanged. The news is also the appointment of a State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, who will be responsible for establishing a dialogue with civil society and coordinating citizens' initiatives, as the new government wants to step up consultations with civil society and thus increase the involvement of civil society in government decision-making processes. The proposed amendments also provide for the transfer of the State Prosecutor's Office back under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, to which we believe it also belongs. That such arrangements are positive has also proved to be a long-standing practice, and that, if the prosecution is placed under the Ministry of the Interior, some issues that are most likely to lead to conflicts are unnecessarily raised. Finally, let me just say that, in our view, we can adopt such a proposed change in the structure of the government law after we have considered such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister! The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as its parent working body. Mr Möderndorfer, representative of the proposer, said in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law allows the newly elected Prime Minister to propose candidates for ministers in a timely manner, in line with the resources set out. The bill has not yet been coalitionly coordinated at the time of submission and is therefore complemented by the amendments tabled by the four groups. The bill, together with the amendments tabled, provides for: the identification of the area of culture from the current Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport to the Ministry of Culture, the addition of the areas of public administration to the Ministry of the Interior, which will fully regulate the entire public administration, the transfer of the area of the State Prosecutor's Office as part of the judiciary in a broader sense back to the Ministry of Justice. Equal opportunities are added on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in order to highlight the importance of this area. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Katarina Kralj, pointed out in her presentation of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service the principle of the comment, as well as of the adoption of the last amendment to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 2012, that it is contrary to the principle of legal certainty, that a temporary change in the titles and working areas of ministries, as well as the establishment of new ministries and their working areas, is regulated in the transitional provisions of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not by the corresponding simultaneous amendments to the Law on State Administration, where this matter is established. The principle of legal certainty requires that the system is transparent and that laws are mutually coordinated. In the debate on the intention of the proposer to reintroduce the state prosecutor into the Ministry of Justice, none of the Members and Members expressed opposition to such a regulation. However, it was pointed out that the placement of the State Prosecutor's Office within the Ministry of the Interior, which has been strongly criticised in the past period, is not controversial. In doing so, they recalled the Constitutional Court’s decision, which pointed out that Articles 135 and 136 of the Constitution lay down the principle of functional independence of state prosecutors, which also requires the independence of state prosecutors as state authorities. With regard to the proposal to re-establish a separate Ministry of Culture, fear was expressed that this could be the start of a re-increase of the state apparatus and, consequently, a larger state debt. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for presenting the Committee's report. I'm asking if she wants to give an opinion to the government. He does. I give the floor to Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Minister responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, which carries out ongoing business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia welcomes the decision of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly, which has adopted amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which preserves the arrangements laid down in the Law on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, whereby the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians is the independent central authority of the state administration for relations with Slovenians in place and throughout the world led by the Minister without a licence. Here let me express my personal satisfaction as the former Minister for this area, because I know that such a decision makes Slovenians very pleased and happy both in their place and in the world. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejects the statements of the drafters of the Labour Law relating to the separation of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport and the establishment of a separate ministry responsible for culture. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia argues that the area of culture within the mandate of this government has not been removed from the works, much the opposite. The association in organisational terms has proved to be effective. Any reorganisation in the sense of a single Ministry of Culture would be worth considering in the course of the elections and the appointment of the Government for the duration of the entire mandate. Otherwise, it is a decision that is reckless and will have some negative consequences in addition to disproportionate costs. The Committee also adopted an amendment transferring to the Ministry of the Interior the tasks of public administration and local self-government carried out by the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration under the current regime. The motion for an amendment in the explanatory memorandum is very costly to point out that linking internal affairs with public administration shows that in modern European democracy, not necessarily a repressive body for the reconciliation of angry citizens, but that they can and must be a modern service to everything a citizen expects of his country. The Government underlines that the justification of the amendment's proposal to put the area of public administration from the current Ministry of Justice and Public Administration to the Ministry of the Interior for the expectation of a modern service of public administration for citizens and citizens does not constitute an argument for transposition. The government recalls that the police, as a body within the Ministry of the Interior, have been independent since 1998 and also under applicable legislation. The Government points out in this respect that the amendment has overlooked that the Ministry of the Interior has a number of tasks in the field of administrative internal affairs, migration, naturalisations and other matters. Thus, the Ministry of the Interior is already in the areas within its competence, serving the citizens, and the already weak argument of the amendment's proposer is completely out of force. In addition to disproportionate costs, the government considers that the reorganisation proposed for quick, reckless and without substantive arguments and professional analyses would have also harmful consequences. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not constitutionally dispute the transfer of the work of the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration relating to the organisation and status of the State Prosecutor's Office and the supervision of the conduct of the State Prosecutor's Office. The transmission also showed positive results. The Public Prosecutor's Directorate has been set up to exercise its powers effectively and it is therefore reckless that a well-functioning unit should be abolished and the powers restored to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u7	Thank you for the government's opinion. Here comes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, starting with the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us the Government Act, which was introduced into the procedure by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia with the first signed Janije Möderndorfer. When Janša's government took over the leadership of the country a year ago, it clearly committed itself to what are the key priorities of the situation, what we are facing and what needs to be done immediately, without delay, to get out of the crisis and not to be bankrupted by the country, as President Janez Janša spoke about days ago. On the left-hand side, the desire for power is greatly strengthened, the desire to control state property, and therefore such opposition to both the bad bank and the Slovenian state holding company, but we do not have clear objectives and a substantive programme on this side. In addition to fiscal policy and key reforms, the government of Janez Janša began to reorganise public administration and reduce the number of ministries. This has not only reduced the cost of doing business, but through the substantive and organisational integration of tasks whose coordination is essential for policy-making in specific areas, greater operationality and improvement of the government's work has been ensured. In view of the results and the reforms adopted, this government has done well, despite its continued refusal of credit for this, by some media, particularly the opposition. As I said last time, the government of Janez Janša has done more in just one year than the previous government in three years. Each government has the legitimate right to create such working conditions in which it will try to carry out its work to the best of its ability. We are therefore aware in the SDS that you can change the government law, but we note that it would be good for you to work on the programme rather than on buying with ministries and ministerial posts. You have decided to re-establish the Ministry of Culture as a single ministry. This year, the public was misinformed, including with the help of some of the media, who duly assisted the opposition that the government of Janez Janša had abolished the Ministry of Culture. That's not true. We didn't shut down the Ministry of Culture and even less the culture itself. We have attached it to the Ministry of Education, and in no sense has any concern for culture and thus the identity of the Slovenian people been thwarted. More than the structural form in which the Ministry of Culture operates, it is important to have a substantive contribution in the field of culture. Many successful creators and artists, recognised both at home and abroad, not today, and in the past did not need a single ministry for their achievements. True culture comes from people, from the heart, and not from political institutions. You are returning the Office of the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Justice. Most of the discussions in the context of the reduction of ministries in the Government Act a year ago were given the right decision to transfer the Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior. In Positive Slovenia you have always held the view that such transfer is unconstitutional and controversial. A few days ago, the Constitutional Court stated that this was not the case and that such a decision was not disputed, nor was it contrary at all. All the political, urban and political debates on this subject, as also highlighted by the new mandate-holder, have thus become completely groundless and meaningless. However, it is recalled that the proposal to transfer the prosecution from the judiciary to the Ministry of the Interior was Virantov. What the calculation of the Civil Gazette was, however, can only be speculated on, but it will be seen what the principle of this party is also on some other issues. The fact is that the Civil Code is a negotiator for the composition of the Janša government or coalition of those that made it conditional on the transfer of the prosecution to internal affairs by entering the coalition. You will add equal opportunities to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Why not the disabled, given that we also have such a title on the parliamentary committee? We welcome, however, the decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to keep the Ministry without a licence for Slovenians in place and around the world. The abolition of the ministry would mean that Slovenians are incarcerated and around the world, and I quote, "letting go of any fates and thus ultimately assimilation", the end of the quote. That's what they say in the National Council of Korean Slovenians. Thank God, in the end, for insisting on minority organisations, you have also decided to keep this ministry in the form you have so far. We will not support changes to the Government Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, all present! By electing the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mag. Alenka Bratušek, and thus the untrustworthy vote of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the newly elected President of the Government has the opportunity to create new working areas of ministers together with future coalition partners. Social Democrats are not co-proposals of the bill, but we are co-signers of the submitted and accepted amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments remove the comments of the Legislative and Legal Services and, in particular, the amended bill provides that: the area of culture is excluded from the current Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport into the Ministry of Culture, the area of public administration is attached to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which will fully regulate the entire public administration, the area of the Public Prosecutor's Office, irrespective of the decision of the Constitutional Court, is transferred back to the Ministry of Justice, since the autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office – this is also a requirement of the Constitutional Court – so consolidates, to the name of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, with a view to highlighting the importance of this area, which is now an integral part of this Ministry. At first, the abolition of the Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world was also proposed. Following previous coordination with future partners, the proposed amendment has been abandoned, and we particularly welcome the amendment. A good year ago, we Social Democrats opposed the abolition of the Ministry of Culture and the creation of a large-scale resource covering all education, science, culture and sport. An experiment by the outgoing government proved to be harmful also because it was not manageable. The area of culture has been set aside in this extensive ministry, and we now support the creation of a separate cultural ministry. We have also opposed the transfer of the State Prosecutor's Office under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior and the return to justice. In doing so, it must be denied that there is some kind of resentment about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but because we believe that this area really does belong in a broader sense to justice. Social Democrats will be supported by a complementary proposal for a government law. Since my predecessor listed all the privileges of the government of Janez Janša, let me say that the government of Janez Janša has indeed done more in one year than the government of Borut Pahor in three years, and the result is seen in protests, the standard of citizens and citizens, the number of unemployed, the lack of investment, the lustration of pensioners and even more, could be listed. So I'm glad the government is leaving and living in a fight that the new government will be successful in repairing all the damage in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u11	Thank you for the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The following is the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Mr. Richard Braniselj will make his point. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u12	Thank you, President. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the proposal for a government law for a very simple reason. Any government coalition is coming, potential, possible, whatever it is, has the legitimate right to set up its own government, to steal ministries in its own way, to carry out certain transfers and so on. I don't think the opposition at the beginning of the current coalition's mandate objected to this either. It can't be like this right now. With regard to the transfer of the powers of the public administration back under internal affairs, I think the matter is indisputable, even sometimes so. For a little while now, I'd like to stop by the D.A.'s transfer back to the Ministry of Justice. So that we don't speculate too much, I'm going to explain what it was like to not speculate too much, to speculate and to carry out some conspiracy theory. The original idea was by the Civil Service List, the idea in this direction to connect functionally, approximates the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, the NPU and the Criminal Police, as close as possible, if possible under one resort. The same is true of linking the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Office in operation under the same department. This is possible in two ways – to exclude the NPU and the criminal police from the internal courts or to expel the prosecution and put it into internal affairs. It was the whole hall back then. A lot of words about unconstitutionality, the independence of the prosecution and so on. We are now witnessing that this transfer has proved undisputedly uncontested, that there have been no harmful consequences, that the prosecution is still independent and independent. All that shouting and screaming was too much. The Civil Code even landed after the professional public pressured and wanted the appearance of impartiality to result in the transfer of the Prosecutor's Office under the jurisdiction of justice. We agreed, we would have agreed to this, but we had this in the coalition contract and we did not want to do this on our own. As a matter of fact, no harm done. And there will be no harm if the prosecution returns to the Justice Department. We want the prosecution to do better so that the prosecution has all the conditions for its work. That should be our goal. As far as culture is concerned, there is no problem. If civil society or culturers see this as a strong symbolic importance that the cultural sector is a special ministry, this desire can be applied. As it is said, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the government law with all the changes it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u13	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Ms Jasmina Opec will give her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! If we return well a year ago when the government was being formed, we explained in the Slovenian People's Party's Group at the time of the amendment of the government law that the fundamental right of each new coalition is to form a government, to organise its work as it thinks it is best for a successful work. Let us now leave aside how the adoption of this law was accompanied more than 12 months ago by protests, excruciating debates, accusations, even constitutional opinions by the then opposition. Even today, we regret the months of opposition and controversy over where it belongs and where it does not belong. Although the Constitutional Court has now confirmed that they have been unjustifiable because they have not caused anything other than the shadow of citizens' doubts about the correctness of prosecutors in specific cases and have encouraged the view that prosecutors are not professional and independent in their work. In the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that in the future, even on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, we will no longer play by populism with a sense of confidence in the legal and legal system. If you are assessing that the State Prosecutor's Office must be again under the judicial authority, we will not oppose this decision in the Slovenian People's Party. Two weeks ago, the Constitutional Court made it very clear that the State Prosecutor's Office is independent and independent that it has to act professionally, solely on the basis of the Constitution, laws and adopted law of prosecution, irrespective of where the Ministry is institutionally classified. The proposal also foresees the return of the independent cultural centre. We are pleased to note today that Slovenian culture is still flourishing and enriching our society, that it is no less rich and that nothing less inspires us, as some have predicted at the merger of the Ministry of Culture with the Ministry of Education. Once again, it appeared that the form could not determine the content and that any different interpretations had only a demagogue note. As has already been said, the human resources organization is in your hands this time, so at this point we don't mind if you put the matter back on track. We saw much more symbolism in the Slovenian People's Party in its original intention to attach the Ministry without a ticket or to Slovenians in place and around the world to culture. By shutting down this station, we would have given our relatives abroad a completely wrong message. It would mean that he does not want to treat them as equivalent, but that we see them as some folklore specialty belonging to the cultural sphere. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the soberness of the new coalition that it has not already sought conflict at the first point of its mandate and has listened to concerns, not only of us, opposition politicians, but also of those who would definitely feel this change on their skin, our foreigners, our relatives, living around the world. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is not as important to organise the government itself as such, but that there are much more important measures, solutions and results that will result from the work of a possible new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Presentation of the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be made by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the distinguished Minister with a fellow member! The position of the Desus Group regarding the Government Act is as follows. The uncertain political situation, taking into account the social and economic climate in the country, calls for effective and rapid deblocking in the creation of a new government and thereby deblocking the functioning of the National Assembly itself. The efforts of the party and the Dessus Group have gone and are going in the direction of getting an operational government as soon as possible and that policy is starting to work for citizens and citizens of our country what they expect of it. She's a new Mag. Alenka Bratušek was confirmed on 27 February 2013. Its primary task at this time is to form a new coalition on the basis of effective negotiations with most of the parties and to offer the National Assembly as soon as possible to discuss and endorse the new government. These processes are under way intensively and we expect them to be completed as soon as possible. The next step is the formation of the government, which requires amending the current government law and harmonising the structure of ministries. The solutions, both in the proposed legal form and in the amendment form, are the result of negotiations between potential partners of the new government. We strongly support the proposed transfer of the Prosecutor's Office back to the Ministry of Justice in the DeSUS Group. We believe that such a solution is more appropriate, as it was also required by the professional public, who were in the position that the prosecution falls within the framework of the justice department. However, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, as we know, found or assessed that the transferred power of the prosecution to the MNZ was not unconstitutional. We agree, or we have accepted, this position, and we no longer have any problems. We also believe that the creation of an independent Ministry of Culture is acceptable. Such a solution is required by both the professional and the layman’s public. We have witnessed protests in this direction, and we are still witnessing continuing criticism on this account. The DeSUS Group also agrees with the transfer of the area of public administration to the MNZ, since the area of public administration and internal affairs will be covered by one ministry, which certainly represents, we believe, a more efficient and rational functioning of the ministry. In our parliamentary group, we also unanimously supported the first proposal to abolish the Ministry without a resource. We considered that this area, given the content it covers, did not need to be organised as a single ministry, even as a Ministry without a resource, but could be carried out equally effectively within the organisation of a different type, such as the Office of the Government. Since the agreement has prevailed that this ministry should be preserved in its current form, the DeSUS Group should also adopt and support such a position. The DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposal for a government law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group will be submitted by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u18	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! For everyone who assumes responsibility for running the country, in Nova Slovenija we feel it is good to set up a team on our own and organize a way of doing it. With this you take responsibility, dear colleagues, for the final results as well. In New Slovenia we will definitely judge you by your results and we will not repeat your mistakes when you made noise for nothing when you submitted a constitutional assessment that showed that there are no unconstitutional consequences when you organised any mini protests due to the merger of individual departments to any ministry. Therefore, I now predict that Nova Slovenija will not oppose your proposal to amend the law. I would like to add a few more comments, which I think are constantly repeating in these debates. With regard to the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world – this is not the Ministry, this is the Office. I can say again that in New Slovenia we are very happy that you have made a smart, sober decision and that this office leaves unchanged and in some way do not needlessly open an additional front with our Slovenians living outside our borders. With regard to the prosecution and with regard to the Ministry of Culture, you can see in our case that things are not disputed, that they work fine and in some ways you are doing your job needlessly. But like I said, it's your business, and you'll take responsibility for that. I would conclude by repeating myself repeatedly how things would be different, how things would be fine — if only they were.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u19	Thank you. Presentation of the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group will be presented by Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I would like to point out that in our Group we also agree with the proposed amendments to the Government Act, which are coordinated at the meeting of the competent home committee, since this issue is ultimately only a matter of competence in terms of the organisation of all coalitions. That is why we can also agree with the reintroduction of the Ministry of Culture, with the integration of the field of public administration and internal affairs into the Joint Ministry and also with the transfer of the Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of Justice. In particular, I would like to point out that, as a member of the national community, which we are dealing with with with with this issue with particular sensitivity, we are particularly pleased that the independence of the Office of Slovenians in place and throughout the world will continue to be guided by the Minister without a ticket. On this occasion, I also stress our expectations for a future government coalition in terms of the realization of rights and the preservation and development of indigenous national communities. Since the proposed changes to the Government Act do not specifically determine this area, it seems more important for us to briefly draw attention to the most important expectations of indigenous national communities. This can be treated or considered as some starting point for the potential cooperation of Members of the indigenous Hungarian and Italian national communities with a possible new coalition. First of all, I mention several times the unanimous need for final preparation and the speedy adoption of the proposed Law on the Autochthonous Italian and Hungarian Communities and, in this context, a meaningful upgrade to the rest of the legislation on the protection of indigenous national communities. From the point of view of the implementation of the measures against assimilation and in favour of the existence and development of indigenous national communities, including the promotion of the economic development of national mixed areas in the regions, it is essential to systematically upgrade and adapt to actual needs the way in which indigenous national communities are based. An important condition for cooperation from the point of view of the vital functioning and development of the organisations and institutions of indigenous national communities is also the continued systemic solution to funding, including the provision of funding at least at the current level, particularly due to the high level of vulnerability of small communities. It is necessary to continue the activities already initiated in order to ensure a more consistent exercise of bilingualism in public administration, judicial authorities, public service providers and institutions and other public authority factors in the area of municipalities or regions where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live. Finally, I should like to point out that, or will need to be found, a more effective way of placing an authority or service within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which performs direct and binding tasks in the field of special rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u21	Thank you, Dr. Laszlo Gonch. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u22	Given that a similar debate took place a year ago in this Chamber when a similar law was passed with one goal, this is that the President of the Government will be able to form the Government as soon as possible, we believe that this assembly, including the law that we are considering today, will also enable the President of the Government to propose to the Government under this law. Therefore, the positive Slovenia will also support such a bill with adopted amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u23	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. Procedural Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u24	I'd like to ask for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u25	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, I shall give a five-minute recess for consultation in the parliamentary group. We'll continue the session at 1850. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u26	Dear Members and Members! I find that the holiday for consultation in the Group of Positive Slovenia has expired. We continue to work and please take your seats and check the operation of the voting devices. We're moving to the vote. I take it that interest is in explaining the voice. First, on behalf of the groups of Members. Although almost all the parliamentary groups have presented their views, I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. He doesn't want to. I am opening the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! From the point of view of the Slovenian People's Party and the vast majority or all of the parliamentary groups that do not appear in this coalition, it has been made clear that you have the right – and so on – to form a government as you think it will work best. If you go to look a year ago at the magnetograms, what and how many fertilizers you spilled after the then coalition when we came in with the law on organizing the government, you will see that your approach and our approach were completely different. This has already indicated that in the opposition we will act differently than you and your mistakes will not be repeated. I am a little concerned – I will draw attention to the Secretary of State for Civil Society here. I hope that this is not meant as Peter Toš wrote in Del about the abolition of our two indigenous Slovenian minorities and the spread of this to all countries of the former Yugoslavia, but perhaps to any outside of which someone has sometimes lived in our country. Around the D.A. so much – I would expect those who have already proposed such a change in the first coalition to keep it, take responsibility in that ministry and do what. But it is not that they are now turning and replacing and agreeing with all of this. The D.A.'s office, wherever they put it, and so does the judiciary, I think it almost doesn't matter. It didn't work before, it didn't work now, and I'm afraid it won't work in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr Pukšič, in all this debate, it was not detectable, at least I did not see your definition of how you will vote. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. The next person who wishes to discuss or explain his vote is Mr Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are increasing the number of ministries by 9%. I'm asking, what's increased by 9%? Crying? Employment? Company gross product? Economic growth? Nothing! We're doing it wrong. Today, instead of having an extraordinary meeting on the composition of the new government, we should have an extraordinary session on what we will do and what we will live on. This is a fundamental question, not how many ministries we have. At this point, we have a number of ministries at the level of Finland. Now we're gonna beat it. In what other areas do we go beyond Finland? After the economic growth? After the social gross product? After technological developments? Nowhere! You see, because of the wrong choices. This moment and in the past we have bankrupted, and now we are going against total bankruptcy! A year ago, I made a hypothesis that the mind would always move away from each other's positions. I'm glad this was confirmed in a year. When anyone from Positive Slovenia has ever proposed anything, it has not been accepted, and now it is all accepted. But then everything was accepted from the opposite sex. You see, it's the trap of the Slovenians. We can't do creative work, we can't think about what we're going to do and what we're going to live on. We can be bureaucratic. It's nice to guess how many ministries we're gonna have today. Do you know what kind of delusion we're living in? You don't know. Because you have not experienced what I have experienced, what the economy is experiencing – bankruptcy. When you do, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u30	Mr. Vogrin, I didn't hear you either, whether you support the law or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u31	Mr. Weber, I'm sorry. My heart won't let me back him up because he's going the wrong way. Towards the bureaucracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-30.ana.u32	You've had a debate before. Thank you for your clearer definition in explanation of vote. I find that there are no new wishes for explanations of vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 30th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you for your cooperation today, and have a nice evening.
