ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Ludmila Novak from 18:00 on, Mr Dragutin Mate, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Marijan Pojbič, mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Joseph Horvat from 17:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on medicinal products following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Brigitte Čokl.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u2	Good morning, everyone. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! In the second reading, we have a drug law, one of the basic laws under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. This law has been incorporated into the necessary laws to be adopted in order to introduce directives, namely the Pharmacovigilance Directive and the Directive on the use of medicinal products in human medicine, with a view to preventing counterfeit medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain. All these Directives should be introduced in 2012 and January 2013. The main reason is that the subject is so extensive that we decided to write a new law, not just a new law, for reasons of transparency. What does this law want to settle? We are laying down new provisions on the delimitation between industrially manufactured medicinal products and Galen products, which has proved necessary in practice and is also available to other Member States of the European Union. We further regulate the introduction or import of medicines for personal use, the competence to determine the anatomical and therapeutic classification of medicinal products, the amended provisions on the list of essential and essential medicinal products. Furthermore, the marketing of medicinal products without a marketing authorisation, the definition of the compassionate use of medicinal products which are in a centralised procedure for the authorisation of medicinal products, the donation of medicinal products and the notification of the prescription and use of medicinal products. The proposal also provides better and more transparently for the powers, tasks and position of pharmaceutical inspectors, and for the powers and duties of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicines and medical devices, which, in addition to the powers in the field of medicinal products, also has specific powers in the field of medical devices, the provision of human tissues and cells intended for the treatment, supply of blood, and in the field of drug trafficking of the second and third groups. What are the goals of marriage? Strengthening the high level of protection of public health of the population, providing preconditions for achieving the objective of the free and safe movement of medicines, i.e. the quality, safety and effectiveness of medicines that will be in transport in the Republic of Slovenia and must therefore also be at European level and in accordance with European legislation. We establish a legal basis for more effective action to prevent counterfeit medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain. We are further improving the procedures for obtaining marketing authorisation and to the maximum extent possible the use of available national scientific and technological resources to participate in international procedures for obtaining and maintaining a marketing authorisation. We further regulate the principles of good practice to ensure the quality of production and testing of all medicinal products, active substances and certain excipients. And to the greatest extent possible, we are working to strengthen the management system and reduce the risk associated with the use of medicines. In accordance with the legislative procedure and with the number of amendments tabled, we propose that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this meeting of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products should also be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. The presentation of the report could be made by the President. Right now, I see that Mrs. Alenka Jeraj is not present in the hall. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a drug law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, which wanted to be adopted by emergency procedure, will fully replace the existing law in view of the scope of the changes. Although the urgency of the proceedings was justified by the need to transpose the two directives into our legal order, we are otherwise facing high penalties. Due to the need for a re-decision on the type of procedure, the National Assembly has decided to deal with such an important law on a regular basis, as we have also supported in Novi Slovenija. The station has recently become the government's pressure on the National Assembly that laws must be swiftly adopted and passed on all responsibility to Members due to threatening penalties. This situation is becoming unsustainable. The proposal for a new law regulates medicines on the market, the testing of medicinal products and the compassionate use of medicinal products, the marketing authorisation of medicinal products and non-rutinely prepared medicines for advanced treatment, labelling and instructions for use, the manufacture of medicinal products, substances and certain excipients, the marketing of medicinal products and substances by weight, the import and introduction of medicinal products and substances, the brokerage of medicinal products and substances by weight, the marketing of medicinal products, pharmacovigilance, the provision of medicines in exceptional circumstances and the provision of donations, the advertising of medicines, the official quality control of medicines, the cost of inspection, the functioning of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the criminal, transitional and final provisions. In New Slovenia, we wonder to what extent the stakeholders concerned by the proposed law will be satisfied with their adoption and to what extent they respond to the Court's findings and recommendations, as well as to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The latter pointed out that Slovenian health care should be particularly inefficient in the procurement of medicines and other medical equipment, and financial flows analysis should indicate that it is among suppliers for cartel arrangements. Therefore, standardisation of the purchase of medicinal products and medical devices and a transparent public procurement system should be introduced. On the basis of official records, drug consumption has increased by an average of 3.7 % per year over the last 5 years. Last year's data show that at least one green recipe received a million 485 thousand 133 inhabitants, 72.2% of the population. The use of medicinal products per individual who received the prescription increased by 1.8% and in the last 5 years, on average by 3.6% per year. If we look at the 10-year period, we find that drug consumption has increased by almost 60%. However, we are still somehow on the European average despite these figures. Slovenia is also known for something else, one of the most intensive manufacturers and exporters of medicines, and on the other hand we have almost the most expensive medicines. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposed law does not sufficiently address the field of medicines, and then in its opinion also warns the State Council on the basis of numerous and uncoordinated comments by the professional public, which are not sufficiently taken into account in the bill. We've got more and less on one side, less money for them. In doing so, the Ministry should be the first to set a good example for the responsible host as regards the favourable provision of medicines. We were surprised by the fact that only because of the responsibilities and ability of the director at the hospital in Slovenj Gradc, 61 to 70% of the discount on the basis of the invitation to tender bought one of the medicines, depending on the form and strength, while the Ministry of Health managed to obtain only 12 to 15% of the discount for the same medicine. In today's debate, we may be able to get an explanation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to attribute this modest discount. In Novi Slovenija, we are beginning to wonder to what extent the proposed legal text is the result of various lobbyist pressures on the Ministry, which has also led to the resignation of Minister Gantar. However, in view of the amendments tabled in certain parts, the legislative text does not even have the support of all coalition members. We will not support the bill in New Slovenia, but we will probably not even oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you. Mag. Lejla Hercegovac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u6	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The drug law is a completely new law, a system law created by long-term professional and coalition coordination. This is a law that should be adopted by the end of this year. Why? This law is a legislative solution relating to the transposition of the EU Directive from 2010. Among other countries, our country has also received a reminder and an opinion from the European Commission on the necessity of enacting legislation. This is an extremely professional content of the law that adapts the national regulation to European guidelines in the field of medicines in our country, follows modern guidelines and pursues important objectives. Allow me to list these objectives: strengthening public health protection, providing preconditions for the free movement and safe movement of medicines, establishing legal grounds for more effective action to prevent the entry of counterfeit medicinal products. This includes improving the prescribed procedures, obtaining a marketing authorisation for medicinal products, ensuring the quality of production and testing of all medicinal products, substances and excipients, and strengthening the management and risk management systems associated with medicinal products. In the new Slovenian legal order, pharmacovigilance is a system of identification, evaluation and response to new knowledge of the side effects and other safety aspects of the medicinal product when they are already on the market. Then we have to prevent the intrusion of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal distribution chain, other solutions in the chapter of the drug law on the market, the compassionate use of medicines, labelling, manufacture of medicines, wholesale, import and entry of substances and substances, retail, quality control, advertising of medicines, prices of medicines, inspection, criminal provisions. It is also written for the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicines and medical devices. In addition to positive solutions, there are shortcomings in homeopathic medicinal products, inter-network information and the sale of medicines without a prescription. While the achievement of coalition coordination is satisfactory, it is not optimal. Since it is all a matter of public interest that affects all people, I am convinced that we will have to work even more together for the benefit of all – politics, the professional public and other interested public – because otherwise we will have to witness even greater health problems. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the proposal of the Law on Medicinal Products. We hope that the Ministry of Justice has prepared solutions after all coordination with the professional public and that the implementation of the law will contribute to better functioning in the field of medicines. In addition to the entire content of the law, the Group of the Positive Slovenia will also support the additions tabled, which will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament, everyone's welcome! The proposal for a drug law has been preparing or supplementing for several years. In the last year and a half, we also participated in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and added some comments and proposals to improve the law. We were assisted by the professional public, so we do not oppose the new or renewed drug law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. In the end, however, there is always a hurry and a law as important and demanding as it is, it has come to pass by emergency procedure. It amends or complements whole chapters into laws. There is always an excuse at the time that we must comply with the European Directive, that we are already late and can expect to be punished. The greatest danger in such a difficult law is that different lobbies pave the way for the law itself and try with different influences not to say pressure, to improve their position on the supply, demand and service market. Sadly, many laws have in the past made it possible, or made it possible, to endanger, corrupt acts. When the law is passed, everything is legal. Medicines are extremely sensitive consumer goods, both in terms of production, control, quality and efficiency and financial impact. For medicines, we must always ask ourselves whether they are really necessary or useful and whether their benefit is greater than the harm done by the side effects. And it is these 2 European Directives, which are introduced into the new law, that are talking about evaluating the adverse effects of medicines and preventing counterfeit medicines from entering Slovenia. Therefore, control mechanisms must be separate from commercial ones. The new law abolishes the role of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which has so far monitored the quality of medicines. The tasks of the official control laboratory shall be transferred from the public agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food established by the Act amending and supplementing the Health Act. It was created by the merger of the laboratories of the regional health care institutions and the Institute for Health Protection and has not yet been fully revived. The transitional provisions of the law, however, state that the premises, equipment, materials for carrying out the analysis of medicinal products, documentation, archives and unfinished matters relating to the performance of the official control laboratory shall be taken over by the National Laboratory from the public agency. Workers who are qualified to carry out the tasks of the official control laboratory shall remain in the Agency's working relationship and shall be offered a second job at a public agency. This is the case in the transitional provisions 204.b in the second paragraph. This is the right thought of the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Ljubljana, which says it is not rational to abolish a system that works well. The official control laboratory, with its personnel, their specific competences, with knowledge, experience and equipment and procedures within the framework of a public agency, and, earlier, within the framework of the Institute for Pharmacy and Drug Testing, has acted in a professional manner in accordance with the requirements of good laboratory practice and quality standards and is fully comparable to other European laboratories. There will now be two different levels at one site of testing for medicinal products. First, testing by the manufacturer of the medicinal products; and second, testing by the regulatory authority. It's a conflict of interest, which is not allowed. The Health Committee had a broad debate and a dilemma with regard to the pricing of medicines and registers of these prices. The question remains who will have the main register for medicines prices: public agency, that is, the Ministry of Health, or the Health Insurance Office. We have come to the conclusion that the information system must be fully uniform and accessible to all stakeholders, including the e-reception goes in this direction. The drug law brings a lot of news in different areas. Newly introduces essential drug concepts, the field of providing medicines in emergency situations, to a new area [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] medicines with bulwarks and the like. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we supported the DeSUS amendment to separate the activity of wholesalerism and drug reselling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u10	Dear President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! We have before us a proposal for a drug law that will fully replace the law now in force. The transposition of EU directives to prevent counterfeit medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain and to amend and supplement the field of pharmacovigilance is an essential reason for the adoption of the new law. This is a post-marketing surveillance of the medicinal product. It also includes detection, evaluation, understanding and prevention of undesirable effects of medicinal products. Since this is an extremely demanding and specialised law, we believe that the substantive opinion can be given mainly by experts or experts in this field. At the same time, we are aware that there is a great deal of public money devoted to the production, sale, regulation, control and administration of medicines, so it is strongly under pressure from different lobbying and interest groups, which means that it is not appropriate to enact such a law quickly. For this very reason, in the SD Group of Members, we objected to the adoption of the law by emergency procedure at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. In a short period of time, virtually just before the hearing in the National Assembly, we received many comments on a law that could not be properly examined within a few days. In particular, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which warned us that in the event of emergencies including epidemics, pandemics and natural disasters, the institution should cover all the costs incurred from its own resources. We are pleased that the amendments adopted on the Committee and the two others that we will consider today have preserved this obligation in the expenditure of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. A considerable debate took place at the time of Article 105 of the Law. With the amendment adopted by the Committee, the marketing of medicinal products for fat is, after a new ban, prohibited to health care establishments, pharmacies and all business entities established by health establishments or pharmacies. they have a share in them. In practice, this means that a number of important players who significantly affect the drug market and affect the prices of medicines would be prevented. Social Democrats are in no way supporting the various creative evasions of laws, but we believe that such anomalies should be identified by the competent authorities and acted accordingly. However, ad hoc closures of individual business entities can further strengthen those companies that are already mostly in control of the drug market and have a cartel agreement on prices, as the Commission has also pointed out to us to prevent corruption. Therefore, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the 3 coalition parties to Article 105, and we will advocate for the comprehensive and efficient transport of medicinal products in the Pharmaceuticals Act, which is a system-wide law for this area. We can say that this amendment came into being just before the adoption of the law in the second reading, which already indicates that it is, in a way, a non-systemic solution and falls into another law. We will support the bill as well as the other amendments. Finally, I'd like to add the most important. Our main concern should be directed towards adequate access to quality, safe and effective medicines for all residents and residents of Slovenia. Social Democrats expect the law to pursue this main objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u12	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The use of medicines in the developed world is one of the most common and also the most important treatments, so it is important that the drug area is regulated so that medicines are quality, safe and effective and are available to Slovenian patients in a timely manner. As in a number of other areas, Slovenia has not implemented European directives in the field of medicines in a timely manner, for which we have already received an official reminder. The main reason for the adoption of the new Medicines Act is therefore to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the newly adopted Directives of the European Union and to bring them into line with the Slovenian legal order and to take stock of all the legal acts already taken by the European Union, which will help to strengthen the high level of protection of public health of the population. Counterfeiting medicines is a global problem that requires effective international coordination and cooperation. The European Council Directive and the proposal for a new drug law give rise to a number of measures and obligations for the Member States of the European Union and participants in the manufacture and transport of medicinal products in order to prevent counterfeit medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain. Many of the comments and suggestions we have received from both the professional public and the interested institutions testify to the complex and highly professional legal material. Last but not least, today's occupation of the Ministry of Health is witnessed. At the time of the examination of the working body, it appeared that the decision of the National Assembly to deal with the law on a regular basis was correct and strictly necessary, as a number of new solutions were adopted in the course of the treatment procedure on the Health Committee, which further improve the law. The Civil Code specifically advocated amendments to Articles 126 and 127 of the Law, which would also allow specialised shops to sell medicines online for those medicines which can be sold in these shops. The original proposal allowed online sales only to pharmacies. We are of the opinion that excessive regulation on the drug market does not lead to greater availability of medicines. If we want to further improve the quality of life of Slovenian citizens and the quality of treatment, we need to work in a stable environment where there will be clear, transparent and fair market conditions and equal conditions for all providers of medicines and medical devices. We are pleased that the proposed amendment has also been adopted by the Committee. Slovenia is a small fast-saturated market and a reference country for 13 other countries, with a population of almost 120 million. This means that any official decrease in the prices of medicinal products in Slovenia has an extremely significant impact on other countries' pricing policies. This can lead to extremely limited access to new and more effective therapies in our country in the future. For all the reasons listed, the Civil Code on the Home Committee did not support the amendment of the DeSUS Group to 105, which further limits this little competition in the sale of fat products that we have on our medicines market. Competition, however, is the basis for a healthy business environment. The Civil Code insists that the law does not impose restrictions on the transport of medicinal products by weight, so we have tabled an amendment to Article 105 together with the members of the Group of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. While the bill brings important systemic solutions to the long-term supply of medicines, the Parliamentary Group of the National List will support the bill as well as all other amendments to the coalition. Investment in health and medicines is directly linked to a longer life and only quality of life, and thus also to the greater working capacity and productivity of the population, contributing to the economic growth and well-being of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u14	Nice greetings, presidents, colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Health! When you listen to some representations of views, the first part of the position repeats itself. Otherwise, it is no different because it is a technically very demanding proposal for a law that will not only affect public health, but also the healthcare obligations, its business and the entities involved in the marketing of medicinal products. As has already been said, we cannot help but say that the main reason for amending the new system-wide drug law is, as explained, the transposition of the European Union Directive into the Slovenian legal order to prevent counterfeit medicines from entering the legal supply chain. Surely such changes represent positive measures to strengthen the high level of public health protection for the population. Nevertheless, in the SLS Group, we have concerns about the support of laws, given the fact that a solution, which is opposed by experts and the Faculty of Pharmacy, has crept into the law. I'll say something about that later. The main solutions to the law are: for the first time – in changing the scope of changes in the adverse effects of medicines, for the second time – non-interventional studies on the safety of medicinal products, for the third time – freer and safer movement of medicinal products, for the fourth time – legal grounds for more effective measures to prevent counterfeit medicinal products from entering the market, for the fifth time – provisions governing the rights of patients involved in non-intervention clinical trials are added. Mediators are also newly regulated in the field of medicinal products and substances, which have not yet been regulated in European Union legislation. Now what remains open and also depends on the support of the Slovenian People's Party to the law – or the non-support – we will decide whether we vote in favour or against the law. The amendment to Article 153, which amends the laboratory for which further clarifications are required, was adopted on the Committee. I hope that, with the amendments made by the Ministry, we can expect what this change really means and what will be the consequences of transferring the tasks of the official control laboratory from the public agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. And one more thing is important. On the committee we also supported the amendment of the DeSUS Group to 105th Article and the new 197th Article, where it limits the possibility of wholesalers with retail sales, that this is all in one person. The support of the law will be decided precisely on the resolution of the problem of the amendment of Article 153 and the support of the National Assembly to the amendment voted on by the Committee, i.e. the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Here we are asked a question about Article 153. Is this rewritten on someone's skin, some covert scam we don't know about? And the essence of everything is probably money again, so to move money to the detriment of those who need drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected secretary of state with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the presentation of the DeSUS Group's position, let us briefly touch on the reasons for the preparation of the new drug law. For the Republic of Slovenia must implement several directives in its legal order, which I will not list, in which, once again as our country has become a practice, we are late. The consequences of delays are all well - known because they are of a financial nature. Access to all medicines needed by health care is essential for the effective supply of medicinal products to the population. In the Republic of Slovenia, about 4,000 500 medicines with a thousand 500 substances are on the market. Medicines should be available to residents throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law in Article 108 on the basis of the provisions of Directive 2001/83/EC lays down the obligation of wholesalers to supply medicines in the public interest, which means, for example, that the intended delivery of the product to the buyer anywhere in the Republic of Slovenia is within 24 hours at the latest. A wholesaler who provides full services buys medicines from about 100 to 200 manufacturers of medicines and delivers any of the 4000 500 medicines to any of the approximately 500 customers in the Republic of Slovenia. Business operators carrying out wholesale marketing of medicinal products also require, inter alia, the establishment of high-efficiency logistics functions and the implementation of obligations irrespective of the economic viability of the individual delivery of the medicinal product. This can only be successful if it is carried out by business entities with a high degree of specialisation in business, internal organisation and performance in a competitive environment. Otherwise, there may be supply disruptions, imprudent decisions, and unjustifiable price increases, which may burden medicines. The vertical integration of business operators in the transport of fat and fine products in the environment of the small market increases the likelihood of these negative phenomena, since the contracting authority, which is vertically integrated with the supplier, has its business process divided between the task of providing patients with a medicine in a system that is sensitive to the sustainability of public funds and the task of business success in supplying this medicinal product in bulk. The requirements for carrying out the activities of heavy-duty drug trafficking involve investing in equipment, personnel, premises and other resources for which healthcare providers financed by public funds have not been established. The use of public funds for this purpose would result in unjustified redistribution, inadvertent use of public funds, otherwise intended for the health care of the population. In order to prevent vertical integration of business entities and to place a clear distinction between the basic activity of the public institution – i.e. a health or medical non-profit-oriented activity for which a public institution has been established and the objective of which must not be profit-making and a highly profitable economic activity – we, in the DeSUS Group, in the second reading of the draft law on the home labour body, have independently tabled an amendment to amend Article 105, which lays down the conditions for wholesalers, and for the new 197.a, which regulates the obligations of holders of wholesale marketing authorisations following the implementation of the regulations. Our next goal was to avoid avoiding the procurement process and thus to create a lack of transparency in public institutions and to increase the possibility of inflating the cost of medicines and narrowing the range of medicines on the market due to the business interests of wholesalers who take decisions on the basis of the cost aspect that follows the increase in profits. The fact is that it is necessary to stop the reallocation and non-use of public funds intended for the health of the population and to prevent an increase in public economic costs for the supply of medicines from the manufacturer to retail. The position of the wholesaler within the meaning of the proposal of this law in the market economy is intended to contribute precisely to the reduction of these costs. In the DeSUS Group, we assess the need to prevent the impact of capital on professional drug treatment decisions, as well as on professional decisions in the implementation of pharmaceutical activities. This means reducing the professional independence of medical and health activities. Other European countries have also seen the anomaly caused by vertical integration. The 13 countries of the European Union have already banned the vertical link. In the DeSUS Group, we are told that this is a measure aimed at Lekarna Ljubljana and that we prevent countries and local communities from carrying out the activities of a drug dealer. This is certainly not true, and this is not our goal. After all, the Law on Institutions allows for the possibility of a public institution, in addition to its basic activities, performing economic activity where it is necessary to carry out a public service. In particular, it is a measure that pursues the objective of first performing the activity for which they were actually established. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2013 We are moving on to the debate on Articles 105 and 197. The amendment of Article 105 of the Parliamentary Groups of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats and the Civil Service List is substantively linked to the amendment of the same motioner to Article 197. We will therefore discuss both together. I am putting to the debate article 105th and 197th and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats and the Civil Society List to these articles. Anybody want to talk? Mr Darko Jazbec, Group of Positive Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u18	President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State and the team from the Ministry and all the colleagues and colleagues! Let me explain this amendment, because we have also heard in the presentations of the parliamentary groups that there has already been a debate on this amendment. This is Article 105, where we propose in the amendment to delete the whole second paragraph. The amendment deletes the text that trafficking in medicinal products in bulk must not be carried out by business operators who are health operators and operators of pharmaceutical activities and by business entities whose founder or founder is. owners are business entities carrying out medical or pharmacy activities. It sounds so complicated, but in practice it is that a pharmacy, a health care home, a hospital can't handle a wholesale drug trade. In Positive Slovenia, in principle, we do not object to the interruption of verticalisation, but such a measure would "de facto" mean the elimination of certain clusters where this link currently exists. But there is no solution to what's happening to them now. Here, however, some material damage is done, and then there are jobs, certain supply disruptions. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that we would avoid this because the law is already late and needs to be adopted quickly in order to settle this in the Pharmacy Act, where we would define the solution to the problem in more detail. In Positive Slovenia, we do not object to this interruption being interrupted. As a colleague from DeSUS said, this is not against Lekarna Ljubljana, and I also say that this amendment has not been tabled to protect Pharmacy Ljubljana. In Slovenia we have registered 57 wholesalers with medicines. When we talk about this, we always think about those four, five big ones, but there are more, say, the Office of Transfusion Medicine, which by law is obliged to carry out the task of supplying blood and blood products; it is organised to carry out the activity of a wholesaler, and at the same time is a health care provider. With these two statuses it is possible to meet the needs in Slovenia with blood and blood products in terms of self-sustainment or self-sufficiency. It should be known that in this case it is the whole of Slovenia, since the Institute for Transfusion Medicine carries out blood products. Blood supply actions collect blood, then excess plasma is sent for processing and then it is redeemed, different products are produced from blood, such as human globulins, monoglobulins, platelet plasma, other blood products and recombinant medicinal products. These are preparations that are urgently needed for daily treatment. Now there is no way to get rid of it, it can't be stopped once and for all. We are not opposed to this link, even from the principle of reciprocity, because on the contrary there is no possibility that wholesalers would sell for fines. We agree that it is necessary to settle matters in a two-way manner, but this could need to be regulated in the Pharmacy Act and the consequences can be accurately anticipated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you, too. There is still an interest in the debate, so I invite you to report. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u20	Say good-bye to everyone again! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as mentioned earlier in the introduction to the presentation, we supported the DeSUS amendment, which interrupts this vertical, because pharmacies are public institutions and are also private. Public institutions are mainly organised regionally, covering their area, these are non-profit organisations that provide medicines for people, including animals, with advice and the like. All their profits, if we say so, go into activity and is not the primary goal of profit. In the meantime, some are already going to the velodrogerists, and this law is trying to cover this activity backwards. As I said, we will vote against the re-amendment that introduces this connection, and we are in favour of the fact that pharmacies as retail are separated from the bigogerists, because then they are not in an equal position, one would have, the other not in the region. Here is the great danger of corruption, which we talk about a lot, heard a lot about them, and the Minister has also given up partly because of it, so we really have to try at every step to prevent it, not to put into law the possibility that corruption is still at risk. The Pharmacy Chamber, which covers both public institutions and private pharmacies, is against this. However, as far as we are concerned, we are putting an end to something that is already in place, the transitional provisions, so that the possibility is one year up to three years at this more important Office for Transfusion, to arrange the matter in a different way, so that the matter is not suspended overnight, but is a possibility of a transitional period. And we give all the starting bases the same, for all pharmacies, that those who are pharmacies as retail sales should be retail sales; and that the wholesalers should be wholesalers, so that there is competition on the second level here too, but not among themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia is a country with far-reaching regular occupations or activities. At the same time, we also have the largest share of the country's ownership in the economy. And where did that get us? What has caused us to reduce the number or risk of corruption and cartel arrangements? We didn't! Therefore, I firmly believe that by limiting existing Grosses with these additional restrictions, we will increase these risks – not reduce – so we are working in the wrong direction. To make it clear what we are talking about: 90% of the drug market according to the Ministry is currently controlled by 4 wholesalers. We will further restrict these 4 Grosses, which we are talking about in Article 105. In doing so, on a committee where I am only a member of this committee, I have thought much more broadly than I have been discussed before my interlocutors. Like many of you, I am involved in the upbringing of my 3 young children, and in this case I draw parallels. As caring parents, we all want to protect our children from external risks, from crime, from harmful influences, such and different ones, but that is why we do not lock them in our homes, into our homes, but influence their confidence and give them the opportunity to freedom. And we should do that in this area. Therefore, I firmly believe that only competition, the open market, transparency of business and effective supervision are a guarantee for a healthy business environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Good-bye again. As I have already said in the position of our parliamentary group, we believe that the regulation of this area does not belong in the Medicinal Products Act, but in the Pharmaceuticals Act. We agree that the vertical connection is not good. Although, on the other hand, I wonder why velodrogerists are now investing in the Constitutional Court for themselves to be able to carry out pharmaceutical activities. Look at how double-crossed we are. Those who are currently doing the trade would like to have more pharmacies. Those who now have pharmacies and have set up, if you're going to say, a wholesale trade, we want to stop it. It's not working. This needs to be systematically regulated in the system law. Secondly, public procurement is a good thing and needs to be systematically regulated in such a way as to contribute to an optimum price. Sadly, however, this is not the case in the field of health. The fact is that we have one of the highest prices of medicines, not just because we are a small market, even because of all the other things. See what KPK wrote: Slovenian public health is not effective in ordering medicines. The type of procurement decisions in health care is infected by conflicts of interest. However, the analysis of the financial flows shows that the supply market for medicinal products is also likely to be cartelly distributed and, according to the percentages among suppliers, has been concrete for years. We're trying to stop this. Therefore, we propose to take our time, to find a good solution in the Law on Pharmacy. I'm sure we'll see it at the beginning of next year. Let's think about how we're going to influence the elimination of anomalies, and of course it also affects the fact that our people will have optimal drug prices, of course within given frameworks. I will therefore support the amendment of the members of the positive Slovenia Group, the National Gazette and our party to Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. At first, I would like to say that the law is late, as many of you have found out. The deadline was January this year, and I am protesting that we are always Members under pressure that we must take something urgently quickly and I do not know how until those who should have done their jobs at the Ministry have done it. As it is said, the law should be here in January, not that we are now accepting it with delay, and we have an additional two months to settle it because we have not arranged it before. In the case of amendments to such an important law, it is important to be very careful. We have a lot of corruption in this country at all levels, in all areas, in health care. As has already been said, the Minister has also resigned. Most of the time, we talk about systemic corruption, so that something allows us to enter into the marriage into solutions that we cannot then pursue or are not possibly a crime. We have a whole lot of this legislation and we don't fix it right. At this point, we will obviously take a decision again, which, as mentioned above, will allow monopolies to be restored. We know that then they cannot be broken, that the problem is that there is nothing to be done, all law enforcement or supervisory authorities are then complaining that they could not control that they could not take measures and so on. We therefore supported in the SDS the amendment of DeSUS to Article 105, which was adopted by the Committee. The amendment that has now been tabled is not supported. We believe that the primary task of healthcare homes is not to engage in wholesale drugs, but to do what they are set up to do. As has been said, the Pharmacy Chamber is against it. Once again, we often have control issues in this country and if it is clear who is a wholesaler, who is a retailer, selling a drug, control can take place. Otherwise, things are always intertwined and eventually the supervisory authorities find that they were unable to identify something. But if we write it in the law in the way you suggest it, it'll be even harder. Then in a year we'll be dealing with why this happened, and then someone will say again, legislation is bad, Members are guilty of accepting it this way. I estimate that there is a limit to where it should be. Thank God they are, or it would probably be worse in many areas. I will not support the amendment proposed, and I am sure that it is properly governed by Article 105, which was adopted by the amendment to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for once again. I would like to explain that the transitional provisions are indeed provided for in this Act, namely for healthcare providers for 3 years and pharmacy activities for 1 year, but this is not the time. The problem is there's no solution. We are now adopting a law where the consequences are not defined or foreseen, we do not know what will happen, we simply said, because it is time for this to be resolved. That's essentially disturbing. On the labour market, the Health Committee proposed that the municipalities or the state as the founder could take over such a wholesaler, and later it turned out that this was not possible under the Public Finance Act and the Public Finance Act, since it was clearly stated that public interest must be demonstrated and that such a solution would be disputed once again. It's confusing, not this time period, but that there's no answer to what's wrong with them. In principle, the argument that this connection should be terminated is also to avoid profit from the public cash register in private pockets. Right now, it's because the only way to privatise these greasys is to keep them working. So there is no solution and there is a problem that is open, so we are proposing this amendment to Article 105 in order to find the answer and precisely define it in the second law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u30	Your Honor! The adoption of this amendment would introduce a very restrictive provision, which provides that the transport of medicinal products by weight should not be carried out. We know that if a municipality establishes a company, it is in the public interest, it is based on the tasks and responsibilities laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government. But with the adoption of the amendment, there is virtually no way for the municipality to set up a company that deals with the trafficking of drugs. A company like this could only be private, and I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. In my position, I have stated all the essential elements that advocate the provisions of Articles 105 and 197. In this vertical integration, there is a marked conflict of interest between the public service, health services, pharmacies and wholesalers who are pursuing exclusive profits. The profit will go to their operation, and he won't go to the insurance company. In short, this type of work is actually unacceptable, and this is also being prevented in Europe. I have said that there are already 13 countries that prohibit this vertical integration, and this number is increasing. We will not support the two amendments tabled by the three coalition parties in DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I give the debate paragraphs 126, 127, 162, 191 and 204. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS to Article 126 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 127, 191 and 204. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS to Article 162 is, in substance, linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 191 and 204. That is why we will discuss them together. In this way, I am putting to the debate Articles 126, 127, 162, 191 and 204 and the amendments of the parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you. To begin with, Articles 126 and 127. With the amendment, the proposed regime for the issue of medicinal products across the network is complemented by the issue of medicinal products via interconnectors in pharmacies and specialised shops. The proposed amendment adequately transposes the EU Directive, which provides for the conditions for carrying out such activities, the use of the common logo set by the European Commission and the authorisation procedure. The amendment is submitted on the basis of an agreed coalition agreement on the possibility of issuing medicinal products via the interconnector for the issue of medicinal products in pharmacies and specialised establishments. Let us remember that this was the comment of the Chamber of Commerce. This comment is also partly taken into account by the Ministry of Health. This amendment has already been arranged. The Council of State has also expressed its satisfaction that this amendment has found understanding at the Ministry of Health. Article 162 of the Health Committee remained open. I hope this is settled, and I ask the Ministry of Health to explain this article because I do not know the final result. Article 141 refers to the provision of medicines in exceptional cases. The legislative procedure is proposed in Article 141 by providing medicines in exceptional circumstances from the State budget. The Commission agreed with the opinion of the Health Insurance Office that the protection of medicinal products in exceptional circumstances is a safeguard measure in the field of protection. This amendment was also approved by the Ministry of Health and found a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not oppose the remaining amendments that are not problematic. This Article 126 is cute because it abolishes Article 126a and combines activities into a single article, both retail and inter-networked medicines, which is something new through the directive. And so this applies to medicines, pharmacies as well as specialised shops. If I can illustrate that some pharmacy lobby was also required to have a specialised shop shut down in the formation of the law. And one of the suggestions in the past has already been written that way. However, this is about, I don't know how many of them are in Slovenia, which is something that they're living with, they have trained personnel, equipment and so on. That's what's left in there. There was also a thought about why on the Internet. Why not? If it is the same for pharmacies, it should also be for these specialised shops selling medicines without a prescription and other devices that it is also competitive. Like I said, it's a nice thing, and we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting paragraphs 141 and 142 into the debate. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette, DeSUS to the 141st Article is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to the 142nd Article and we will therefore discuss both together. I am putting to the debate 141st and 142nd paragraphs and amendments of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS to these articles. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 144 and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 186 and the amendment of the Members' Groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. This concludes the consideration of the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Determination of Public Interest in Culture within the framework of the ordinary procedure. There are currently no government representatives in the Chamber who could provide a supplementary explanation of the bill, but the draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture as a mother's working body. The committee's report could be mag. Majda Potrat as president, she's not in the hall right now. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is substantively building up some important areas in culture and will therefore receive our support. Although a comprehensive amendment of this law is being announced in a short time, which we welcome, it is appropriate to address the shortcomings identified so far. Other important changes are proposed in the area of the introduction of active ministry policies relating to the activity of self-employed persons in culture. It is also very important for local communities to commit by law to the preparation of four-year local cultural programmes. This could also mean additional value from the point of view of the national communities, so we discussed the proposal at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities. Due to the expansion and substantive upgrading of cultural programmes in the local environment created by members of the national community and their institutions, we felt that local communities or municipal cultural programmes should be included in the four-year programmes. The four-year cultural design or programme of the local community must therefore be created in cooperation with the competent organisations of indigenous national communities and Roma communities. In this context, at a meeting of the Commission for the National Community, we adopted, almost unanimously, only one vote against, the text of the amendment, which we forwarded to the competent national working body — the Committee on Culture. The amendment was also substantively supported by the Ministry of Culture. Otherwise, the content of the amendment has changed slightly at the meeting of the parent working body, so the current text of the proposal underlines only the importance of involving those communities in the preparation of the programme, but not just the integration of this. Otherwise, it does not rule out this, and despite a somewhat divergent interpretation, we feel that the purpose or message of our proposal, or the warning, has also been achieved. With our second proposed amendment, we wanted to ensure the formal participation of the national communities in informing members of the councils of public institutions in the field of culture when institutions operate in the national mixed area. However, we have already learned in our coordination with the Ministry that this proposal will not be supported, as it is supposed to be more about the content of the sub-legislative acts. The interpretation has been acceptable to us, but we are convinced that our thinking has been useful and that the content mentioned in the specific implementation of the law will also make sense. Well, if I may sum it up. We believe that the proposal to amend the law brings an upgrade in the field of culture, and in general also from the point of view of the national communities, so, as I have announced in the first place, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Dragan Bosic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Unfortunately, I cannot present the representatives of the Government, but I welcome you, Members of the people. In Positive Slovenia we will support the completion of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. It is a matter of supplementing a law that is over 10 years old and needs some revitalisation, especially because some things need to be added in the context of the national cultural programme. Of course, the system law will follow, but by then these solutions are welcome, especially in the area of self-employed people in culture. There are 3 measures; the allowance – the allowance is already symbolic in nature, but in the given circumstances it is welcome – then the area of accounting and hospital, hospital stock, the absence of self-employed people in culture. As far as public institutions are concerned, I have to fix my colleague, this is a five-year plan, not a four-year plan, but if he were six-year-old, we would like him even more, or seven-year-olds or ten-year-olds; as for the institutions and education required for members of the world, because the area of culture is only a little specific. In Positive Slovenia, we are working hard to save the status of ballet dancers, where it is specific. I think Tchaikovsky, when he created Swan Lake, had in mind the role of Odette and Odile 50, 60, 70 ballet dancers, although some of them would be able to do it emotionally, but the body has its legitimacy. That is why, even at some symbolic level, we support this solution to the system law and we want it to be properly resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture has been in force since 2002 and has been subject to a number of changes at the time of implementation. The law governing the specificities of cultural activity has proved to be inadequate or inadequate in certain provisions, including because of changes in other areas other than those of the Ministry of Culture. The applicant noted that some parts of the law require radical changes requiring a wider consensus of all stakeholders in the field of culture. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the law only address the most pressing problems relating to the implementation of the law and the provision of public interest. Some of the changes are also the basis for further major changes in the public sector, non-governmental organisations, civil society and financial incentives. If I touch the content itself, which is divided into four chapters. As regards documents of public interest in the field of culture, public agencies and public funds are committed to working on the basis of a strategic plan to be adopted for 5 years. The law also lays down the bodies responsible for adopting the strategic plan and its scope. In the field of public sector or The functioning of public institutions requires radical changes, but the proposed amendment of the law regulates only the most urgent ones, which at the same time provide the basis for the preparation of systemic changes. Thus, public institutions undertake to have a valid strategic plan for a period of 5 years, which must be previously coordinated with the founder and the financier, to determine the scope of this plan. This also regulates the temporary financing of public institutions. The third chapter to be highlighted is support for public cultural programmes, cultural projects and the provision of spatial conditions for their implementation. The possibility of putting public cultural infrastructures into use is newly regulated for those individuals who engage in non-profit cultural activities and whose cultural projects are not financed by public funds. It also redefines the coverage of operating and other costs when public cultural infrastructure is put into the management or use of cultural operators free of charge, and the reimbursement of costs if the manager or user of public cultural infrastructure provides the infrastructure or part thereof in the use of the public institution. The financing of cultural projects that have successfully run with cultural projects in the institutions of the European Union outside the Republic of Slovenia is also subject to new funding. The funding of cultural institutions established to provide services of general interest in the field of international cooperation shall be systematically regulated. The chapter or area of self-employed people in the field of culture is also very important, where incentives are introduced for self-employed people who will create better conditions for cultural creation and make the status more attractive. The termination of the right under the law shall also be determined when the self-employed fulfils the conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension. In summary, the shortcomings of the current regime are resolved by the proposed law and important sub-legislative acts will also be adopted for the implementation of the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. We will also support the amendments tabled in our Group of Members by Articles 1 and 6 but will not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of the Civil Code and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, President. I'm sorry I wasn't in the hall when I was supposed to report as chairman of the committee. I find that this has happened to me for the first time in a long, sent-away career, I have been under another obligation. Therefore, in the opinion of the Group, I will take the opportunity to say only the basic position. The Group of Social Democrats supports the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, while also supporting the solution that we supported at the Committee's meeting concerning the professional pensions of ballet dancers. With regard to other solutions, this means that we do not support the amendments that now destroy the position adopted on the Committee. Now let me say something else from the committee's report, because I think it would be a shame to pay attention to something that has been done properly on the committee. At the meeting of the Committee, the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, initially said that the key objective of the proposed changes was to address the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the law and to prepare a basis for further major changes that would include new solutions in the field of the public sector, NGOs, self-employment in culture, civil society participation, financial incentives and others. , The proposal for a law commits public institutions to have a strategic plan for a period of 5 years, defines their content, regulates the temporary financing of public institutions during the first quarter of the current year, unless conditions are given to issue a decision on the financing of the programme for the entire current year. However, members of the boards of institutions shall be committed to training, whose content, scope and method of implementation shall be determined by the Minister responsible for culture. In order to promote self-employment in culture and to improve the situation of self-employed persons in this area, an urgent action of the active policy of the Ministry is being introduced which will make the status more attractive and ease their poor economic situation and increase the capacity to create. This ensures accounting for self-employed persons, the allocation of cultural allowance, the introduction of compensation for the time of the hospital and others. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained the relatively large opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the bill and said that some of their solutions were covered by the amendments, and not all of them were later taken into account. For example, the already mentioned ballet amendment. If we look at the areas in which the debate was particularly touched – especially local cultural programmes. He's already talked about it, Dr. Göncz, which is why I'm not going to repeat my views on this. In the debate on Article 7 of the novel, which introduces the training of members of the Councils of Public Institutions in the field of culture, there were some questions as to why training should take place each year, what training costs will be and what training will be provided. The Minister explained that the content, scope and manner of training are determined by the Minister responsible for culture. Training will be carried out by the Ministry, but if a member of the Council does not attend, that may be the reason for his discharge. Since training will be conducted by staff at the Ministry or others in public administration, the financial implications are not foreseen. He also said that the introduction of training would ensure the completion of persons who are required to carry out the tasks laid down by law. With regard to the introduction of the professional pension of ballet dancers, the amendment of the Committee was proposed and adopted by Article 12 of the amendment. The debate expressed the hope that the problem of ballet dancers and other specific professions would be addressed in systemic legislation. The debate was also concluded with opinions on the preparation of strategic plans and the introduction of incentives for self-employed persons. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u46	Your Honor, a nice hello again! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture obliges public institutions, inter alia, to have a valid strategic plan for a period of 5 years, which must be previously coordinated with the founder and the financier. The financing of public institutions shall also be temporarily regulated and the compulsory training of members of the Public Service Council shall be introduced. The possibility of providing public cultural infrastructures for the use of those individuals who carry out cultural activities is non-profitable and their cultural projects are not financed by public funds. Legal basis for pre-financing of co-financing of public cultural programmes and cultural projects shall be laid down. Financing of projects of cultural operators that have successfully run with cultural projects in the institutions of the European Union outside the Republic of Slovenia is also under way. Incentives are introduced for self-employed people who will create better conditions for cultural creation and make the status more attractive. We support amendments and additions to the law on the exercise of public interest in culture in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, while at the same time we expect an amendment to be adopted, which we have tabled together with the DeSUS Group, proposing the deletion of the new fourth paragraph of Article 83. The anticipated professional pension of ballet dancers is a non-systematic interference with the system of professional insurance. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we do not support partial solutions that constitute unequal treatment, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak will postpone the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After more than 10 years of implementation, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest requires radical changes. As far as we know, the Ministry of the Preparation of the New Law has already begun. Today's proposal, however, introduces only the most urgent changes that address the most pressing problems with the implementation of the law and the provision of public interest. The new law regulates the status of self-employed in a culture which has deteriorated significantly due to economic conditions. Three new forms of support for self-employed persons are being introduced, or with limited financial resources, however. This is a cultural allowance instrument for self-employed persons, free accounting and hospital time compensation for those whose illness lasts more than 30 working days. In doing so, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we would like to pay a special tribute to Minister Grilc, who transferred the funds from the so-called "minister's position" to the position of self-employed in culture. It is a commendable act that has made it clear that the self-employed in culture are its priority and that the minister is not solely because of his function. During the consideration of the proposal, the issue of professional pensions of ballet dancers was particularly raised. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that ballet dancers are one of the most vulnerable groups among cultural professions due to daily severe physical and mental burdens. However, the proposed solution envisaged by the amendment of the Committee on Culture is non-systemic and would bring anomalies into the general framework of professional insurance, both in terms of the payment of professional insurance contributions and in terms of equal treatment with other professional insurance insurers. Regulation of professional pensions for ballet dancers, while this remains unregulated for example. For miners, ironsmiths and founders, it would be unfair and unfair. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is imperative that a regulation be adopted as soon as possible to establish criteria and criteria on the basis of which to decide which jobs fall within the framework of professional insurance and which do not. This will make it possible to systematically address the area and at the same time ensure equal treatment for all who perform heavy and health-related work. There is no way to ignore the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have also attached to our opinion. The partiality of the solution contained in the present proposal has also been pointed out by our Legal and Legislative Service, whose opinions we respect in the DeSUS Group. And that is why we have decided in our Group to table an amendment to Article 12 and thus to eliminate this incoherence, non-systemicism and partiality. Let me add that the proposed solution, which provides for an exception to the other pension system, would also affect the financial stability of the pension fund. And the ballet dancers would do it because of the early oz. early retirement ensured extremely low rights under professional and compulsory pension insurance. We believe that the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors and the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette will be adopted and will be acceptable to us as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u50	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian culture is a treasure of national creation through the centuries and we are proud of it by Christian Democrats and want to preserve it. At the same time, with appropriate legislation, we want to promote the creativity and cultural participation of modern creators. In our view, this is also the greatest public interest in culture. The law, however, introduces some good solutions, as well as some that we do not support in New Slovenia. There is a lack of consistency in the Minister's competence to decide on the financing of cultural projects. These powers shall be infringed in relation to the expert commissions. The Minister will be bound by the decision of the expert commission, and so far the Commission has only been able to propose, recommend or advise. On the other hand, the Minister now maintains the possibility of a fairly arbitrary decision on the use of the so-called intervention funds by article 20 of the novel, since it is not difficult to state more or less compelling reasons for the legitimate justification that this is a matter of public interest in the field of culture. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia believe that the Minister should be able to manage the sum at his own discretion. However, such an item must be strictly limited and without the possibility of transferring to other areas, while at the same time its use must be transparent, with the possibility of online viewing. We must also draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which draws attention to the modest explanations given to the individual articles of the novel and to the substantive disputed provision governing the delegation of the duties of the Minister to another person, and to the ambiguity of certain other articles. Members and Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will not oppose the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December 2013. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There is an interest in the debate, so I invite you to report. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleague and colleague, Minister with co-workers! This law on the exercise of public interest in culture is an important law. As a result, the public or the human being would expect to be treated as such by the Ministry. However, I must say that both the Law-Legal Service and us – Members have found that this is not the case. For already in the aims of the law, they state in their explanation that, in addition to the changes in the shortcomings, one of the objectives is also the preparation of the basis for further fundamental changes. In the section of public institutions, they also state in the explanation of the law that fundamental changes are needed in the field of the functioning of public institutions, but that they regulate only the most necessary, at the same time providing a basis for the preparation of systemic changes. The Legislative and Legal Service has found that we have not known such dictions, such explanations so far in Parliament. I have also pointed out to the committee that if we analyze this, this law is one of the laws by which it attempts to discredit the National Assembly and Members. Because it's just an intermediate law. The Ministry publicly acknowledges that it is a small adjustment, although systemic solutions are needed. Do we not have a government capable of making the fundamental changes they are talking about? We are given the law on a table to hire the National Assembly and Members in a short time to lose a few hours of work for a few days, so that the people can cry out, "Keep talking and save nothing." This law is not intended for a solution because they themselves acknowledge that it is short-term, that it is only a basis for preparing systemic changes. And I would like the Ministry to apologize to the National Assembly and Members for such a miserable approach. The people have elected the government to eliminate what is not working. In our amendment, we are giving a small supplement to submit amendments to the national programme by explaining measures and rehabilitation if the implementation of the national programme for culture is waived. And that's obviously gonna be necessary. I expect them to propose something like this in this June if they are already aware that the matter is not working in this area, that fundamental changes are needed. In doing so, it must also be said that what you anticipate in public institutions is compulsory education for members of the supervisory boards and specific training for members is needed, on the outside, to work well and useful. This is what all Members agree that it is about the legalization of the service of some people, that they will then interpret courses and seminars. You are obliged to write legislation in such a way that they will run for the supervisory councils those who are qualified. This is not a matter for the Ministry and the budget to start training these people. Someone who has a public interest must be qualified to carry it out. And here you're laying the groundwork to recruit people who will be parties, coalitions after a year, but they won't have, if I say, a clue or that they'll be unqualified for what they're supposed to be doing. We know it's the easiest way to lead people like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u53	Mr Jerovšek, I must remind you that Article 1 discusses how a national programme can be changed if there is a derogation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u54	That is why we have added this sentence — in the event of a derogation and by explaining the remedial measures. If we want to send the ministry – when they themselves have written down that they are only doing half-baked solutions – to be able to do so when they are examined, on finding that they are not being carried out, that the derogations are being made, that they will make remedial measures by way of justification, because otherwise they have no idea that they can propose something, but they are not proposing anything. And that's exactly what I'm talking about and Article 1. President, I think it is such a traditional practice to touch on a little broader inconsistencies or the law itself. And that's how it's always been. And I am obliged to point out that for the first time in Parliament's history, there has been a dictatorship of law, in the text of an explanation that it is only temporary, but that more fundamental changes are needed. We sometimes, when it is not so reasoned, say Members – a system law is needed. That's the second we warn. But when the government gives us a half product on the table, it's unacceptable. President, you are the first to protest against such a government. We're wasting time on things that won't work, obviously.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, this law meets all the conditions for consideration and I have nothing to protest. But once again, I can remind you that you are completely out of the context of Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u56	To protest this explanation of what this law is intended for. If the Legislative and Legal Service can find out, then the President of the National Assembly is also obliged to follow up. I, the well-intentioned ministry, caution that such laws should not be brought into the National Assembly because they themselves recognise that this is no solution, but it is only a temporary correction. This is not a job! I will put an end to this. There has never been such a practice before, and it cannot be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you. He's trying to get mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, President. I have to make it procedurally clear that, in the second reading of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, we listen to things that do not have to do with the actual treatment of the law, but not with Article 1, in particular, of any direct relationship. In fact, all the corresponding chapters are recorded in the opening part of the Law as prescribed in the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the chapeau of the Act foresees a more extensive amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. With regard to Article 1 and the proposed amendment to Article 1, due to the accuracy of the debate, it should be said that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to this Article was taken into account by the adoption of the amendment at the meeting of the Committee. My proposal is procedurally related to the fact that I am aware that, as President of the National Assembly, you do not have any insight into how the debate was held at the meeting of the home working body, but I think that it was worth telling all this information, because this prevented us from having a second hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly because we do not have adequate information on what was actually happening on the working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u59	The opportunity to present the report has been and is open to the Rules of Procedure. The Minister also had the opportunity to present the law, unfortunately he was not yet in the Chamber, but now he is among us and I ask him if he wants a word. Here you go, Dr. Urosh Grillz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u60	Dear President, honourable Members! I'm sorry I'm late. You've obviously made a lot of haste with your work today. In short, he welcomed the fact that the proposed amendment to the law had survived a very thorough and extensive public debate. The public acting in or dependent on culture is, of course, the one that supports these changes. The changes are very specific. They address the status of self-employed in the field of culture and introduce 3 new instruments. They introduce a new instrument of cultural allowance, which, in addition to public service financing, public cultural programmes financing and funding for cultural projects, is the fourth instrument aimed exclusively at improving the situation of self-employed persons. An accounting instrument shall be introduced for those self-employed who are in a worse position after amending tax legislation. There is also a compensation for the absence of a hospital that lasts more than 31 days. This means that, in line with our priorities and our forecasts, we have focused on these changes on those key and actual changes that are also based on the 2014 national budget adopted and which will begin immediately after the amendment of the law. Some changes are highly strategic in nature, but in the spirit of the time when it is necessary to develop an area – and in particular the development of culture – not just one to another budget year. Therefore, the obligation of a strategic plan for all public institutions, as well as for local communities, which will have to prepare their local cultural programmes, we impose this obligation on all 11 municipalities, while we allow local communities to define their cultural priorities also in other development acts. It is not true what we have heard a little earlier in the debate that in some very arbitrary way the allocation of funds from the so-called "unforeseen action" items or actions is allowed. otherwise appointed ministers' items. Firstly, according to the law in force, if you compare 2 articles, we clearly define both – criteria and method of distribution – precisely so that the public interest is protected and that the decisions of the minister, which are linked to any projects that could not be foreseen in advance, now have a clear support mechanism and absolute transparency. You know all the cases where it didn't happen in the past. In view of the amendment of Article 1, which we are currently in, I must say, however, that the Committee on Culture, on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, has adopted an amendment to this Article, which also provides for reporting on the implementation of the National Programme for Culture and allows its amendment. It is right that the strategic documents are living acts, that these are not letters on paper, that we know that changes are taking place in all policies and also in individual markets such as the cultural market. Accordingly, it is necessary to amend the relevant strategic acts where there are some reasons. Therefore, the Committee adopted the amendment states: The Government may propose amendments and additions to the national programme for culture at any time during its period of validity, a proposal for amendments and additions may be submitted together with a report to the National Assembly. I think that there is a clear definition of the weight of these changes and the way we get them, that they ultimately have the support of the National Assembly, as well as the national programme for culture, is confirmed by the National Assembly. So much for once, I would now ask that the third consideration of this law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Andrey Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. Although I have not been in the National Assembly for a long time, it seems to me that the National Assembly is adopting oh and the large number of strategic guidelines and strategic documents listed above, whose implementation is then not controlled or is not taken into account in the setting of some guidelines. But here I am not specifically referring to the Ministry of Culture, but we can say that we accept these documents in many areas and areas. And when it comes to the situation of taking ourselves into a particular area – in this case we have also adopted a national programme for culture, it should be in force. In the case of these derogations, we have proposed an amendment to the SDS Group of Members, namely that if the Government deviates from the implementation of the national programme for culture in the course of the report to the National Assembly, it may propose amendments and additions to the national programme for culture, but it must also explain the remedial measures and the set of measures. Let me explain a little bit more. With the amendment, we just want to propose that changes to the national programme on culture should be proposed, that we avoid the state when the government is misleading the public, that failure to implement the programme is simply a consequence of unforeseen circumstances. Given that we here are its control, the supervisory authority of the Government, we also associate it with taking the national programme for culture seriously. This gives all stakeholders in culture the opportunity to draw attention, through the public mechanism, to the derogations in the implementation of the national programme on culture, and we can also improve these strategic orientations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? There are many of you, so I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I won't support this amendment because it doesn't have to be written twice. As the minister himself said, it's in the law and it doesn't have to be rewritten. For some, it may take three, four, five times to write something down to hold it, but for most of us, that's not the case. The fact that the Government has the opportunity and the right to make a difference is both normal and normal when it is determined whether it is a national programme or a law. When certain shortcomings and needs are identified, the matter needs to be changed. No law and no resolution is permanent, this is all temporary. However, as this law or individual document is more qualitative and takes into account the maximum number of comments, the law or resolution can be good. As previously said, the resolution of the national programme is flawed – not by any means. It is very good and has taken into account the comments made by all interested and professional public. That's the way it is with this law, so I'm not going to support this amendment. But I will support the law and thus give it an opportunity to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, President. The Committee's debate has shown that the applicant is fully aware that the national programme for culture can only be changed in the same way as the national programme is adopted. It was therefore necessary to amend Article 1. However, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was based only on the time limit set by the proposer that he or she was a proposer. a report on the implementation of the national cultural programme should be submitted by the end of June. The idea went this way so that the hearing could be put only in September and they had a comment in this way. Well, the debate later showed that the diction to report by the end of June was appropriate. What has been specifically added with the amendment – and let me say how this article now reads: "The government shall submit to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the national programme for culture in the past year by the end of June at the latest with an assessment of the results. The Government may propose amendments and updates to the national programme for culture at any time during its period of validity." This is a very important fact that amendments and additions can be submitted to the National Assembly at any time during the period of validity of the resolution. Further: "A proposal for amendments and additions may also be submitted together with a report to the National Assembly." It was misleading to explain that this bypassed the importance of the National Assembly so as not to attribute to it the appropriate role it had under law. It's a delusion! Because this article doesn't say that. What the proposed amendment otherwise says is that it only builds on one element of the derogation from the national cultural programme, which is linked to the need for rehabilitation. I cannot support such a proposal because I see that the current dictatorship in the amended bill is broader because it speaks of additions and amendments. The changes are likely to involve something that cannot be achieved and additions where the national programme can go beyond what has been predicted. I think it is now appropriate to dictate in Article 1 that the marks we have heard are twisted from the vine. I cannot support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! Culture in Slovenia – perhaps you could say that we have multiple cultural problems. It seems to me that if we have problems maintaining agriculture in our country, we can say that we also have culture. This is not twisted from the vine, for at first culture meant preservation of or. the cultivation of fertile soil, and only then did this shift to mental culture as an activity involving the human mind. Assessing the area of culture as a sum of achievements of values of human society, Slovenian society as a result of human activity and creation is the most difficult. The evaluation of the results, which is considered to be the effect of the work and implementation of the national programme for culture for the past year, is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To preserve this, the government must report to the National Assembly. Therefore, it must be considered and identified by the National Assembly. This amendment, proposed by the SDS, would regulate non-compliance with the obligation to implement the national cultural programme so that the government can propose amendments and additions if it deviates from the implementation of this programme. This serves as some kind of guardian for all derogations or for non-implementation or unforeseen circumstances, so I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? I see a wish. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you. Dear colleague Janja Našast, there is an article on amendments and additions to the bill of speech. What you are offering with your amendment is an addition "in brackets", by explaining the remedial measures. Which will be saved, how much of this will be saved. You assume that changes and additions can only go into contraction, but not into any other change, where priorities would otherwise be set or otherwise. Could not close temporary folder: %s This is an amendment for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Someone else wants to discuss the amendment tabled. He does. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Earlier it was said from a colleague who is no longer here, that only some things need to be stressed or even written down more often. Our amendment did not go into repeating and writing. He went in this direction to explain the measures when there is a deviation of the visible, for there is an explanation to see whether there is anything serious to be done or not to be done seriously. But with a colleague, when he said that only some people needed it to be written repeatedly, they would understand. In all areas of this government, I see that it is not recorded. What they wrote down in the program after 8 months is significant deviations and it is not true at all. I don't think it will help them if anything is written down more than once, because I think they wrote down that they will present the people transparently as the culprits for bad loans. Now it's a great achievement that it was clearing tests, and nothing's going to come out again. Nothing! You can't. Everyone yells at one horn so it can't be and can't be. If I give an example of where the worst deviations from what some government has written into the program are, it doesn't. And I know this is how it's gonna be here. I am already convinced that the national programme for culture, in writing, this government does not intend to implement, of course, at the expense of the creators, because otherwise it would not appear in the accompanying words in the text that more radical changes are being prepared. For 8 months now, the government has been covering this area, and instead of preparing all the necessary root system changes at that time, it is smothering the National Assembly with salad, with matter. The National Assembly should be tortured to discuss it. What is written is not meant to be serious, for in three months we will bring in a different marriage. This is not serious, irresponsible and is the law for the discreditation of Parliament! And similar matter has already appeared on another committee. I see that this has been arranged systemically on the government – put something on the table, you will hire Members, and then we will fix it in time. The government, which chooses to make a half-life law for itself, will then have an easier explanation when it proposes a system-wide solution. Now this law acts as if they are looking for a basis for how they will then be able to explain the more fundamental changes they are predicting. Of course, I do not agree with this, which is why our amendment has also been tabled to at least explain at this point what you are going to do, otherwise the dead letter will be on paper again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment tabled under Article 1? I see he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. With this amendment to Article 6, we propose that the new fourth paragraph should be amended to read: "The strategic plan shall be adopted for a period of 5 years and may also contain long-term orientations that go beyond that period. The strategic public service plan shall cover programme guidance and the envisaged scope of the programme, organisational guidance, the definition of investments and investment maintenance, and the basis for the human resources plan, which shall also include expected external staff. It is necessary to obtain a prior opinion from the founder, the financier of the public institution and the professional council of the institution as part of the strategic plan. If the Director does not adopt a strategic plan until the expiry of the previous one, that is the reason for its resolution." Let me just add a few words of explanation for a little while longer. We believe that it is also necessary to obtain the opinion of the professional council of the institution, as they are now members of the professional council of the institution after the new mandatory or. they have an obligation to participate in various educations within the Ministry of Culture each year. Therefore, we feel that it is certainly right for members of the professional councils to give their own preliminary opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Uroš Griltz, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u76	Dear Mr. Hear! The current supervisory law provides for two councils in the field of public institutions, the Council of the Institution as the highest management body. The amendment to ZUJIK, which we are dealing with, is about the education of members of the boards of institutions. Professional councils are required under this law in those public institutions that have more than 20 employees. This means that today we have quite a few public institutions where there are simply no professional councils, because institutions are too small and where these functions cannot be separated in this way. In this respect, I must point out that we also have clear tasks in the existing law, both in the professional council and in the institution's world. Article 40 of the ZUJIK provides that the Council of Experts shall determine the appropriateness of the strategic plan of the public institution, whereas Article 35 provides that the Council of the institutions shall give its consent to the strategic plan. What you are proposing in the amendment is therefore contrary to the tasks of the professional councils and the boards of institutions, which is why your amendment is not most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u78	I would like to comment on this article from a linguistic point of view. I think it's very vaguely written. The first sentence states that the strategic plan shall be adopted for a period of five years. I think it would be good to write about who accepts it, because the sufferer or the passive is rarely used in Slovenian and is less recommended; we use it when the person is not known. This is where you know who accepts it. As a result, the last sentence: "If the Director does not accept the strategic plan until the expiry of the previous one, this is the reason for its resolution." I hear he doesn't accept the director of the strategic plan. Is it accepted by the director or accepted by the board of the institution? The director accepts it, yeah, then that's what's going on. However, I warn you about the language in this law, if you read the amendment on the insurance of ballet dancers, I counted the lines, almost 7, 6 rows and a half, one sermon, and you have to read it several times before we even know what it is. I know that the laws are written by lawyers, but we need to understand all citizens. Language accuracy should therefore also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not wish, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment tabled by Article 6. We are moving on to the amendment tabled to Article 12. It was submitted to the DeSUS and DL Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? He does. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The initial draft law, which was coordinated with the various stakeholders, contained an article dealing with the issue of occupational pensions. Later, this was removed from the bill. However, if we look at the opinion of the National Council, it is clear from that opinion that in the State Council they have learned the need to regulate the issue of professional retirement for ballet students. Since it was not possible to include a new article in the law, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, the only option was to address this issue in the article in force, in which we added the fourth paragraph. Proposal 2 of the groups of Members now provides that the new fourth paragraph of Article 83 shall be deleted. Let me explain why we oppose the deletion of paragraph 4 in the Group of Social Democrats. The question of professional pensions or the possibility of the career of ballet dancers and dancers is an issue that we have been facing for a long time. Whenever we have dealt with this issue, it has been said that it is necessary to find a systemic solution, but it shows that there has never been a proper hearing for a systemic solution because ballet girls have tried to direct other professions after the end of the ballet career. I will not make comparisons with some other time-bound careers. The fact is that due to the way artists are educated and to the inclusion in the system of salaries of public servants, payment for the top artistic achievements of ballet players is also governed by the applicable law, where the starting point for determining the basic salary is also, in particular, education. That the acquisition of a ballet dancer or dancer is related only to secondary education is a fact in Slovenia. Even those who looked at the monthly receipts of ballet dancers may have been appalled, especially if they were adhering to ballet art. When we dealt with the issue of professional pensions during the previous government of Ivan Janša and we discussed ZPIZ-2, I drew attention to this problem at the meeting of the parent working body. From the magnetogram, I read the explanation of the mags. Andrej Visiak: "Before the director of the Directorate explain the details, just so much, see, you have now gone to Article 8, which accidentally mentions, otherwise has nothing to do with the demographic fund, nor with the amendment, but with a basic article which also defines only one thing that employers finance professional insurance." Who's that? Well, this is where I received the reproof, as you can see, of the billmaker. "Look, I understand that professional insurance is linked to a number of very specific professions and we generally regulate it under this law and we have coordinated it for a very long time. I estimate that there are virtually only a few little things still open and that the matter will be coordinated until the end of the hearing, but we are talking about general professional insurance. Of course, we cannot regulate in this law the professional insurance of police officers, the professional insurance of the military, customs officers, those who work on radiation devices, ballet dancers and so on. If specific questions are raised for a truly specific profession, such as the one mentioned by you, so are ballet dancers and ballet dancers, any derogation from the system must be regulated by a sectoral law and cannot be regulated by the general rule." These are the quoted words of the Minister responsible for the area of invalidity and pension insurance. And the proposal adopted by the Committee speaks precisely of this specificity. I am aware that the Ministry of Labour does not accept such a solution as it is proposed, but those who knew that ballet players from trade union agreements were simply overheared or unheard should be aware when this solution in the field law is now proposed that there is no other place than in the field law. I'm aware that's not the best solution. The amount of pension provided for by this is also miserable, so it is publically almost awkward to tell me. But this is the first step, the first concrete step in solving the problem of professional art pensions that we are willing to accept in this country as part of our national cultural wealth. In the Group of Social Democrats, we cannot support amendment 2 by coalition groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Mr. Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. As far as support or non-support for this amendment is concerned, I must find that I am even agreeing with Mrs Potrato today, and I hope that this will not change her mind. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we discussed this amendment in a long and broad manner, and in the end we decided almost unanimously to adopt or put to the vote this amendment as an amendment to the Committee. I must say, after a while, I was a little bit surprised to see that this amendment was tabled by the Civil Gazette and the DeSUS party, given that there was no such debate there. Now the government itself has made several public commitments and has promised that it will go, as far as our ballet players are concerned, to find some concrete solutions that, unfortunately, we have not seen, we have not even been able to read them because they are not there. This thinking and support of this amendment has been encouraged in particular by the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State, which has identified and clearly highlighted some specific cases and the problems faced by our cultural workers, in this case ballet players. We will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. As far as Positive Slovenia is concerned, I said our position at the beginning, but something else should be added to the ballet players. Actually, my predecessor was embarrassed to say what kind of retirement is going on with the ballet girls. Clearly, it is embarrassing to say out loud that it is 250 euros. It's not awkward for me, but it's important for people to hear the numbers as well. These ballet dancers, if we look at the Maribor and Ljubljana ensemble, are 73, if I counted correctly, but I counted several times. That means the number isn't much either. The amendments, of course, will not be supported. But it's a matter that needs to be highlighted. It is our attitude toward ballet or art in general. If we don't "adopt" them in a symbolic way, then this is a very bad message. They're ready to wait for the system law. In what way certain laws have been passed in history or how long they last, the question is, given the life of the ballet players, I am talking about dancers in general, which is very low. We would therefore insist that at this time their beinned time be saved because we think they deserve it. If someone thinks differently, he can think, but I think that a nation in general needs culture, not just partiality. Ballet art certainly fits in this context. Youths who decide on the professional career of ballet dancers should also give a message that this decision is worthwhile and that we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Mr Marko Pavlišič wish to speak, and then the Minister gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I agree that this article, which regulates the possibility of professional insurance and an additional age for ballet artists, remains in this law. Although systematically this is not properly resolved and the government could agree and systematically arrange it in the law in which it belongs. However, with regard to this amendment, I expected the chairman of the committee to propose her amendment, which would bring this amendment into a completely understandable form, because colleague Ludmila Novak had previously warned that this was some sort of flier – the last time it was brought to the table by the proponents – and it should be arranged because it is a cultural area. Because the whole law is written in a practical way — simply a complicated and incomprehensible way. In particular, in the area of culture, laws should be written culturally, in cultural language, in an understandable language, and I see that this is not the case. And this amendment is just an addition to the fact that the whole matter of marriage is ultimately less understood than it should be. This is my comment, and I am joining my colleague Novak, who has previously warned that such behaviours, which are so complicated, should not be so long, and are unseemly in the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you. I have to admit, this is again about some non-systemic intervention in the pension system, which is somehow set up in the ZPIZ-2, and this is not the first such case, not the last one. But here I am disappointed at the colleagues of the SDS who were in receiving the last ZPIZ, full of mouths were opposed to various exceptions. And what are we experiencing today? Today, they are backing up such non-systemic exceptions. These matters need to be regulated, and here we need to find some systemic solutions, where it will also be clear who pays for these new rights, which we share here every day. This is where we drill a hole, a hole in a barrel that's already leaking too much. We have to stop this once. Let us stop today by supporting our amendment in this regard. Because because of this non-systemic approach to the pension system, we have a current pension allowance in trouble. Last year, we adopted changes to this law, and we're about to get a new one. Let us all imagine and see when we will stop granting certain rights to some groups. I agree they deserve it, maybe they deserve even more than they get here. Let us also make sure that funds are provided at the same time. By such measures as we are doing today and how we are doing this, unfortunately, we are only increasing the hole from which more and more money is creeping out every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, would you like to discuss it again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u90	I hope that I have understood my colleague Pavlišič that he has in some way supported me in the initial debate in Article 1, where I have pointed out that in the explanation of the law by the Ministry this is a temporary law that provides the basis for the drafting of the system law. He interpreted it through some rights that try to establish here as drilling holes, which he may even be. Look, Mr Pavlišič, the ministry wants to have such a law that it will be as smug as possible. They have written this in explanation that it is only temporary so that they can come with a new law, which will be called a roof or a system law, and will rely on the nonconsistency of the law that we are receiving today. If they want to have it, let them have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u92	I understand you and I am counting on your vote to settle this matter so that the Ministry can prepare a bill as soon as possible that will put it all together systematically. I believe you will support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A few readings on the language level of the law were heard. I do not intend to stand in the way of proposing and comment on concrete language solutions. But I'd like to say in this context. Neither passive is unknown in Slovenian language, nor are long statements unknown in Slovenian language. And when it comes to references to different legal bases — and because it has to be accurate guidance — it is not possible to avoid longer conduct. However, it is likely that anyone who reads the fourth paragraph of Article 83 will have a clear picture of what is going on. That 6 months is considered 12 months. I translate for those who say they don't understand. Balloons understand that. The dictatorship you have here is summarized according to the proposal of the State Council. The President of the Commission of the State Council is a Slovenian doctor, so he probably already knew what he was writing and how. However, that version, which I had prepared as an amendment to the amendment to the Committee, was inappropriate, was found to be inappropriate by the Legislative and Legal Service, because in the law that we are considering after a reduced procedure, we were unable to return the text that was omitted from this official and the National Assembly of the introduced version of the law. It is only possible to point out that in the last minute the amendments adopted are probably not the best solution. In this context, however, I appeal to the Ministry of Culture to prepare such a dictatorship, which will meet all the conditions, including those pointed out by the Ministry of Labour, in a more extensive amendment to the bill of public interest in culture. Because the magnetogram I read to you clearly says that financial resources should also be provided. That's what you should say at this amendment. However, it is possible for 1 ballet player per year and until such cases occur, I hope that the solution will be adequately prepared. However, it would be good to be responsible guardians of the language even when you propose your amendments — take a look at how they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. What was last said is that it is clear to everyone that it will take 12 months for a six - year period — that is not true. This is a thing that each individual must elude, but I doubt that it can usually be exhumed by some random reader or a cultural worker. However, I believe that the ballet girls probably know this when they discuss it; this is the only way the written law is not appropriate. My colleague Pavlišič said she hoped that the Ministry would bring a new law as soon as possible, and also a colleague of Potrat talked about the more extensive changes in the roof law. Mr. Pavlišič, you weren't here before. At the outset, I protested that we have something like this on the table where they base themselves on more extensive changes and, in my opinion, write non-constant things into the law, that they will have a basis for explaining a roof law that will come later. This is larpurlartism – if you go to culture:_something because something turns around, it looks like they're doing some ideas, but actually it's not. And you got it right when you told them to come with the basics as soon as possible. Why aren't they here now? Why didn't they come and think straight about what they were proposing? Why it is necessary to employ Members so that journalists can say, "they're translating, they're arguing about it" for what's going to happen in six months if I believe their words that they're going to bring a new law, that's all null and void. It's nonsense. And the current government employs Parliament in exactly this way, only to tire it out in order to adopt non-constant solutions. And I must say, this is a sin the government can afford. I appeal, I have previously appealed to the President of the National Assembly not to allow it, so we are not here to make fun of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you. It is true that for ballet students education can be concluded in high school, but also at the Music and Ballet Conservatory, education ends with graduation and all graduates must also demonstrate adequate compliance knowledge, including analysis of folded conducts. Please do not underestimate Slovenian graduates because what they know is known to others. You do not agree that laws should be made up of free sentences and simple conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? No, no, no. So Dr. Uroš Grilc, Minister of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u100	Your Honor, thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has devoted quite some time to the question of how the government tires Members of the law, which is temporary, even though we are talking about extremely concrete changes in the area of culture, which will have very important news for specific creators, as well as actual innovations. When speaking in the last proposed amendment about a very vague article written, we can all agree with it, but I must point out that this article is taken from the existing law on pension and disability insurance, which has such a dictatorship where we are changing exclusively and only a period of time, instead of a quarter, a half-year is added. I believe that this law, too, from a linguistic point of view, was well ventilated when you adopted it, but apparently the state of the spirit was that way. What is important in today's debate and why this arrangement is crucial is an understanding of a particular profession that is extremely specific and is subject to major psychological burdens. The average duration of the ballet in artistic terms from 20th to 35th, except no later than 40th. The time that only a quarter of this insured age has been added is really too short. And by extending it to half, we come to allow the ballet to have an adequate, timely pension, which is still very, very low, not to say miserable. 250 euros in old-age pensions is what we are talking about today, and thus we will achieve something else. We achieve that the artistic ensembles of the two operas – currently employing 78 ballet dancers – can also rejuvenate in an appropriate and timely manner so that they can be open to ballet dancers who are coming and who are waiting for their moment of artistic development. And in this way, the quality growth of these ensembles will also be ensured in the long run. Two figures are here, and one information is very important in particular, with this change we know exactly what the additional burden on the budget of the Ministry of Culture means, that is, approximately €16 000 per year. In this respect, the hole in this system law is valued precisely as much, and these funds will also be provided by the Ministry. We are aware that the solution is non-systematic, because we are talking about 78 artists who are currently working and whose number, as you know, will not increase. Since the restrictions on employment in the public sector are serious and because they are taken seriously by this Government, the proposed solution is a minimum, which we can do and correct past years' mistakes. Therefore, I ask both the opposition and the coalition in this place not to support the proposed amendment and to regulate this area in this way, as the amendment of the committee has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Only the minister who warned me where this article came from, this diction of the article; and in his hope that I am similarly critical of other laws – I must assure you. Just last week, I am in at least 2 marriages – one is an insolvency law, which is so complicated that a person who was a good student and a good student and never had any problems, which I was alone, having problems understanding. And I don't think there's any point in any marriage if it's written like that. We meet with this almost every day, now at all, since your government has been carrying laws to the table. I warned those insolvent people when I found out that the writing of the law was done by a lady who wrote various takeover laws and all that it couldn't be different because she repeats her own terminology and dictatorship. Of course, I don’t feel obliged that we — engineers who didn’t grow up to be a language in professional life or, if I say bad, to our mouths, we should be educated functionally, professionally, now that we’re probably awkward in language. I'll admit it myself. But those who are called to do so – and the Ministry of Culture is called – make sure that within the Government they do not wear such legal latrines to our tables. That's terrible, what we've been experiencing lately! As I can see, there is a purpose here — to complicate legislation as much as possible in order to make fishing as easy as possible in mud. Fishing in mud is one of the great goals and priorities of this government and its officials. Even in the financial field, it's so complicated written that you can't, but I can't tell you how normal, you can't almost understand! Come on, Minister, the constant concern is in your department that other ministers will put on the table laws that will normally do the job to a capable citizen to ensure that he understands them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. If there is no further desire to discuss, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment tabled to Article 12. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal for a law on the parent account of insured persons and users of the rights of compulsory death and disability insurance following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak; the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! There's a law before you with a long title. This is primarily a technical law whereby we regulate and enable the implementation of new legislation in the field of pension and disability insurance. At the same time, the proposal for a law is also one of the measures to improve the control of black employment. The proposed law introduces a mandatory electronic form of application for compulsory social insurance for both legal and natural persons. Electronic investment will be implemented by a transitional deadline of 1. 1. 2016, however, it is important that individuals, i.e. individuals and individuals, will still be able to apply physically at the windows of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. In order to register an employee in the employment relationship, the debtors must apply for compulsory pension and disability insurance at the latest on the day of work, as provided for in the employment contract, but not later than the start of actual work. We now had an 8-day deadline, which prevented effective control of the inspection to prevent work and employment in black. The draft law also lays down the obligation to deliver a certificate of application for insurance and write-off from the insurance to employers who are obliged to keep that copy of the certificate hot to the worker. So far, we've had this in check-out, and now we're applying this protection to the application. The service of certificates of application for insurance shall no longer oblige holders of public powers to notify insured persons on the basis of recognised rights. This is mainly the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Health Insurance, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and Social Work Centres, as this can be a huge cost, because of the large number of insured persons and also because of the large number of applications and cancellations for a shorter period of insurance, and this is a simplification for the functioning of these public institutions. The bill also provides for a new offence where the employer does not hand over a copy of the cancellation within 15 days. Unfortunately, practice has shown that it is not enough to just write down the employer's duty, but there must be a misdemeanour in the back. The proposal also foresees a significant burden on employers by providing data on basic and paid contributions, so that within 3 years after the implementation of this Act the institution will have the necessary data to form the M4 form directly from the tax authority – and this is indeed a major simplification. With this ZPIZ goes to complete e-business. Finally, it should be pointed out that the draft law before you removes administrative obstacles for employers and also for public institutions and thus saves them. At the same time, we also ensure, wherever possible, greater legal certainty for workers, in particular with the provisions I have mentioned. In front of you and in the debate, 4 amendments will also be tabled by coalition parties, perhaps mentioning the amendment to the 104th Article which emerged from the debate on the parent committee. This article, or this amendment, sets a range for offences, so the offences shall be defined within the range. This will allow the criminal authority to be more flexible in imposing the fine. Then there is the amendment relating to Article 114, which extends the period set by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act; that is to say, the need to harmonise the status of insured persons so that you cannot have a separate turnover or p. p. and be a pensioner at the same time. We extend this deadline for the harmonisation of the statuses from 31. This year's 12th at 31. 12. The following year, we give these pledges one more year of time to regulate their status. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u106	Dear Minister with colleagues, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome again! At its 22nd emergency meeting, the Committee considered the draft law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. On the proposal for a law, the National Assembly held a general discussion and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, on the basis of their comments, amendments were tabled to the parliamentary coalition groups following the opinion. Members and members of the Committee were also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported and assessed the measures introduced by the draft law as very positive. The representative of the applicant briefly presented the draft law in the introductory explanation, and the representative of ZPIZ said that the Institute had participated intensively in the drafting of the bill, and this proposal represents considerable progress also with a view to simplifying the data collection system and facilitating the business of applicants for applications. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented his written opinion and said that it was a proposed law to regulate an area requiring knowledge of a narrow specific issue, thus pointing out the need for the text of the law to be verified in cooperation with its operators, which is particularly the case with the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the debaters discussed mostly the new Article 95a, which adds a new chapter to the provision of personal data to foreign insurers, and the provisions of Articles 104 and 114 of the draft law. The debate on Article 104, which regulates data-transmission offences, raised the view that the fine is very high and raised the question whether it is proportionate to the offence or why there is no range. It was explained that the article was coordinated with the Ministry of Justice and the representative of ZPIZ said that proportionality was achieved by ranking according to the number of employees. Since the article has remained open, it can still be amended, so an amendment to this article has been tabled before us. A longer discussion was also held on Article 114, which regulates the status of the insured by means of an amendment. After a transitional period, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia will, by virtue of its official duty, determine the property of the insured, from 1. 1. 2015 forwards. After that period, all persons carrying out a separate activity shall be in the same situation as other insured persons subject to the incompatibility of the status of the pensioner and the insured. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, and a complementary proposal for a law is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 19th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December 2013. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment tabled? If he does not wish, I am closing the debate on the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 40. We are moving on to the amendment tabled to Article 90, which has also been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting forward an amendment to the 104th Article of the Coalition's parliamentary groups in the debate. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? He does. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. However, there would be something to say about this law, which has brought on the one hand alignment with the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, and on the other hand many benefits, simplification and what is particularly important to us – also new rights or better-ordered rights for people who apply to their mother's records. That's what you say for the weak side. In particular, it seems important to us to emphasise that the law introduces the novelty that the employer has to register the day he starts working; and that he must be served with both a written application and an insurance check-out. Let me get back to paragraph 104. Article 104 had an extensive discussion on the proportionality of penalties. As you can see, we have followed the recommendations made in the debate that penalties should be regulated within a range. This is set out in Article 104, which is why we support it. Article 114 also took into account the comments made in the public debate, and we can say that the law pursued as much as possible the interests of all those who participated in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you. On the basis of Article 138, I merely ask if we can have a discussion and also a third reading at the same meeting of the National Assembly, because it is essential that the law enters into force. 1st of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. We will take this matter into account in accordance with your proposal. I am also putting to the debate Article 114 and the amendments tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this article? If he doesn't want to, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 20th session of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 12.25 p.m., which is in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u112	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before we proceed with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft Law on Medicinal Products in the framework of the regular procedure, I see that the procedural proposal wishes to submit to Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request half an hour for the consultation of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Based on your proposal, I'm giving you half an hour's rest. We'll proceed at 12.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u115	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Medicinal Products in the framework of the regular procedure. I ask whether the proposer of a procedural proposal for consultation within the framework of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia wants an explanation or not? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of PS, SD and DL to Article 105. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Štefan Tisel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u116	Good bye to all of you! Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, a team from the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will vote against this amendment because it is returning to the law that a wholesaler can also have retail or vice versa – so that pharmacies can go to wholesalers, as some do when they want to cover the matter with the law behind them. In all these matters, there are very high risks of corruption, so we will once again support the opinion we had on the committee when DeSUS made an amendment to prevent this from being too harsh and vice versa - drug dealers too. Because pharmacies are mostly public institutions, regionally organised. We do know, however, that the public service is designed to provide people with the services they need in the interest of the public, solidarity, even honesty, so that they do not benefit from it. They do not aim to be profitable, but to provide those services that people in particular areas need. Now, there would be inequalities between pharmacies, besides public institutions, we also have small private pharmacies, which are healthy competitions to say so. However, we must not allow this to be a threat, as I mentioned earlier. That is why the SDS Group will oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The DeSUS Group will not support both amendments on the grounds that there is an unacceptable conflict of interest between public institutions and the wholesale of medicines. Health establishments provide public health care, while wholesale sales are for profit. That's both unacceptable, not compatible. The profit will only go to some, he will not return to public health, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The first word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. We've heard a lot about health corruption in the last few months. Even that's why the minister resigned. We often talk about systemic corruption, that some things are written in law, and we cannot view them as corrupt because paper is fine. They can't be persecuted for that, without breaking monopolies if some things are legally possible. We have a whole bunch of these legislations, and it is often because of this that Members point their finger at us that it is our fault that we are adopting bad legislation and that we have bad legislation. We are convinced that the DeSUS amendment, which was adopted under Article 105, has also been supported by the Committee in our parliamentary group, prevents monopolies from forming on the drug market, in order to reduce the possibility of avoiding public procurement of medicines, as has been said. When things are clear, when we know who it is who sells medicines for change, and those who go to a velegrost, then we can control things. We have a control problem in this country in all areas. All regulators cancel on the entire line and now we will enter into the law a solution that will allow, as I said, monopolies, to prevent good control of what is going to happen. As you know, there's also a pharmacy chamber against. I estimate that the amendment proposed by some of the parties without DeSUS is harmful and bad, so we will insist on the solution that we have supported on the committee. We will vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment, which returns to the original text of the law, cannot be supported and I do not want it myself and cannot support it. For several years in the past term we have witnessed many irregularities in Ljubljana's pharmacies, as we have also pointed out in the National Assembly. And also the establishment of Ljubljana Pharmacy – the establishment of a Grossist – was illegal at the time, according to the Minister at the time, in contravention of Slovenian legislation, which means that this industry has been carrying out this activity illegally and with a view to earning profits, which unfortunately has not returned to the health system. Even in the future, if this solution were to be reintroduced or enforced now, we can expect the same. Ljubljana's pharmacies have also received numerous Court of Auditors controls, and virtually in every control they have found irregularities, which means that such abuses, which are now being reinstated by the adoption of such an amendment, cannot be allowed back into the system. I am therefore surprised that the other coalition parties, with the exception of Positive Slovenia – because I believe that they are mostly Ljubljana's saints and they are in the interest of preserving this matter – but the other coalition parties should not support such an unprofessional and illegal solution. That is why I hope that we will not support this amendment today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. In explanation of vote, I ask that you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, stick to the explanations of your vote. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u124	Good-bye! I will not support this amendment. We have already made it clear on the Committee on Health and, even today, in the view that the decision of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will also depend on this and also on my decision. I hope that the amendments to Articles 105 and 197 will not be voted on. A few days ago, we were watching a conversation on TV between – I think – the president of the Pharmacy Chamber and the director of the Ljubljana Pharmacy, or someone from the Ljubljana Pharmacy, regarding the opening of the pharmacy in Postojna. Ljubljana's pharmacies work exclusively and only for profit, other pharmacies work in such a way as to cover the resulting loss in smaller areas by creating a profit in a larger area, so that the drugs are more accessible to people. I really don't understand Positive Slovenia, and even less other coalition parties, why they're holding a stand here again for some Jankovic spirit in this legislation. We know who and how the Ljubljana drugstores are connected, we know who led them, we know who dictates them, and we know where the money goes. Here too there is probably a large part of systemic corruption, as it went from Stožice to Jankovic's company, which has already been proven.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u125	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The amendment to Article 105 of the Law has been tabled. There are 81 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 38. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 126th Article and decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 127. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 141. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We vote. 79 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia to 142. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 144. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 162. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 186. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 191. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, SD and DL parliamentary groups to Article 197a. Anybody want to explain their voice? He does. He shall have the floor on behalf of the SDS mag Group. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. This Article,,,,,............................................................................... This amendment is bound by Article 105, which has been voted against our will now, if I say so, and will now be irrelevant, but let me explain again. This article deals with a transitional period for those who are already in violation of the law and are going to be velodrogerists so that they can work for another 1 year or up to 3 years if they are more sophisticated medicinal products or medicines. These two articles are linked, and I therefore predict that we will table an amendment to the third reading because a different amendment to Article 105 has now been adopted. We know that the amendment to Article 197 is now irrelevant, but we will also now vote against it. We're predicting that we're going to table an amendment for the third hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment by 197.a. of the PS, SD and DL parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 33. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, DL and DeSUS to Article 204. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the draft law has proposed that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you go. Procedural proposal, Mr. Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u128	I predict that we will table an amendment to Articles 105 and 197a of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Jursha. If a decision is taken for the third hearing, which I propose to vote on, you will be able to table the amendment by Thursday. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 36. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the decision is not adopted because more than a third of the Members present objected. As the proposed decision has not been adopted, the Council of State will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be drawn up by the Government. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. The 80 present is a Member and Members, with 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December 2013. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of DeSUS and DL to Article 12. Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the National Registry of Insurance and Users of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December 2013. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia to Article 40. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS to Article 90. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS to Article 104. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS to Article 114. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 19 December 2013, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Mr Jožef Horvat's question about the published results of bank stress tests and the government's scenario for the final normalisation of the banking system. You want to explain your voice? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia will support this proposal. I think this is the moment when this honourable assembly must hold a debate on the replies of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek to my question. If a Member asks the President of the Government a question, it means that the President of the Government is accountable to the people because the Member is a representative of the people. I didn't get an answer to any of my questions and questions. So, the people didn't get a response to what the normalisation scenario for the banking system in Slovenia is, which means [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u131	I'm asking you to listen!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a sincere intention to rehabilitate the banking system. We are already used to it if the opposition side asks a question to the President of the Government, then those who are preparing the President's answer will find out what kind of political colours the Member or Member is. Then immediately there is a link to a certain period of time when it is necessary to strike. And the Prime Minister of the Government struck at us, after the opposition, which we composed of the Government during the 2004-2008 mandate period, and showed that the gross external debt increased most during this period. A fully professionally depressed answer and depressed content, given my question. The Prime Minister of the Government also caught up in her own thinking and put Mr Anton Guze first in one party, then in another. There's a rabbit in that bush. First, we need to find out what color someone is, and if ours is — that is, the President’s — then everything is fine with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Whoever it was has nothing to do with the normal functioning of democracy. When it comes to taxpayers’ money — which has already become something abstract, something that is repugnant — the government has to explain what and how it intends to do with it. This is a fundamental rule that allows democratic institutions to function. All that's not is getting back to the state that led us to this point. It's very simple. Let it be money from borrowing or from anything else; what is public money, people need to know what is happening to this money forever. That's why I'm going to support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The proposal concludes that the President of the Government must answer this important question of how he imagines the rehabilitation of banks should be supported, because the people must be given an answer. And he needs to make sure he has a competent government and a president of the government. Based on yesterday's answers, it seems that we have a completely incompetent Prime Minister of the Government who was deaf to every question. The three opposition representatives asked extremely correct questions and one question the Prime Minister was unable to answer. But she was capable of manipulating and lying. Ladies and gentlemen, as my speaker has said, I am not disputing, but if a question is asked, it is necessary to answer on behalf of the people. And this government obviously has no concept and is taking us into the mist, into a mud pond where many will again fish in the mud and deepen the hole in the budget or in public finances and drive this country towards destruction and loss of sovereignty. Because it's about whether the Slovenians will maintain our sovereignty or not to maintain our sovereignty. The government needs to be aware of this responsibility and must be forced to respond here, otherwise they should step down if they are not all able to answer together. That is why it is imperative to hold this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I ask that further explanations be properly discussed. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I will support my colleague Horvath's proposal because I was yesterday – I was a month ago – I was still quiet for two months, I listened to the debate and arguments of the President of the Government. All those responses were of real concern, especially with regard to knowledge of bonds, regarding knowledge of macroeconomics. Above all, with regard to the elements that we also know in the judicial system that people who are infected with some cases, especially the President of the Government, belong to the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, where the former, now frozen president – in systems where they prove that they have jointly drilled a hole into our banking system – and the current defence minister who is suspected of abuse, in particular the fraud of bank employees [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u139	Explain in your own name, don't negate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u140	That is exactly why I support such a proposal. It's about the fact that the President of the Government is infected with this system. She was an ex-supervisor at one of the banks. Secondly, in a party where the former frozen president is involved in a bank hole, he is suspected of major abuses, particularly with the Stožica project. And it is the Minister of Defense, who has somehow participated in the fraud, in preparing himself a business plan for the Stožice project. So she's handicapped right now, and she can't solve this problem as such. And that's the problem. In the debate, we should open up how someone who is infected with this problem can resolve this. So it's part of the problem that came about. I'm not accusing her directly, but the problem is that anyone who participates in, say, the judicial system has to be eliminated. You need to get out of here because you're close. And this also applies to all the Heads of Government, including the later ones and those who have worked so far. She's handicapped, and they can't actually do that. I would like to understand the arguments that it can come out of this, that it will do the right thing and that these abuses in the banking system, as such, can be detected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper, you have an explanation for your vote on your own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u142	Your Honor! I will vote against such a proposal. It is about ever-new and new attempts by the opposition to stop the decision-making, to stop the government's work. The government is working in the right direction, solving all the necessary problems in the area of banking, which has been explained many times by the President of the Government, by the Minister of Finance and by the Governor. The problems of uncovered loans are also being addressed, a number of procedures are under way. All of this can be discussed by the opposition at a new extraordinary meeting, which they have proposed again. However, I cannot help but commenting on the fact that with the President of the Government, there are gentlemen who have had no difficulty in supporting the President of the Government, who has been in a case of corruption in court and who has been convicted of corruption. If the President of the Government has to get out of the decision-making process, then all Members you have in favour of corrupting the convicted President must also be excluded from any decision-making or debate on corruption. Please, I've been listening to you for 1 month with the charges, hold them off, make the debate right, if you want, at the session you requested. However, it is not necessary to discuss again and again the questions already answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Let me re-emphasize what is going on for everyone who responds to the explanations of vote, please do not dispute with each other. The vote would like to explain Mr Franz Puksic. I trust you'll stick to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u144	Of course I will, just like my predecessor, like my colleague. She was the one who encouraged me to explain my voice. I will also support my colleague Horvath's proposal. You know, dear fellow Member, just because you say the government is working in the right direction, we have an additional 90,000 unemployed, we are at 43rd place of the corruption scale, 600% higher daily amount of outstanding liabilities than in 2008, 35% more bankruptcys than last year – this is your card. And it wasn't written by the opposition, the Slovenian People's Party, by the economy. Look at this, and you'll see that you can't wash it off your face.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Mr Zvonk Černač asked Mr Bratušek about the rehabilitation of the banking system. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u146	Nor did the President of the Government answer the question of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, which is why we will support the debate on this non-response in the Group of Members. The President of the Government did not answer the question why the government did not take measures last week to secure and recover funds from those responsible, i.e. those responsible for the bank hole. She did not answer the question why those who did not repay the contested loans did not have frozen assets. Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek did not answer the question why the assets were not frozen to those who granted the loans in question. Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek did not answer the question why the government acted irresponsibly towards its own people and did not take advantage of the possibility of obtaining cheaper resources within the framework of European institutions; why it did not ask for cheaper money under the European Bank Resolution Mechanism, which would allow significantly cheaper resources for recovery and thus relieve future generations. And many other additional questions have not been answered, particularly with regard to the exercise of the responsibility of management, presidents, members of administrations, supervisory boards, members of supervisory boards of banks. Of course, the question arises as to how the government will exercise this responsibility, since the government of Alenka Bratusek is deeply contaminated by a bank hole. It is probably not realistic to expect that Alenka Bratušek, former member of the New KBM Supervisory Board, will be persecuted by Alenka Bratusek as President of the Government, who is responsible for the granting of contested loans. It is unlikely that this government will hunt itself alone and that the government of Alenka Bratušek will persecute the minister who sits in this government, who, by signing it, has enabled Grep to obtain more than 100 million Euros worth of loans for the Contingents, which will never be returned, but is part of the bank hole. Perhaps it is unrealistic to expect the government of Alenka Bratušek to exercise responsibility if the former Director of the Investment Management Sector of the New Ljubljana Bank sits in this government as Minister of Finance. So these are all questions that require answers. Because of the far-reaching robbery of taxpayers in the history of this country, it is a matter of a broader political and broader social consensus to resolve this issue. It must be dealt with seriously, because if we do not do so, and the most responsible is the current ruling policy, the people will have to rehabilitate the banks in 10 years. This nation had already been rehabilitated by banks 20 years ago — in 1993. Since these heads were not cleared at the time because they remained in these banks and collapsed further, they must now be recuperated. All of these are reasons to say that not only is there a need to discuss these answers, but also how and how the government and everyone else will act in the future in order to enforce this responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia has the floor of Mr Brane Golubović.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u148	Nice hello to you all! I even agree with one piece on why we need a session to talk about when, why, how the biggest robbery took place in our banks. At that time, we will discuss whether this was 2004-2008, whether this was 2006 when the NLB did not want to sell to the Belgians and would have avoided at least this hole. I agree to discuss this and we will discuss it at an extraordinary session on the state of the banks on Friday. That's why it seems to me, and it seems to us all in Positive Slovenia that it makes no sense for us to duplicate these things. On Friday, at your request, the request of the SDS, which I personally support, will be discussed, so I cannot vote to discuss the same thing twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else in their own name? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The first one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I find it hard to understand certain situations, and I ask you to help me over and over again, but maybe I'll understand when. Look, when we were the same people in Parliament a few years ago, the position and opposition were different, but at the time all of us, including you, the President, found it difficult to understand that the previous position did not allow a debate on any problem, including those which, in our common opinion at the time, concerned important things that should have been discussed in general. And look at the fraction, and now the thing turns around. And those of you who have said before that it is impossible to understand that there is no general debate about any, but now you are doing the same. Do you know what Einstein said? The biggest definition of insanity is to do things the same way and expect different results. The result will be roughly as you say; otherwise, I am not as critical as the previous government if it has been completely unsuccessful. In a few years, two or three, we'll probably find out again that this government is a failure. And if you have read Gregor Golobič's statement – that is exactly what he is talking about in today's Finances, exactly the same problems. I think it would be fair if we didn't hide anything, that we were trying to contribute to the solutions, which is Parliament's job. And if we have previously read that they are hiding because they did not allow the debate; yes, what does not apply to the same rules for this government. Let's do something different! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly support the proposal for a decision to hold a public debate on the response of the President of the Government for several reasons. For the first time because she did not answer the questions that are important precisely; and for the second time because she was misleading and giving incorrect answers in her answers, which I will explain. First, even if we talk repeatedly about one thing and the same thing, there is nothing wrong with it, because the bank hole is 6 billion if the 10 banks are rated, or much more, if the rest of the banks that have not been rated here are assessed. Which means the taxpayers will pay a lot of money. And this was also discussed in 2012. There were special sessions. Here was the Governor of Banka Slovenije, but there were no accurate data at the time. And the second time, the President of the Government was deceiving. It has also repeated several times, and others have also reiterated the gross external debt and the period 2004-2008, where credit was then leased. They are, but when someone rents loans, they don't rent bad loans, they rent a good loan! However, poor loans came on a day in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012. See the information provided by Banka Slovenije on contested claims over 90 days. When did these loans start? In the period 2009 to 2013. Credits were always leased as good loans, never as bad. You sign a credit agreement, you don't sign a bad loan, you sign a good loan. That's the deception the Prime Minister is talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, would you like to explain your voice? Of course, first it's magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I will also support the debate on this answer or non-response. There's a lot of things that bothers me about this answer. It also bothers me that for some, the most important question is when these credits were created and why they were created. It's just as if I was robbed a year ago, and I'd be wondering when that came about and why he robbed me. I am particularly interested in who robbed me and whether he will be responsible for his actions and what we will do to ensure that this will not happen again. That's what's important to me. So who's responsible for the bank hole, what we're going to do to protect our assets, and what we're going to do to make sure this doesn't happen again. That's a key question for me. It was also from the reply of the President of the Government that one irrationality, which is now in the coalition, was to be understood. We prefer to be more in debt, much more in debt, burdening future generations with high interest on leased loans, keeping our sovereignty and some pride. If pride costs EUR 50 million as a one-per-cent gain on interest for a 5 billion loan, that pride is so damn expensive. Dearly beloved, do we look so sovereign if we have to ask Brussels for every matter? See, for the transfer of bad claims we have to ask Brussels, for each recapitalisation we have to ask Brussels. And you're telling me that our sovereignty will be compromised if we hire a cheaper loan. I think that our sovereignty will be most threatened if we owe ourselves at expensive, high interest rates in the future, thus locking down the future for future generations to repay these impossible loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I will not support this proposal for a simple and simple reason. On Friday, we have an extraordinary session where all those who want to do so will have great opportunities, opportunities to speak on this subject, and to finally adopt positions or conclusions that will be adopted unanimously or by the majority of them on the working body. I am sure that this is all just the beginning of the debate on this issue and that this debate will take place in the future. Not just every session, but every session. There will be talk of yes; in the end I could say and conclude that even parrots will likely learn all the things that we will speak about in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Because I see an interest in explaining the voice in my own name, I'm asking you to apply. The explanation of the vote shall be in its own name, without controversy. The first one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On my own behalf, I will announce that I will support the procedural proposal of my colleague Zvonet Černač. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you, for God's sake, not to interfere with the extraordinary meeting proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the meeting of the National Assembly, which I have proposed, now by my colleague Cernač and probably also by my colleague Pukšič. Because this session that we have proposed, which we have asked the President on behalf of the people, must be prepared by the government. I asked the government or the president what the scenario was. What's the script? Ladies and gentlemen, because of me we can go, we can close the meeting, this meeting can be closed if we talk about banks, I always advocate a closed session. We, the proponents of this session, don't need any populism, we don't need cameras, but people need to know what the script is. Because this scenario is not what we can think of not being willing to rehabilitate banks, that the story will repeat that those who emptied our banks are now somewhere in the background just shivering to be emptied again. The cost of rehabilitation of banks, ladies and gentlemen is about 6 billion. How much did the highway cross cost? Less than the bank's bailout. And if the National Assembly does not deserve this debate on the basis of the material that the government is preparing – the government – then I do not know where we are actually going. Sovereignty?Oh, my God! To some kind of sovereignty, if we've applied for impossible expensive loans. And we have them and they'll be paid by our children's children. What kind of sovereignty is that?Oh, my God! I will vote in favour of the proposal made by my colleague, Mr Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I will vote against this proposal not only for the reasons which have been repeated several times and which can be repeated thousands more times in an extraordinary session, but also because the proposal by the proposer shows that it does not understand at all the way institutions operate in our country. In fact, the proposer asks in his question that the President of the Government imposes a responsibility on the President of the Government or the Government to freeze the assets of those who have received credit, that the President of the Government freezes the assets of those who have granted loans, that the President of the Government is having difficulty persecuting himself, they say, and is having difficulty persecuting his minister. And so on. All of this shows me that the proponents do not understand that we are living, like other countries, in a democratic system where we have law enforcement authorities and ultimately courts. And the law enforcement authorities, the prosecution in particular, can be the only one that requires the freezing of property, and the court decides to do so. There's no way the President of the Government can do that. Nor can the President of the Government prosecute or, as Mr Chernač said, hunt only himself, because the government has very limited powers again, and the specific law enforcement and prosecution authorities are the police and the prosecution, and in the end the only court that can decide who is responsible and decide on responsibility. All the government can do is do what the government does. We have a concrete commitment that the fight against corruption is the priority of this government, this will also be reflected in legislative proposals and already show. The Banking Act, the Bad Bank Act, strict provisions on how bank employees must report possible criminal suspicions. As we see today, law enforcement authorities are again conducting house investigations on this subject. With the Banking Act, we have extended four times the statute of limitations for banking offences. These are changes the government can make. It is therefore pointless to discuss the fact that the government will persecute, freeze property or hunt thieves.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. With regard to the proposal to hold this debate due to the failure of the President of the Government to respond. With her answer and even her previous explanation, I can say that the thought of the most famous philosopher Habermas is confirmed that lies are the immortal soul of communism. Because otherwise, I cannot explain such allegations, such manipulations and such lies as were stated yesterday in the reply of the President of the Government when Member Chernač asked her whether she would be able to exercise responsibility against the member of the NKBM Supervisory Board, Alenka Bratušek. Now in this function, she replied that a member of our party was to sit in that supervisory council. Which is an eminent, eccentric lie, but when there are no real answers, the President of the Government defends himself with lies. No question is meant so directly. This responsibility or investigation will already be carried out by law enforcement authorities if the government allows it. This government is fighting to find out who's standing, who's getting bad loans, who's taking the money. They don't want to give the investigative committee documents to look into credit cards. Who took some money, who approved it. And today you can see in the Fire Report how the President of the Government reacted on the week when they wrote down the loans of the New Bank of Maribor. And that's why we have to drive her to the clearing, these people who slow down and convince our people to find out who robbed them, who robbed their children, who prevented their solid future and their youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u164	Now I don't know if there's anything wrong with my microphone, or if Mrs. Masha Kociper hears wrong. I said that the President of the Government did not answer yesterday the question why those who did not repay the contested loans were not frozen assets. I said she didn't answer the question why she didn't have frozen property. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u165	Mr. Chernač, do you have your own name or Mrs. Massa Kociper?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u166	I ask that you never allow yourself to interrupt me unjustifiably in the middle of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u167	Mr. Blackach, that's for me to decide, not you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u168	After you didn't interrupt Mrs Masha Kociper when she was discussing everything else, she just didn't explain her voice, and not now when she was talking to me. I'm explaining my voice and I'm asking you to give me back the seconds that were taken from me in this. I'm not talking about the government of Alenka Bratušek or the president of the government, I'm asking the question why this didn't happen. At the time when the Slovenian public was aware of the fact that the Slovenian people would have to cover loans from their pockets to those who had been leased in 100 million amounts for insurance purposes, this Government did not accept everything else, in cooperation with the other institutions, which it would have been necessary to keep this price as low as possible. If you have some problems with us discussing this at the end of this week and then discussing again at the end of January when we discuss not answering this question, it should not be my view that these problems should be, since we could already hear what will be done by the end of January by the end of this period. I got one bet again. Yesterday, I was betting that something similar was going to happen today, what was going on with these marks, that the little dimples would be hunting, that something similar would happen, like when we had the National Assembly's treatment of the banking system, for the first time, and when we had the interpellation of the finance minister, for the second time. Not to smile at these things, it's not a serious matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Černač, given your warning, let me tell you that there was a point and now a vote on your proposal, which is why I did not stop Mrs Kociper from mentioning your name, because she mentioned your debate and your proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Ms Alenka Bratušek, to Mr Franz Puksic's question on the secrecy and non-transparentness of the measures taken by the Government. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much again. In fact, I cannot believe that for the third time we could reject the proposal that the President of the Government further answer the questions raised. We did not ask the President of the government yesterday by the opposition, and all 3 opposition parties had roughly the same questions as in 2004. We didn't ask her if she had written off her credit in the supervisory board, we didn't ask her that question. We asked her what she would do today and now for the Slovenian public, for this nation that is now leading the government. When she performed in front of the National Assembly, she said that things would get better and different. In order for the economy to flourish, unemployment will decline and there will be no more social problems. That is why we asked her, esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, also by the Slovenian People's Party, why she does not yet discover transfers, so do not allow the transfers of bad loans to the so-called "bad bank" to be detected and why this remains secret. We asked her – citizens and citizens should know who will cover this hole and recapitalisation – who is to blame. We asked her why the minister hired three-year bonds with only one negotiator. Why he did so on the phone, called a friend, and agreed to an interest rate, at the expense of the taxpayers. Why did he do that? The Prime Minister of the Government has replied that it is also a secret in the time of our government. It is true that matters are handled in secret, but not in secret, but do not call a friend of M.K. or K.M. or anyone like him to give him credit and agree on an interest rate with him. The interest rate is 7.8% if compared to 10-year bonds. She's never had such a precious Slovenia. And we asked her, for God's sake, when the law enforcement authorities jumped into the air when the KPK jumped into the air and said we had enough together, why don't you give us a chance to look at the corrupt acts in the banks because there are the same people in the same places who are blocking it. I hope we'll give her a chance to respond to this, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening an application for reasons on my own behalf. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. He's quitting. The next is Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I see that some factions of Positive Slovenia are giving up, but I won't. You know, the government's response was so misleading and nothing that it was far from clear that it was trying to deceive people, that it was moving and it did not want to answer clearly what had happened in our banking system, what method the government had chosen, how it would remedy it. Look, keep repeating when credits started to go up. At that time, Mr Kramar, Director of the Ljubljana Bank, was legally awarded a million-dollar prize. Do you think then the government would know that there are so many loans that I would hope that Kramar himself would take the millionth prize back then? He was deceiving the public and deceiving the government at the time. Mr Kramar was the same party as then Mrs Bratušek – LDS. She was a city councillor in Kranj, and he was a member of LDS. And LDS put Kramar up. This is the same political option sitting here today in the same seats. We must make it very clear that they are defending themselves — including the President — and defending those parties who are heavily financed from this money. This is now clear with your vote. Those who have received these loans are funded by these customers and are therefore supported by them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal to hold a general debate on the response of the President of the Government, because there really was no response. With Slovenia in debt of a billion and a half at 4.85% of the interest rate, it is either a complete fiasco or it is deliberately a bad debt. First, it needs not only an answer, but a full investigation of the relevant authorities, certainly the Court of Auditors and someone else. We are, because we are in charge of almost 5% of the interest rate, according to the President of the Government, more sovereign. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we are less sovereign. This sovereignty is cut short by those who lend us money at such interest rates. And we want to know who they are. Whom do we actually lose our sovereignty from? If 5 % is the interest rate and if, say, Croatia owes 4 % of the interest rate, if Spain is 2 % of the interest rate, why should I be 5 % of the interest rate? Why don't we go to the open market, why do we owe ourselves to some people, some companies that might come to Zupančičeva or Gregorčičeva, and that's a bilateral answer? And that's what the President of the Government has to report. Who made the deal? Why, at such an interest rate, and is Slovenia in fact unable to repay at a lower rate? What is the financial status of Slovenia today? What will we do in a month or two when it is likely that we will have to repay ourselves again because next year we will pay 3 billion debts or 1 billion interest? These are questions that the President of the Government must answer precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr Pukšič, please, in my own name I must give you my word if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u176	You can't give me that if, of course, you decide for yourself, but that's what the rules of procedure say. That's why you gave me your word. As far as the comment by Positive Slovenia, the former Minister of Economic Affairs, is concerned, I will not repeat it, but also because of such acts, it is a bank hole that he carried out. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mrs Alenka Bratušek answered something completely different yesterday than what was asked. When she was still in the opposition, Mrs Alenka Bratušek asked the then coalition to reveal, however, who were the ones who received the loans they did not repay and who received them in a corrupt way, in a way that was not secured by their loans. At that time, at her request, we responded, including by Positive Slovenia, by means of the Bad Bank Act. The Bad Bank Act had written all of this down, but when we did, there was so much pressure that the government, which was then, did not stand. Apparently because of some hidden lobbying and internal pressure. Today, we read in the newspaper that State's Attorney Jože Kozina said: Inside the banking fortress of the New Ljubljana Bank are still people who are not interested in investigating matters as soon as possible. In the Slovenian People’s Party, we asked in the name of the people who elected us: Why does he not allow and do nothing to investigate this? Why would the minister be able to rent loans with such a large interest rate that people would have to pay? On these issues, it is essential that we obtain agreements.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Here you go. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u178	Madam Vice-President, what you have done is completely contrary to the rules of procedure. The president of our party, Franci Bogovich, held his hand up. You looked and you saw that he was holding his hand up. He probably didn't hold his hand up to ask if I could use the bathroom, but because he wanted to explain his voice. And he has that right!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u179	Dear Mr Puksic, I believe you did not want to perform as you did. But let me tell you, when we moved to the vote, the red tape, which shows the voting phase, has already begun. And that's when I saw Mr. Bogovich raise his hand. Please, we're moving on to work. On the following questions, I ask you politely if you're all applying for an application that no one will have the feeling that I've overlooked it. The first one raised the hand of Mr Franci Bogovic, followed by Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u180	Madam Vice President, I will not scream in the National Assembly. However, I want to make it very clear to you that you are monitoring the vote if you are holding the meeting. I held my hand at least 10 seconds before Mr Puksic finished. I don't want to protest. But I do not allow you to say that I raised my hand after the vote began. If you are holding a meeting, follow up because you know that these are the points where Members want to explain their votes. Such maneuvers are not necessary, and we are not all honored.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Like I said before, I really didn't notice your hand. But I promise you, we'll report an explanation every time. I want to cut back a lot of times when I only see one raised hand. Then we'll go into this longer process. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you, Vice President. This time you consciously prevented explanations of voice, for I, too, cried out that it was an explanation of vote. And if you can't see, but you're deaf, so far you haven't been. And you knowingly broke it. But since you don't respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you can't run this session at the same time. And I ask you to take a removal measure from the sitting and that the other chairman is to chair the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I will try to keep the meeting in accordance with the rules of procedure. I respectfully ask all Members and Members of Parliament, in their explanations of vote, to apply for the application, in the future it will be exclusively so. Mr. Pukšič, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u184	Vice President, I apologize for the raised voice, but you produced it for the seat of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly is here, including other colleagues and colleagues, to be right and be honest for once about what he meant. The aim was to speak before the vote. Vice-President, you deliberately prevented this from happening because you are currently holding a meeting of the National Assembly, explaining the Rules of Procedure, but I expect it to be as it says. It is not up to you to make a shorter procedure or a longer application procedure; it is only up to you that Members and Members have this option – in what way, you decide, it is up to you. However, you must give Members and Members an opportunity, and you have prevented that. Vice President, you don't have that right. I apologized for the raised voice. I hope, Vice President, you will correct the mistake. From where you are, you have this opportunity to lift the vote, give the vote a chance and let us vote again. I think that's the most correct thing you can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. On this occasion, I would like to make a public apology to Mr Franz Bogovic for seeing his hand raised too late. But I must say that with all of you, colleagues and colleagues, I understand very well and correctly as your fellow Member. But I am not satisfied with the tone of voice that Mr Franci Pukšič had and I accept the apology. We're moving to the next point. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Defence Minister Roman Jakič to Mrs Sonja Ramšak's question on the forecasting procedure. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm opening the application. Ms Sonja Ramšak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the proposal to hold a broader debate. While the Minister of Defence is in another position, acting as Director of Tivoli Institute, he is somehow in the predictive process with regard to the signing of the disputed contract for the Sport Centre of Stožice, thereby allowing the private company GREP to benefit unlawfully. As we know, this company is already bankrupt and a 100 million-dollar loan will probably never be repaid. The question referred to his current role as Minister of Defence. If a criminal procedure has been introduced or some investigation has already been carried out in the pre-trial procedure, which could also affect the work of the Minister himself or also the disclosure of certain confidential or confidential data, we propose, of course, that this debate be held. Although the Minister of Defence spoke about the use of protected communication, telecommunications means in his work, we all know very well if predictive or criminal procedures are in place that these data are not protected. But they're protected so others can't hear them. However, by order of the investigating judge or courts, such information shall be available for criminal proceedings. For this reason, we have also called on the Minister to resign on his own and thus allow for an objective investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senko Plitčanič to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the supervision of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with the illegal appointment of the Director-General of the High Prosecutor's Office. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I hope it goes without interrupting. I requested a debate on the response of the Minister of Justice. It was a question of the unlawful appointment of the Director of the State Attorney's Office, which was carried out in cooperation with the Council of Justice, by the Attorney-General, Mr Fischer. The reason was that this appointment was made 1 day before the appointment of the last government of Janshea. As a minister at the time, I thought it was an illegal appointment, so we removed that appointment from the government. Mr. Skrlec complained to the Administrative Court and – look out! – The Administrative Court found that the Attorney General had abused the law, I repeat, the Attorney General had abused the law. That is why, in my role as Minister, including the Prosecutor's Office, I decided then to exercise control over this matter. The Attorney General was full of words in the media about the political pressure I put on him, and he rejected this control, which he has by law. Therefore, on 13 March of this year, the Government adopted a decision to carry out this control. The current government, however, overturned this decision about 10 days ago. This means that there will be no supervision of the work of the Attorney General in this matter or in any other case. While the Minister spoke yesterday about preparing to oversee the work of the Attorney General, we will see if he will or will not. Let me also remind you of another thing that is important when voting on this procedural proposal for a debate. There is increasing information that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office with Mr Fisher is headed, if I may say in the language of the previous system, by some malicious cell in this country that is preparing some things that do not have a legal basis; in particular, I stress that they do not have a legal basis. First, you well recall writing to the media about how, during the appointment, when we voted on Mr Jankovic as prime minister, and then, during the second vote, he used the prosecutor's data and, through the former President of the State, Mr Kučan and Mr Türk, he would influence those decisions. Think of another case. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] I'll ask you to explain your vote on my behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u190	There are two other important reasons why oversight is needed or why a debate in the National Assembly should be held on this subject. I didn't agree to believe anonymously, but the first anonymous Fishergate turned out to be completely accurate. I'm not going into the contents of this anonymity, but she was talking about a financial investigation against our client's president. Subsequent findings and prosecution reports have shown this to be true. Let me remind you of another anonymity. That is also why I believe other anonyms more, because the first one has proved to be accurate and has put an important point in deciding on this issue. This anonymous woman speaks of the so-called "Maneken" action, which takes place at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. In practice, this means that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office has adopted a political decision to attack the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. This is what this document says we should start investigating in one way or another. As they wrote in anonymity – and this is important for decision-making on this issue – "is an apology, I apologize, to the public and Members of Parliament a harmless fool" as it says in anonymous language, "who does not want to use the left political option". And if this is the reason that the Supreme Public Prosecutor is eventually preparing actions against the President of the State, this would be an alarm at least for the party from which he comes. That is why I expect support in deciding on this matter, in particular from those who are politically members of its camp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Jeraj will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on the positive formation of the national consciousness in the educational process. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I can only see one hand. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. In the second article of the Basic School Act, one of the aims is to develop awareness of nationality and national identity, behaviour about the history of Slovenians, their cultural, natural heritage and to promote civic responsibility. That is why I asked Mr Pikal, Minister of Education, what measures has the Government taken, what guidelines for schools to achieve this objective? The Minister gave me a number of measures, and I am surprised that in recent months or in the last year we have witnessed different things for my taste, inappropriate events in primary schools. Recently, on November 29th, which was a holiday in another system, a teacher in a uniform came to one of the primary schools, somewhere even with a gun. That's not checked, so I don't know, but in uniform, I'm sure. The schoolgirls dress up as pioneers and explain to them how good the system was. In the subject of Ethics, the teacher explains to the students how important Tito, who was a German Bild, was to be remembered as one of the top ten criminals in the world. They are also taking them to the exhibition about Titus, which is now in Ljubljana. At the same time, I told the Minister that the author of the exhibition did not publicly declare himself to be the author, but the author is anonymous for once, so we cannot even verify the quality. We estimate that it is not appropriate to take children to such an exhibition, not to mention that a fourth-class student writes that she lives in Yugoslavia. We, the Government or through the project Rastim with the book, first donated 20,000 books of Mr Vojnović-Yugoslavija, my country to the students of the first high school years. I'm not going to go into the artistic part of the book, but I do appreciate that the book was imposed on students, because in libraries we find it as a novel for adults and also rent it to adults mostly. The minister could check that out, and he couldn't even tell me what profession she decided that this book had won the Rastim project with a book like a youth novel. In the library, the profession decided that this was a novel for adults, and at the Ministry of Culture and in cooperation with the Ministry of Education decided that this was a youth novel. In short, the minister did not tell me whether or not he would give any instructions in this regard, because all these events bear witness that there is obviously some direction, because we have recently witnessed the rise of Yugoslav [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with Mr Dragutin Mate's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to Mr Dragutin Mate's question on the affair of driving licences. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. So we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Defence, Roman Jakič, to Mr Franz Breznik's question on Slovenian Army uniforms. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I see two wishes. The first shall have the floor on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Franz Breznik, then on behalf of the SD Group, Dr Ljubica Jelusič. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that! In my question to the Minister of Defence, I wanted to know and clarify the discriminatory behaviour of Minister Jakič when he passed his powers – that the contract signed by the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Dobren Bozič, with one of the societies operating in public for the defence of the homeland, was the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence – that he did not lend them or donate old uniforms for the celebration event that took place in Kočevsky River in memory of the event in the previous 1990, on December 17th, just before the plebiscite decision of the Slovenes and Slovenek gathered a small piece about the new Territorial Defence, approx. 500 people who have shown that the Slovenians are serious about the decision, especially we are serious about the military's independence path; especially that we are also militarily prepared to defend our independence with life and death. This is an extremely important event in independence or in the history of the Slovenian people. The Minister replied to my question why he did not donate, but that he could not, as a matter of fact, be the Slovenian Army in a poor material condition, that he could not do so. I've even worked in logistics myself once, and I believe that old uniforms that don't represent anything can't be that gold reserve, as he put it, could have shown good will by borrowing them for this event. He didn't answer that either. Above all, it points to what I repeat: the Minister of Defence, Roman Jakič, is in fact not a minister, but a pure provocation of this government. Someone who, from the very beginning, has been demeaning this system, who, at a symbolic level, has been abusing self - control, who today says that he was then opposed to just one amendment, which is a pure lie, which is a pure lie. We have a whole series of magnetograms where it says that we don't need the Slovenian Armed Forces at all, despite having signed the so-called declaration for peace, where it was clearly defined that we should wait for the Yugoslav Army with, I don't know, pioneer caps or white flag. This is what I want to discuss. And I think it's necessary that such people have nothing to look for in such a situation. In the first part of the question, which is most important, why do they discriminate against one of the societies which is in public interest for the country. What is even more important is why in the Slovenian Army he intervened in the so-called competences of the Chief of Staff, in particular he did not respect the subordination and one eldership, which is the basis for the functioning of the Slovenian Army in the internal sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the decision to hold a debate on the response of Defence Minister Roman Jakič to the just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-explanatory question. We estimate that the Minister of Defence correctly explained that he approved those logistics funds that he could approve for the celebration in Kočevska Rijeka, namely the performance of the Slovenian Army Orchestra and the use of the plato in Kočevska River, which is owned by the Ministry of Defence. However, he could not approve the use of military uniforms, which, for the first time, are lacking, so there are very few. We know that volunteers in military service are already trained in worn, washed uniforms. Secondly, it was not possible to approve this because for at least 3 years none of its predecessors had been able to approve the issue of uniforms. Thirdly, it was not possible to approve this because the Ministry of Defence has a special rule on the wearing of uniforms which specifies exactly how and under what conditions uniforms in the Slovenian Army that have not yet been cancelled can be applied and for which groups these uniforms can be made available at all. I think that these documents that exist within the Ministry of Defence should be taken into account, and that the uniforms that have been discussed are not owned by the Slovenian Armed Forces, but are the responsibility of the Directorate of Logistics within the administrative department of the Ministry of Defence, where the disinvestment sector knows exactly where and how and under what conditions these uniforms are still being used, especially in the future for the purposes of the strategic reserve. I also assess our Group of Members that this was the fundamental purpose of the question raised by the Member States. The Minister responded accordingly to this part. However, it continued, in particular in the part concerning the explanation of why the procedural proposal has been put forward by a number of words and attacks which certainly do not fall within the basic content of this question. I think that it would be inappropriate to discuss history and what territorial defences have earned Slovenia in relation to the first part of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening the application. You have, Mr. Franz Breznik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u198	Look, we live in the 21st century. There are electronic means, there are media, and there is history. I would like you to warn Dr. Ljubico Jelusic to indicate which things I mentioned do not hold up, are the historical inaccuracies that you are talking about. What kind of stuff? Are all the magnetograms I was talking about about Minister Jakic? Or that the leadership of the territorial defence in 1990, more precisely on April 16, collapsed and handed over weapons to the then Yugoslav army and thus violated, essentially collapsed in terms of when we needed these weapons, at the latest. Is that not true, or is that not true? On this basis, the Territorial Defence, as such, reorganised, consolidated and took place before the war in part in the new composition. Isn't that true, or did I spread historical untruths here? If I am, I apologize; but if I am not, I beg you to apologize. I'd like you to point that out. And we can look into this and clear these things up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that Mr Breznik and Dr Yelušič should be clarified together outside the regular meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to an explanation of vote. The first one has the word mag. Stanko Stepichnik. He's quitting. Mr. Borut Ambrožič, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! I can't support my colleague Beznik's proposal for a simple reason. If I understand the dictates of the question correctly, today's claim may be unintelligible and incorrect when it says that the Minister has not answered, at least in that part of the question why he has not given or possibly borrowed the uniform. I suppose if we go to look at the magnetic record of yesterday's questions, it was written that the Minister replied that in obtaining information from his subordinates, he came to the reality that, given the role of the said association, which he sent to the defence ministry, where they wanted 500 pieces of complete uniforms and also shoes or shoes, there is no one in the warehouses. Well, we couldn't provide the complete uniforms required. Therefore, I am personally satisfied with the Minister of Defence's presentation and cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u202	Look, I repeat, we live in the 21st century, we have a whole range of electronic means, and you can also turn on the cameras that monitored. If Ambrožič's colleague has not been in the hall or hears poorly, I repeat. The minister made it clear yesterday, he said, the associates gave me information on how many uniforms he was, asked him to decide. True, he said that as many uniforms as the association demanded, he could not surrender. He decided not to give one. He said he wouldn't give one and he won't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u203	Beznik, this is already a debate outside. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u204	I would ask you to remind him that that was true and to clarify this and that he did not listen to him on a procedural basis. He was just spreading a lie by saying he didn't have any uniforms. So it's contradictory by the coalition between Dr. Jelusic and Ambrožić. She says that he has made it clear; but he speaks, saying that he does not have any uniform. So we find an eccentric lie that spreads in the National Assembly. I have to react to this, and this is what I am also proposing that you, as chairman, should warn them and remind them that before the public, we cannot deceive the public before the cameras of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. On the basis of your re-procedural proposal, I suggest you speak to Mr Ambrožić again. I don't want to laugh. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Franz Breznik, on the basis of your procedural proposal, I propose that you, Dr Ljubica Jelusič and Mr Borut Ambrožič – I apologize for smiling, but not deliberately to you. But I understand your dissatisfaction if he responds if some things were not as you know things. Please, if you don't mind, let's go back to the explanations of vote if anyone else has their own name to continue the meeting. I'm asking politely for understanding. Who else wants to explain in their own name? I'm opening the application. The first one has the word Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I should say that I will not support the decision on this subject, because I have made it very clear that the Minister has answered correctly, in the first and second parts of the question raised, what the proposaler wanted to know. In the third part, when it was time to clarify its procedural proposal, when the proposer expanded the contents of his question, the Minister could no longer answer that question. The subject matter of who was where he was in 1990, according to the content of the question raised, which the honourable proposer wanted to know, was not the case. I therefore think that if the applicant would like to discuss this, it is best that he raises a new question. Personally, however, I do not intend to discuss with him what has ever happened in our history, because there is a need to know what professional suggestions are. Here we are discussing the political problem of what Minister Jakič has said and how much more should be added in his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The following has the floor to explain the vote in his own name, Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I will support this debate myself, because I think it is extremely important to ask myself why the representative of the current authorities actually opposed the symbolic event and the important political event – December 17th, when the Slovenian army was suffocating in the Kočevska River. This is the source of our statehood. And we must honor this source of statehood, mark it, because the Honourable Company of the Slovenian Army is present at many events that are not so important. I don't mind it myself, but for some society to be, an organization that wants to put this extra emphasis on being rejected in this way, but I didn't think so. I understand from Minister Jakič in his personal work that he wants to be in charge of himself, that today he opposes what he opposed in 1990 when he was against the Slovenian army. In that sense, I understand it by the human side. However, he is a representative of the Slovenian State and should comply with the tradition and obligations of this department and be today in order to ensure that such an important event on the way to Slovenian statehood is properly marked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the last proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitčanič, to Mrs Sonja Ramšak's question on renting business premises for the functioning of state prosecutors. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We will support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the case of rental of premises for the functioning of the District Attorneys' Offices, the State acts as a poor host, it is said to be irrational. In fact, it will spend €60 million in 10 years for the two District State Prosecutors' Offices, in Celje and Ljubljana, which means that 25 16 schoolchildren or 15 schools could build for this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I guess not. That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I welcome you and thank you for your cooperation!
