ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Dragutin Mate and Dr László Göncz. I invited the representative of the Council of State to the meeting on agendas 1 and 2 and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology in the margins of mags. Mr Stanka Stepišnika at the 3rd point, Minister of Health at the 4th point of Tomaž Gantar's resignation and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 28 November 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on a decision to be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 73rd meeting on 28 November 2013 that the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Finances [[EPA 1612-VI]] it is subject to an emergency procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we therefore first turn to the request of the Group of Members and Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to amend the Law on Public Finance [[EPA 1612-VI]] it is subject to an emergency procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants to request Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! It is again Friday and again a fatal decision will take place in the financial area on Friday afternoon. First, on September 6th, a billion-dollar guarantee for two tycoon banks, on September 13th was the discharge of Mr Širclj from DUTB, and today the coalition has come before us with a novel of the Public Finance Act, with which no one will see any document on this matter in the National Assembly. There will be no amounts or purposes – virtually nothing. Everything will take place without programmes, without financial plans, without definitions, without what is strategic and what is not strategic. Everything will go under the banking secrecy clause. I would like to remind you that this year we have amended all the key documents from the banking area, from the financial area, from the budgetary area. You have made a balance for this year, which is the best, you have adopted the 2014 and 2015 budgets, which are the best, you have passed the law on the implementation of the budget, which is the best. We have already amended the Banking Act, which would regulate all these matters, and now you are coming after all these stories, after all these one-time issues, with the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which interferes with everything I have counted, both in the 2013 balance sheet, in the 2013 budget implementation law, in the 2014 and 2015 budgets and so on. You're going to go through all these files with this. There is no other explanation for this than the fact that the hunt is open, that the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and the Governor will decide everything and strip us naked. Even when the President of the National Assembly was the leader of the Social Democrats Group, he spoke about the theft of the century. He also spoke, if you will remember, of treason, at a time when there was a government property management programme in the framework of the Slovenian State Holding. Here we have no programme or scenario, nothing, and it is probably higher amounts than in the state holding company as regards the impact on the country and the state budget. I must say that when you propose such a law, you only ensure that you work in the field of banks differently than other foreign banks in the Republic of Slovenia. If they hold the media statements, they meet the stress test criteria of only three foreign banks from these banks that have fallen under stress tests, both domestic and foreign. The domestic banks that went into this programme do not meet the criteria. By proposing this Public Finance Act, you only ensure that the way domestic banks operate will still not meet the stress test criteria – because you provide as much technology as it has been in these banks and has proved to be extremely poor. We have a bad bank law, which you are also suspending by this amendment of the law and making it impossible to do exactly what was meant by the bad bank law – to ensure quality management of state finances and other assets. Dearly respected, the proposal to deal with this law in an urgent way will not be supported, because what you have submitted this year to the National Assembly and what you have adopted only means that bad work in the banking field and in the management of other state assets will continue and that we will continue to be under the constant burden of charging budgetary resources into the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request, so we are moving on to a decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, that proposal for a law will be considered by the assembly on an urgent basis, as the 5th item of the agenda. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and amended. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's a re-decision on the real estate tax. The State Council is at its fourth extraordinary session of 20. 11. 2013 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Property Tax Act. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Ozimić.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word and the opportunity to explain our proposal for re-decision in the National Assembly on the Real Estate Tax Act, which, in the opinion of the Council of State and also in the opinion of the municipalities and the interest group of local interests, is crucial for this level of local self-government, i.e. for the municipalities. I will try to sum up these arguments, even though you have received materials and explanations. This can be summed up in some way in 11 aspects of this law, which we generally estimate is bad and harmful for local communities, that is, for the congregations. The first point and the first observation is a lack of respect for the comments made and the warnings given to the working bodies of the State Council in the context of public debate and the subsequent legislative procedure. Huge comments and dilemmas were raised. Practically none of them have been taken into account in the legislative process. The second observation is that it is inappropriate to adopt law by emergency procedure as an intervention law. This is a system law for the municipalities, because it has a strong influence on their financing, their autonomy and financial independence. As such, the drafting of the law is also inconsistent with the Law on Local Self-Government, since it was adopted without the appropriate participation of the municipalities, which should be involved in this, for them a key law. Also unacceptable is the duality of the law in terms of the distribution of the funds raised between 50 and 50. Under this law, these funds are also granted the nature of the decommissioned funds to the municipalities and no longer their own resources, which is inconsistent with the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The following is a reduction of the net effect of this tax. At least during the transitional period, the municipalities will acquire funds in the amount of the compensation collected, but on the other hand they will increase their burden-sharing expenditure, which they have not had so far, i.e. their property tax. Some nonsense is also included in this connection: taxation of buildings for public use and burden on public service providers. We will burden kindergartens, schools and all these things with funds that will go from municipal budgets – whether the municipalities will have to provide these additional funds or whether the quality of activities in these municipalities will decline due to lack of funding. It seems inappropriate to assess the situation and consequences in which this law will intervene in its entirety, both in the area of the situation of natural persons and in the area of the situation of legal persons. One and the other will be burdened with this tax — fairly unfair and, in some cases, completely pointless, without feeling the state in which they are. In this state, they are now taxed. Finally, as a basis, this general market value, which will be the basis for determining this tax, is completely inappropriate. This veto also gives us the opportunity to reconsider and not enforce the law after your decision because of poor solutions and harmful consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you for explaining your request. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 74th emergency meeting. 11. 2013 addressed the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Real Estate Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly and adopted by the National Assembly at its 47th extraordinary session 15. 11. 2013 We have received the following material: the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the State Council, as we have heard today, explained the reasons why the State Council has made a request for a re-decision on the property tax. The Legislative and Legal Service had no comments, and after a short discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of the members, 10 for and 6 against: The Real Estate Tax Act is appropriate. Similarly, we recommend that the National Assembly be re-voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you, too. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law. Dr. Urosh Chufer, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, it is again decided on the property tax, which the State Council has rejected as inappropriate with a veto. With regard to the findings of the State Council, it is necessary to clarify that, due to all the problems of the current tax system, among which the greatest problem is certainly the arbitral and imprudent determination of the tax base or the amount of the tax, a decision has been taken to replace the regime with a single, modern system of property tax. Regardless of the urgency of the law, it is in principle agreed and a new system solution has been prepared for a long time. This is indeed introduced during the economic and budgetary crisis, but with a view to regulating the taxation of real estate in the long term, the tax has been assessed as the least harmful tax measure to increase tax revenues. Such a solution was also considered the most appropriate because the data show that the current level of property taxation in Slovenia is relatively low. Therefore, such a solution is also assessed in the short term as the most appropriate when crisis taxes and similar elements may be introduced. The law strengthens equal treatment of the debtors and fairness. The real estate tax is more taxed on those with larger real estate assets, thus redistributing the burden of public duties to the debtors not only by the criterion of income and consumption, but also by the criterion of property. This increases the undeniable fairness of the tax system and also increases fairness as a result of the imposition of a single tax assessment, including due to clearly defined tax bases and tax rates, and from the point of view that all real estates are taxed. In the preparation of the law, all aspects of the impact of the tax on individuals and on different groups of activities were very widely examined and the objective of moderate taxation was pursued. On the basis of all the above, the Government considers that the Real Estate Tax Act constitutes a specific contribution to the modernisation of the tax system in Slovenia in terms of greater fairness and transparency, and therefore proposes that the National Assembly approve it in its re-decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you, too. I give the floor below to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Despite the nature of the procedure, the State Assembly held a broad discussion on the property tax. In plenary only, this debate lasted all night and all afternoon through explanations of vote. In doing so, I should say that the predecessor of this debate was a rich debate on the parent working body, and the coalition partners have also dedicated months of comprehensive coalition coordination to the Real Estate Tax Act. The tax was coordinated with a number of other stakeholders, such as local communities, interest organisations of farmers, economies and also representatives of other interests concerned by taxation. By rejecting the claim that there was not sufficient public debate in the real estate tax process. The whole treatment of this law was not least initiated before the summer with a public debate and a number of comments, some of which were also taken into account in the procedure. We have also stressed, when considering the law, that we cannot be fully satisfied with all the solutions to the law. We understand, however, that Slovenia is in a vulnerable situation and that, for a number of fiscal reasons, as well as the systemic nature of the tax, this is a difficult decision to make. We stress that, on the scale and burden of taxation, Slovenian real estate tax will still remain relatively lower than the average of the countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. If the scope of taxation here is 1%, the average of the OECD countries is 1.7%. In this respect, we have always stressed that the decision against property tax would also be difficult from the point of view of alternatives. The calculations show that, to the same extent, the increase in other taxes, such as value added tax, the introduction of a specific crisis tax or on the other hand, for example, a reduction in public consumption, including through a reduction in the salaries of public servants or a reduction in the volume of social transfers, would be greater and worse in its impact on the negative fall in gross domestic product than the imposition of a property tax. These calculations clearly show that the property tax has far the least negative impact on the recovery in Slovenia. In doing so, we would like to point out that, with the measures taken, this government, as one of the pillars of the budgetary policy for the next two years, has already created a significant change in the climate of the international economic environment towards Slovenia through the adoption of budgetary policy and a decisive, discreet debt. Some of you would like to refer to the drop in expected returns on Slovenia's three-year bonds, which have reached a level of 3% this week, but we stress that this would not be possible if the Government did not decide that, with additional borrowing only one day after the vote of the Secretary-General, it would be possible to obtain additional resources on the safe side, and that with moderate optimism we can also expect a new Friday, Friday, 13 December, and we hope that the National Assembly will gather the necessary political power to create the necessary legal basis for rapid intervention to strengthen the capital adequacy of banks by Friday. Since the property tax is not an isolated project, but is part of a broader whole, we will also give it support today for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The state world is 21. 11. 2013 has notified that it requires the National Assembly to decide again on the Real Estate Tax Act. As there are no new views, opinions or facts that have not been included and taken into account in the previous decision on this law, we will vote in the Civil Gazette in the same way as we did a few days ago. In doing so, I should like to highlight a few other reasons for the decision taken at that time and at the present time. Real estate taxation is one of the oldest taxes and is common in the vast part of Europe. It's practically all over the country. In some, it represents a higher, lower share of the total tax burden in others. The property tax will replace the four existing taxes while ensuring greater transparency and introduce the same rules for everyone in the whole of Slovenia. We have been introducing real estate tax in Slovenia for a decade. In the Civil Gazette, too, we would be much more pleased to introduce it in times when the introduction of a system-wide real estate tax would allow us to reduce too much tax work at the same time, but unfortunately this opportunity has been delayed in the past. Taxes have clear fiscal effects, but at the same time we must not ignore other non-fiscal effects. The new way of taxation also seeks to increase the exploitation of these, which should also be reflected in the real estate market in the form of greater availability of real estate, especially for young people. During the transitional period, municipalities will be granted the same amount of compensation as they collected for 2012 as compensation for the use of building land. After a transitional period, the tax revenue will be divided between municipalities and the country. It should also be noted that the debtors will have available legal remedies to challenge the indications in the tax assessment decision, both the data concerning the debtor and the general market value. We have also received a number of examples of estimates of values that are, to say the least, strange. Neighbouring plots with similar objects and evaluation very different. In practice, however, it is common among all that the problem is in the building parameters and not in the very part of the evaluation. We are aware of this, and we have therefore insisted in the National Gazette that citizens be informed in advance of the value of the tax, and that the procedures for regulating this for citizens will be as simple as possible. During and after the adoption of the law, some concerns arose in the public. We are closely monitoring them in the Civil Gazette and will make every effort to ensure that they are properly addressed and disposed of as far as possible. The time for such concerns and anomalies to be resolved is not exactly in abundance, but in serious work, for which the Government has also established a special working group, is sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, distinguished president, colleague and colleague, distinguished representative of the Council of State! In the introduction, let me say that I thank the Council of State for its convincing majority of 27 to 2, giving the National Assembly the opportunity to once again take a decision and think soberly about the decision that has been taken recently. It is more than obvious that in the State Council, where saints come from a range of local interests and also from different groups in society, there are significantly more people walking, monitoring the response, and joining more than 80,000 people who have signed a petition against this tax. From this place, also sincere thanks to those who have signed this petition and expressed an active citizenship attitude when, in such an inappropriate manner, by emergency procedure, such an unfair tax is accepted in the National Assembly. I believe that this number will be even greater when the calculations arrive on the day and when people will also see what it really means. There's been a lot of manipulation around these numbers. Today we received numbers in one of Slovenia's journals, that is to say in Ljubljana: in apartments with 88 to 242 euros, in residential houses with 150 square metres from 195 to 522 euros, in restaurants with 270 to 378; in Koper, in Koper Municipality with 33 euros to 203 euros, in residential houses with 121 to 385. The same is true of other municipalities, where, for example, it is very interesting to see what is happening at the end of the new town with the buildings, which move from €9 to €164 of these taxes. You are talking about equality, justice, moderation, and most of this tax is also accepted and confirmed by you. I think that all these principles are more than being violated, that this is clear, and that the coalition and the government are doing a great deal of stupidity by accepting this tax, which will also be shown after this law is doubtless also heard by the Constitutional Court, and I believe that it will experience in some respects a serious warning or a request for correction. Initiatives to assess constitutionality appear from day to day to more who will submit them. They are seriously warning all of us to listen to these initiatives. Today I have also sent a letter to all my colleagues and colleagues in which I want this correctional exam to be done and this law adopted in a normal European way, as we need to discuss it, that the debate is ongoing, that all the consequences are simulated, and that this law is adopted by the end of next year and enforced. Unfortunately, the majority in the National Assembly are determined to do something else, not because there would be no other options, but because they have decided that this is the right way to fill a hole in the state budget. It's a typical crisis tax. More than 200 million are expected to be seized for the state budget. On the other hand, there is no possibility of local self-government operating, especially in the exercise of spatial management functions, including a strategy for economic development, resettlement and the like. On the other hand, there are many people who, with hard work in the past, have become owners of properties in Slovenia. We all know that the structure of private property in the area of housing in Slovenia is significantly larger in private ownership than elsewhere. And many of these people today, 400, 500 and more euros, will simply not be able to pay. As we have already said, equality before the law will be taken into account in the Constitutional Court. There's a whole bunch of eccentric cases that show up. Even in recent days, they come into the parliamentary hands of warnings, images of broken houses, almost ruins that are protected by the monument, in Koroška, and it is very significant that the duty for such a house is several times higher than for real villas in the area. That is why the Council of the Carinthia also called on everyone to listen to this. I really appeal, colleagues and colleagues – we come and we are chosen from people to work for people. I think that with this tax, so accepted and so unfair, without pre-calculation, we are doing people a great deal of wrong. You can see that this law is being amended when it is not even enforced, so I think that it would be a much better thought on behalf of these people, and that the law is being professionally prepared and enforced when it is capable of doing so. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will certainly be in favour of not enforcing such a law. I also want you to follow us with a parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all my colleagues and colleagues, to the Minister and Secretary of State! In our party, we have devoted a great deal of time to this law, especially to the adoption process and to the content of the law. However, the opinion on the law has not been changed, and we will support it in spite of everything. We estimate that this is an intervention law that solves the financing situation in our country. However, we are aware of what we have already said on several occasions that the law is not ideal, but it certainly does not like any political option, and even less so to our taxpayers. The fact is that it is a uniform and comprehensive regulation of this area, which means that this tax will be uniform for all real estate owners. For now this duty is in the domain of the individual municipality, and the citizens were practically in an unequal position. Some did not pay anything — we have already talked about the fact that there was no contribution to the compensation for the use of building land in one congregation, while others had significantly higher amounts, which means that the taxpayers were not equally burdened. It is true, however, that we have managed to mitigate this tax in two aspects. The first element is lower taxation for social weaknesses, and the second element is the gradual introduction of housing tax. We wanted an even longer period and a lower percentage, but we are aware, as I said before, of the situation in which the country is currently. This may not sound like a great achievement, but we are convinced that this means the most to the poor. It also holds that the Government does not dispute that this tax covers that part of people's property, which is extremely poorly valued, is poorly valued. So there are various anomalies that some rubble is estimated to be so much or more than a residence. Following the government's assurance, this obvious injustice will be rectified. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia we also go on trust this time. However, for reasons of the adoption of the veto, it is possible to highlight the main issue, this is the issue of funding the municipalities. We are not surprised by this reason in our parliamentary group, for we all know how many representatives of the congregation are sitting in the State Council. Once again, I appeal not only to the Government and the Ministry, but also to the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and all other competent services to counter, quickly and consistently save all the anomalies that will arise in relation to this property tax or valuation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished representative of the Council of State! First of all, on behalf of New Slovenia, I should like to point out that in this case the Council of State has played the role that Parliament is supposed to play as the second home – the possibility of reconsidering and the possibility of re-examination of the National Assembly with regard to this non-systematic and unfair law, the Real Estate Tax Act. If we look at the explanation of the State Council's request for re-voting on this law, I can say that in New Slovenia we agree with all their arguments. They also expressed their opinion to the professional public and to the general public, with a unified position against the law and in particular by signing a petition against this law. Already in the presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group on the first decision, the Christian Democrats made a clear statement to the coalition about the process of its adoption. A regular parliamentary procedure should be provided for the system law, where opinions and debates could be exchanged, and the content of the law could be adequately weighed, reasonable and fair. We Christian Democrats have tried to table a number of amendments and have proposed significant corrections to the anomalies of the proposed law, but the coalition was deaf to our proposals. He won the power argument over the power of the argument. In particular, we tried not to harm the Slovenian economy so badly. We read Umar's forecasts, read the forecasts of the Bank of Slovenia and also the forecasts of the European Commission and the OECD on the state of the Slovenian economy, which is in deep depression. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, how should we talk about incentives and economic development if we tax the economy more than twice on the current burden. How do investors know in advance that their new business properties will be burdened by excessive taxes, in addition to all the other taxes already levied by the State? Who will even choose to invest in Slovenia, which is already almost hermetically closed to foreign investors anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, among other things, we are outraged by the taxation of firehouses. They are not exempt from taxation in this law, such as exempt humanitarian facilities. There was a speech that the Fire Act said that firehouses would not be taxed. We asked lawyers, experts in this area, and we were not told that firehouses owned by voluntary fire companies would be non-taxable. That's why we're outraged at the taxation of firehouses. There are about 2,000 of these in Slovenia. Practically all these facilities were built with voluntary work, voluntary contributions and donations. I wonder where the voluntary fire companies, which by most of the owners of these facilities, will take the financial resources for these purposes. Is there going to be a procedure for the liquidation of voluntary fire companies? We have about a thousand 400 in Slovenia, and about 150 thousand volunteer firefighters. I'm asking you, which voluntary fire company is going to build a new firehouse. For the state? For Ljubljana? Volunteering is part of Slovenian culture. Last but not least, how high taxes will be paid by pensioners under 400 euros per month, who have been below the poverty threshold for years and are breaking out day after day, even though they have earned their pension honestly [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We, New Slovenia and the opposition, are the only honest fighters for pensioners because we want to promote the economy. The only economy has provided for the charging of the pension allowance. Will farmers have to sell commercial buildings, perhaps demolish economic buildings, because they will not be able to pay high taxes for them? [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President, I ask you again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u21	They've calmed down, Mr. Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u22	I prefer your finding, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. I'm concluding. Members of the New Slovenia Group will also vote in a second vote against the Real Estate Tax Act. I call on fellow Members and colleagues, in particular from the coalition, to have common sense and to act on conscience in re-decision on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Aleksandra Osterman, I ask you not to disturb the speaker when he represents the position of the Group of Members. We have spent a lot of time discussing this law, so today it really is not the intention to exchange views, because the rules of procedure do not allow us to do so, and even less so that we disturb the debaters. Ms Aleksandra Osterman, you have the floor to present the position of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Real Estate Tax Act, which was adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly 15. 11. 2013 will introduce a system tax that will apply to all properties throughout the territory of Slovenia and will include four duties that have been imposed so far: compensation for the use of building land, a higher value tax on immovable property, compensation for the use of forest land and property taxes. From next year we will therefore have one duty which will be clear and predictable, and this, I stress, throughout the territory of Slovenia. The real estate tax shall be updated and the weaknesses of the system so far, such as impreciseness, incomparability and arbitrariness of the determination of the objects of taxation, the taxpayers and the level of taxation, shall be addressed. This law has been in preparation for several years and numerous coordinations and various analyses have been carried out in preparation. The real estate tax is a systemic tax that he knows and has all of Europe. In comparison, property taxation in Slovenia is lower than the average in other countries. With us, it represents only 0.6% of GDP. We are again accountable to all those who say that taxation will be disproportionately high after the introduction of the tax: this, respected, is simply not true. Taxation will continue to be lower than the average in the OECD countries. Following the introduction of the tax, it will be around 1% and the OECD countries have this percentage around 1.6%. The Real Estate Tax Act provides that before the first dose in 2014, based on data on 1 April 2014, all owners will be re-enabled to verify, correct and supplement the real estate data in the Real Estate Register. In addition, an objection procedure to the determination of the general market value of immovable property will be enhanced by an intervention in the Law on the mass valuation of immovable property. An individual valuation for individual real estates will also be possible, and a different overall market value for real estate may be determined taking into account specific individual circumstances. Therefore, the assumption that the debtors are not given sufficient time to familiarise themselves with the new system is not true. Indeed, the public debate has opened up a wide range of dilemmas, from socially disadvantaged citizens who do have real estate but cannot pay taxes for various reasons to all known problems regarding the methodology for determining the general market value of real estate. The Law on Mass Valuation was adopted in 2006. 26 different evaluation models have been identified for Slovenia. Gurs performed his first indexation of the property value in September 2013. The overall market value of real estate decreased from 10 to 30 %, on average 17 %. In 2014, 80 % of the overall market value of real estate will be taken into account as the basis for the tax assessment and 90 % in 2015. They're both for housing. The group of the most vulnerable citizens will have the possibility of being paid in half or even exempt from payment of the tax in question, which the taxpayer will be able to carry out in the tax procedure. Respectable tax is needed in order to introduce transparency and unity in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to equalise all citizens regardless of where they live and where they have real estate. Finally, it has been quite a good 15 years since we have been talking about this tax, and for all these reasons, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will once again support the Real Estate Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representative of the Council of State, distinguished minister, secretary of state, colleague and colleague, welcome! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly oppose such a property tax because it is harmful to the entire system of property taxation and other objects of taxation, because it is probably contrary to the Constitution because it does not provide sufficient funds for municipalities and reduces local self-government because it is unsocial, because it is, after all, unprofessionally prepared without adequate grounds. Never, and in no country, does the property tax represent any major fiscal impact. The property tax is always imposed in order to increase services or the quality of services in municipalities, and in all countries it is always the source of budgets for municipalities and for strengthening local communities, not for the state budget and not for the municipalities, because they will have to pay this tax in a new way, and therefore will have a smaller financial impact. This is about centralising funds, centralising money, and it's about weakening rural areas, especially the poorest municipalities, those that have the least and want to get this money through investment. The tax is not based on the relevant records. We see that every day. We can see there's no record. Above all, the state does not have records for health care homes, for kindergartens, for schools, for firehouses, which will also be taxed under this new tax. On the other hand, this tax will bring more money than the present property tax. This is unacceptable and means a social blow mainly for the poorest, given the specificities of construction in Slovenia, when most properties were built in the 1970s and 1980s. It's a big blow to the pensioners who are already living hard. It is therefore incomprehensible that such a law is passed and that the actual social situation of the people is not taken into account. Indeed, this tax is a social tax and will affect those who have the least today and, on the other hand, does not provide adequate legal certainty so that the taxable person can also complain about the assessment of the value. As we know, some laws in this regard should now be changed, and he will not be able to do so, not on the basis of this law. Since it will not have sufficient legal certainty and because the tax is non-social, the Republic will be able to acquire these properties during the transitional period. This fund will increase more and more, on the other hand, people who have been building these properties for many years will probably lose it forever. This will in some way result in the nationalisation and reallocation of real estate wealth in Slovenia. The question is, what will be the real estate structure in 10 years, how many owners will we have? Today we know we have about 90%. This is likely to decrease, and in the end, we will have a handful of people who will be giving out property especially to those who will not be able to pay the tax. Because of all these negative things, and because of the weaknesses of the law itself, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law is harmful, that it is unjust, that it is contrary to the concept of the rule of law, that it is unsocial and that in very short it is likely that the Constitutional Court will say the last word on this matter. This is why we strongly oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on the Real Estate Tax Act. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly — 46 or more — must vote. The interest was expressed in explaining the voice. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much again. Once again, let me reiterate our view that we strongly oppose this type of reception in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's a system law. In the case of a system law, this law must be adopted in accordance with the normal procedure in the National Assembly, not by a rapid procedure. The solutions must be examined from all angles of view, not only financial, but also from the perspective of local self-government, from the social perspective, from the spatial planning angle, from the perspective of how this tax will affect the development of municipalities and the development of local self-government. This law is also not based, as has been found on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, on the relevant records. The State and the parastatal institutions do not have adequate records for their own real estate. This could result in the collapse of the whole system when the first decisions are issued to taxpayers and the taxpayers will be in an unequal position. The tax base is a general market value calculated on the basis of some models that were made in 2006. They were later improved, but based on these models we can find that some properties are not even included in this model and in these records. How it happened, we don't know, but probably based on the mistakes Gurs made here. In addition, this law also taxes farms, pastures, meadows, forests and all the buildings that companies have to create added value. You'll all have to pay that tax now. This means that the tax is paid to other taxes and that this tax is used to homage the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian economy and make the competition situation of the Slovenian economy and competitiveness worse. In this way, Slovenia will not come out of the crisis, but the crisis will only deepen and, on the other hand, the financial impact will not be able to provide an adequate budget, which will not be based on the deficit. This is why we strongly oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you. Since interest has been expressed to explain the vote on behalf of the members of the groups, I invite you to apply. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. There are many reasons – some we have listed – for which the Group of Members will also vote against this law this time. Let me mention and question the tax base as one of the reasons. The tax base is problematic, colleagues and colleagues. However, you can also see this for yourself, and I think it would be good for us to reject this law today in order to come together. We have the opportunity to adopt a new law this year, a better law, a more professional, fairer law, and could also enter into force with 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Surely, I am sure that the European Commission would not resent this and would not change the opinion it has given us this month for the 2014 budget documents. Until we understand that the economy needs to be unloaded, and until we understand that the privatisation process needs to be accelerated – this is another area, but we are stuck there – simply, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no new jobs. There won't be any! We need at least 60 grand. It's a difficult task. We could do it together in due course, I'm sure. One last reason and then I stop, ladies and gentlemen: if I quote one of the vice-presidents of this government, the Slovenian government, this law collects the last change to Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. We exchanged a lot of opinions on this marriage. All I regret is that the German majority of this law will also pass through the veto, and that we accept, as has already been said, the system law in a non-democratic, non-European way. This speed, emergency procedure and inability to simulate the consequences of this law will result in a headache. Once again, thank the Council of State for allowing us to make that decision again. Thank you very much to all signatories of the petition who, indeed, with the largest number, colleagues and colleagues, in the independent Republic of Slovenia have expressed disagreement with some of the work of the country. Unfortunately, this doesn't touch you and you're going headlessly through the process. In a conversation with these people, it was heard about whether this law is fair, whether it is a fair tax, whether it is a complete loss of reason, whether it is a tax on creativity, whether it is a tax on past work, how to do it in such a unstable environment as we create, and with the new and new burdens, of which the one we are talking about is only one in a row, we are doing a completely unstable business environment. The craftsmen – the first to sign under petition, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, expressed great resentment over this and also with numerous calculations he served. That is why Mr Meh disagrees with this law. Many congregations protested against this law. They come from associations of municipalities, but unfortunately the policy is as it was expressed in one of the colleges: we have decided to collect this tax in this area and thus fill the state budget. I firmly believe that you are making a huge mistake, that we will certainly be dealing with this law, because all these legal voids that are in this law are being warned by recognized constitutional experts, and it is obvious that a handful of reason can no longer be understood to listen to this and also to talk to society, to the other parties that we are in opposition, to what kind of law it is. Unfortunately, this is becoming a procedure. In such a quiet and silent way, we are borrowing loans, in such a quiet and silent way, we will obviously continue to operate. As long as this is happening to us, and as long as those who are not honest are driving the money from this country with trucks, there is no solution for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. There is an interest to explain your vote on your own behalf, so I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that as a Parliament we should do much more to improve the business environment for the functioning of the economy, which would increase the inflows to the budget as well. If we look at the 10-year data on how much foreign direct investment was in the social gross product in Slovenia, we find that we are far from the last place in Europe. Look at the data. Montenegro, as a small country, has 19.5% of its gross social product in the last 10 years and 1.76 in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the data, these are the numbers that should prepare us for a different course of action. We should primarily take care of a competitive environment, the business environment of the country of Slovenia. Then the taxes would start to rise. Unfortunately, this is not what we have been doing for the last 10 years, and this is the main reason for the crisis in Slovenia. With us it is no longer possible to work honestly and live honestly. People with 600 euros of wages or pensions live hard or impossible, and companies work hard. I expect we'll choose different solutions than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you. I just have to warn you, mag. Ivan Vogrin, that you did not define yourself as to how you would vote, because this is the purpose of explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u36	I thought the debate was clear. I will vote against it because I think the law is against development.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm sure I won't support this predatory marriage because it's another attempt at looting the countryside. I will not repeat the things that have already been said, but I can only say that those rural congregations that were collecting NUSZ have been burdened by the use of building land by natural persons about as much as the great city congregation. Of course, there are not as many legal persons in these congregations as in the larger congregations, and about four to five times less than in the city’s congregations. Now that the first three years have reached the larger congregations as many as the NUSZ has collected, legal persons will pay four times as much as they do now, and the money collected in rural congregations, where it will be collected from natural persons, will flow four times as much from housing as the NUSZ has so far. The case of Velenje: they will have two million after this new tax, half of which they will receive 6.5 million. The municipality of Črnomelj and Kočev is a million less than they will collect. Colleagues and colleagues will ask where their money goes when citizens get these bills, which will be about the size of the utilities. Gentlemen, then we will ensure that those of your constituents will also know how you voted for this tax or for this burden, of which they have nothing. Be aware of that, and I hope there will be more bills than the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you. Before I give the floor to explain your vote, I propose that all those who wish to explain your vote do the same as the leaders of the groups of Members who have exemplaryly done the explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. They have determined on the basis of the content of the law how the parliamentary group will vote. The explanation of the vote is not intended to try to persuade others to call or dispute with others, but to define how you will vote on the basis of the content of the law. Please take into account the purpose of the explanation of vote in your own name. Mr. Ivan Grill has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I will not support this law myself, not because I am a member of the opposition, but because this law is really not in favour of Slovenia and even less of the inhabitants of our country. This law is essentially harmful. As has been said several times before, even what the applicant stated in his explanation – that he will simplify the taxation system of all these properties – is not true, for those parameters that are necessary to achieve this are not sufficient in Slovenia, from the bad records of Gurs and could still be listed. In addition, this law has been unfair, unfair, and will be burdened primarily by those who, in the past, have done a great deal of building work, who now have the opportunity to stay at all. Here I have in mind mainly the older population who built their houses, their homes, and now they will be taxed too much. This law will also touch the budgets of the municipalities, because what is the original income of the congregations in many countries, and also with us, will now be largely transferred to the country. This will also weaken the position of the municipalities. This will also affect the countryside in this way, and those who preserve our cultural landscape, who, even with their work and that modest property in the form of real estate, make sure that our countryside does not grow. This will now force many to undermine those facilities or leave the farms. And something else that seems extremely important to me – many young people will be affected by the decision to open up their business, and it is precisely because of this law that they will not decide whether they are facing a great dilemma or not. This marriage is as bad as I said, and I won't. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this law myself. In the Slovenian People's Party in the past weeks and months, we have cited a number of substantive arguments against the adoption of this law. With various activities in various areas, we have tried to demonstrate that stubborn insistence on this criminal and systemic law is not what would lead to a bright future, but only leads to the opening of new issues. He's pinning more and more people on us. Even those who may have initially disagreed with us now insist that this is a marriage that is not properly written. Even the Government considers that certain legal changes to certain laws relating to the Real Estate Tax Act are necessary. First, it is necessary to regulate that area and then move into the regulation of such a law, because it is more orderly in essence an absurdity that no democratic state should afford. It is not bad if you realize in time that the opposition was right, that it is worse to adopt a law that you know in your heart is unjust and that it will harm citizens unjustly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Excuse me? Excuse me, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Franz Pukšič is on the list before you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this law, as I voted in favour of this law. I will vote against it because Slovenians and Slovenians worked night and day at all times, from Monday to Sunday to create something, such as farmers, craftsmen, those who built houses or bought apartments. Today, this marriage burdens you. This law burdens them worse than an elephant in a china shop. This law burdens them as bulldozers in a china shop. This bulldozer went to the countryside, the workers, the craftsmen and the farmers. Specifically, this law limits the company from Styria, which has 10 employees with about 20% unemployment, from today's €650 tax to about €3.500 to €4.000. This law is wrong. This law does not tax equally decaying farms with villas, with houses of property. This law taxes nothing, not a single cent, of various persings, but billions left in mailboxes. This law gives silence to the only shopping malls that take money to Gradec from Maribor in the evening when they close them. I am against this law because this law is against citizens and citizens. Those you support don't like these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I will vote against this tax, which is unfair, predatory and unfair, against a tax which drastically taxes citizens of Slovenia, their dwellings and other property, a tax equivalent in its nature to a fighter in the Turkish Empire, which was intended for Christians to go to Islam or move out. What this coalition is doing is at a time when influential Southern lobbyists, in the midst of a mob in trucks in Serbia, are hauling money that has been looted in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek, I tried to warn you correctly before I gave you my word that you were talking about the content of the law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u48	collect the apartments that our citizens will have to sell at a lousy price because they will not be able to do so. [[...]] The law is also specifically directed against rural areas, farmers and small entrepreneurs. Therefore, this law also constitutes an attack on the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, since it is known that the country in which the rural population is not inhabited by indigenous peoples is not defensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will not support this law alone at this second reading or after the veto of the State Council, especially because of the fact that many other facts have come up in the meantime, indicating that this law, if adopted, will have to be corrected very quickly and that it will cause a lot of bad will among taxpayers. However, there is no way that I can support this law because it restricts the local community in its original task. This law is also intended abroad to fill the budget of local communities. Within this law, which we have before us again for a decision, there are many dictions that say that it is likely to be unconstitutional under law and that it will fall at the Constitutional Court, because it is built-in to shift revenue from one local community to another, which is unconstitutional in our view. On the other hand, it takes a lot of income to local communities, which will be very limited in the next phase in terms of drawing on European funds and development, which the coalition has been working on all the time. In addition to hitting all taxpayers, the law largely limits the potential of local communities for further development and, in this respect, is inappropriate and cannot be supported in this second decision. It will cause a lot of discontent, dissatisfaction and probably a lot of implementation problems, which means it is inappropriate to support and accept it in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I suggest you sign up. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister who is not in the Chamber, distinguished secretary of state, respected visitors on the balcony! I inform you that I cannot support this law because it is unjust because it is a social one and does not advocate a just and legal state. In the coalition, you've obviously decided to do everything [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Mrs Sonja Ramšak, I remind you that it is not allowed to speak to others or to accuse in the stage of explanations of vote. Stay with the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What hurts you, of course, you don't like to hear it. But citizens and citizens know very well that this law is extremely harmful, not only for young families, not only for businesses, not only for local communities, but it is harmful literally for the functioning of the whole system and the country. With this law you have decided to protect the rich, you have chosen to protect those who have illegally acquired property and will now have the opportunity to buy property from the poor. You are defending the illegal state because there is no possibility of a claim to the calculation of property or to the value to be subject to taxation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today you have the opportunity to correct your mistake and give the opportunity to reform the law, as we have already proposed with the amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the opposition, but you obviously do not hear the voice of the people. I certainly won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u55	This time we have heard how the explanation of vote cannot take place. I really ask that you stick to the Rules of Procedure and to what your predecessors have also said on behalf of the groups of Members. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State! In my re-decision on the Property Tax Act, I will re-vote against it. Just a few reasons for this – I hope they will be listed in the right way, as you said. This is a disproportionate increase in the taxation of most property owners. In particular, I would like to remind entrepreneurs – I would like only one person in this work, entrepreneurs who are filling our budget, from which literally the whole country lives. It's a completely unfair taxation of residential property. There are huge differences in comparisons between parts of Slovenia. Local communities are disadvantaged, where the core of coherent regional development activities is certainly taking place. What we have today is significantly more developed, not only in rural areas, but all parts of Slovenia, thanks to the local communities and the solid funding of local communities. One last reason that I will give in this short time: the rapid adoption of the law – it was not possible to draw up appropriate comparative calculations on the basis of which we could make a more just decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. It was very proper, so congratulations. Mag. Matthew Tonin will explain his voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I object to the real estate tax law because it is unfair and unnecessary. He is unfair because there are cases of excellence, such as the fact that a goat in Ljubljana is estimated at EUR 300,000, while a villa is estimated at EUR 50,000. These are just the most eloquent examples of why this law is unfair. Now, why is this marriage unnecessary? We do not need this law to balance public finances, and I will also explain why. Some EUR 200 million of annual budget revenues are foreseen under this law. Now, the second part of the story is that Slovenia will need around €10 billion in 2014 – a billion budget deficit, 4 billion old debts and at least 5 billion for the resolution of the banking system. This money's gonna have to be borrowed by the state somewhere. If she borrows it from European funds, that interest rate will be 1%. If it borrows it in unknown financial markets, this interest rate may also be 5% or even higher. Only in the case of interest for the following year can a country with a clear policy save EUR 400 million, which is twice the property tax revenue. That's the main reason why I think this tax is unnecessary, and like I said, because it's unfair and unnecessary, I object. That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Well-welcome Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I will not support the real estate law, especially because it is unjust and will hurt the various segments of the population unfairly, so that it constitutes an insult to a particular group of people. Moreover, it is unconstitutional because the estimated price is the basis for a real estate tax contrary to the Constitution. The evaluation was non-transparent and also unprofessional, and the development of the Slovenian community and territory is also booming. The proposed law also does not take into account the eligibility criteria for housing, which is the criterion for granting non-profit housing, and does not take into account the status of a large family with three or more children up to the age of 18 years as foreseen by the Property Tax Act. Therefore, I feel that you are endangering the peaceful age of farmers and rural people and increasing the concern of young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much. As I've said here many times before, I don't intend to support this tax in any way. Not only is it an unfair tax, but it is a tax which is at the time when Slovenia should be heavily disinvested when it has to sell off state property, which would be the only right way – instead it rents loans at a catastrophic rate and, on the other hand, it also cripples the economic system. Not only has the Minister of Economic Affairs done nothing at this time, but you are further affected by the fact that any potential investor who invests anything in Slovenia decides for countries that have a better business environment. This tax also introduces a new profession. A new profession in the future will be the so-called real estate broker or real estate dealer of the failed smaller farmers and smaller craftsmen, particularly in the countryside. On the other hand, this tax from smaller municipalities makes money to Ljubljana to pay for inherited projects to finance the so-called Udbomafi network in Slovenia, and that is the essence of this tax. You need to be aware of that. We have a total untransparent management of state-owned enterprises, where every year we lose at least the proceeds of this complete tax, which was totally unnecessary. The next thing in this real estate tax is that we give a signal to people who decide each day with their rational or irrational solutions that it is not worth being decent in this country, honest, that it is not worth giving up, and thus stifling some Protestant ethics, some normal ethics of some serious business environment. During the long term, the prosperity of all citizens and citizens, especially those who are at the lowest level and who have contributed most with their work, suffering and denial to this state treasury. The tax, as I have predicted, I do not intend to support it, and I believe that you will also change your mind about this tax from the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you. Your Honor! I will also vote against the law, because it is already in the opinion on the State Council's re-voting request that this government either has no idea what it wants or has lost contact with reality or is lying to us all, which is also the conclusion of the Government that the government rejects the assumption that the property tax will reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the current ministers said three years ago that the proposed property tax would be a tragedy for Slovenian agriculture. Dearly beloved, this tax is a tragedy not only for Slovenian agriculture, but for all segments of our society, let it be an economy, young people, craftsmen, farmers, as well as local communities. So far, congregations have had the opportunity to give young people the opportunity to stay in the countryside for compensation for the use of building land by exempting them or perhaps reducing them for a little while. This law no longer allows this, and young people will really consider whether they want to stay in their place, whether they decide for a new family, whether they decide to build their own house, whether they decide to open an espionage, or something else. There used to be a stone on a stone — a palace, and now tax is taxed — this government. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u66	The real estate tax law, which is before us today, is a developmental destruction and a legal understatement, so that we have not seen anything similar to the legal order of the state of Slovenia. It represents what Mrs Cerar once called legal big pigs. What's its effect? A new nationalization will take place, the poor and the middle layer will be left without real estate to be transferred to the congregations. The municipalities will be left with a bunch of real estate with which they will not have anything to do, their price will drop dramatically, and at the same time the state, your government, your coalition will relentlessly spend the money it will collect from these congregations. The final result will be: poorer people, poorer congregations and free money. This is the effect of this law, and this law cannot be supported and deserves no support. It is fair to speak of honesty in connection with this law, as the minister had previously done, in mockery of the word. You know exactly how wrong it is to think that a law without all guardians is that it even prohibits the possibility of a complaint, and at the same time we have a bunch of cases that you know well when they are at the best locations, say near Lake Bled, and where else, a real castle is estimated at a few ten thousand euros, and in cities of old houses that are almost demolishing themselves, half a million euros and more. To talk about honesty in relation to such a law – forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, this is not how these things are done. This law should be rejected in its entirety and the whole system should be rewritten. Today is an opportunity. I will vote against it myself, and whoever has at least a little responsibility to people who have at least a little sense of statehood for the state to put a common interest before their own personal interest will also vote against the law that will [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Grims went into the area of speaking, so just for a warning: let us stay in the content of the law and how you will vote. Mr. Robert Hrvat is next to have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't support the law. The real estate tax law, as you said earlier, was coordinated with businessmen, craftsmen, farmers, municipalities – it was coordinated, but you did not harmonise it. Virtually everyone in Slovenia is opposed to this law, not only individuals, but also the associations that I have just talked about. Even in coalition, this law is clearly harmonised, and this means that there is a product before us that is unique in Europe. It is true that most European countries have a property tax, but this property tax is intended for the municipalities, not to fill the state budget, not to fill a hole in the state budget, which is significantly larger than you want to show. The fact is that money in these European countries, as I mentioned earlier, is intended for the general well-being of the people in the environment where they live. What are we doing? On the contrary — we throw this money away. Imagine the relationship that colleague Bogovic described earlier, in Ljubljana, when it would be EUR 522 for a house for which EUR 125 has been paid so far. This three-timer can be calculated by all Slovenes and Slovenes for their properties. Before the vote, you should have in mind those people who are already struggling to live when you tax them, and they will be even more difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you. Before I give you my word, I ask you to calm down in the hall. If you want to talk, step into the lobby. I'll also use the call to join us in the hall if you're in the lobby. I'm really asking for peace. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The proposal for a property tax is inhuman, antisocial, and I cannot support it in any way. If it was true that they sometimes collected tithes, we would have a tithe or something less today. The real estate tax is only one fire-fighting action on Horuk, intended exclusively for the implementation of the state budget. Unfortunately, because of the incompetence and ineffective fiscal policy of the government, Alenka Bratušek is the only witness to new taxes and even higher taxes. And I don't want to mention it because I believe we all know it. On the side of spending in the state budget, however, the government of Alenka Bratušek has done nothing, even though we know that the reserves are huge. On the basis of the fact that every small person, farmer, young individual will now pay ever higher taxes because of the fact that nothing can or cannot be done on the expenditure side of the budget – this is unacceptable. If Lisec spoke earlier about the slogans of the government of Alenka Bratušek, he might add another tax — a privilege. With the property tax, we will additionally burden an economy that is already barely breathing and falling from day to day. Where will we hire all the young unemployed if not in the economy? With the property tax, we will also additionally burden the countryside. How will we motivate young people to stay in the countryside and take care of rural development in the future? It's hard. I will not support this tax in any way, and I hope that it will not receive sufficient support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanations of vote, so I suggest you apply for an explanation. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I won't support the law. The reasons are exactly the same as when this law was first adopted. This law is one of those laws that is unique in Europe – because no country in Europe collects it in order to make it the income of the country, as proposed by us, but it is the income of the congregation everywhere. The second reason is that this law makes the Slovenian countryside poor and gives it to large cities, especially Ljubljana. Let me just give you a few numbers. The municipalities of Šmarje pri Jelšah, where I live, will pay 128% more tax and 21% less tax in the municipal budget than before. Citizens of one of the poorest municipalities in this environment, the Municipality of Kozje, will pay 273% more taxes and the municipality will have 33% less income from this title. The municipalities of Podčetrtek will pay 231% more tax and the municipality will therefore have 28% less tax from this title. The same applies to all other municipalities in the Slovenian area, in particular small and rural municipalities. Therefore, municipalities, especially Ljubljana and some other large municipalities such as Velenje – the left political option has been winning for many years. That's why I won't support the marriage. Mr President, I have never asked for a procedural proposal in the previous and this mandate. At least in my previous term, I don't remember [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Dr. Gorenak, you have the opportunity to explain your voice, not to politicize it, so you can't talk about what you wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u74	I would like to ask procedurally for the first time since I've been a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u75	You may ask procedurally when you have completed your explanation of vote. If I understand you correctly, you want to make a procedural proposal. Please, Dr. Gorenak, you have the floor. Try reporting it. Is it not working? Let's wait a few moments. It takes about a minute to wait for the system to adjust.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Now it's going to be. Mr President, I have a procedural proposal or a request as you wish. Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discusses what the work of the President of the National Assembly is. Permanently, as long as I've been in the National Assembly and since you've been in charge of the National Assembly, I find you're in violation of this Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you not to violate him again. There is no record in the Rules of Procedure that you have the right to evaluate and award assessments, as you have just given to Mr President and Mr Grimes. That's not in the rules of procedure. It says in the Rules of Procedure that you hold meetings of the National Assembly, and I find you to be an actor. At a time when members of your political office speak, you look at the table, you act as if you are reading some important text, and by doing so you automatically overlook, Mr President, all Members, regardless of whether they insult or do not know what they are saying. They're allowed everything. As soon as we are members of the opposition, your activities at your table will cease. Then you do not read any important text, then you do not consult the secretary-general or the person sitting there. Then you listen carefully to the debate. You've been doing this since you've been in this chair. This is not in Article 19, and you are not allowed to do so. In accordance with the rules of procedure, you must be President of all Members of the National Assembly, regardless of who supported you. Under Article 19, you have no right to give an assessment to Mr President, Grims, me or anyone, but you must conduct the meeting as stated in the Rules of Procedure – to give your word, to take it away, you can remove the Member from the National Assembly. You can do anything, as the rules of procedure say. However, the Rules of Procedure do not give you any possibility, and you have no right to make a distinction between Members. Once again, I emphasize, you look at the floor, you look at the table and you act, you say our neighbours, in Slovenian, that someone doesn't fix me, you play like you're very busy, and you're missing something when the coalition members speak. And you remind members of the opposition of every little thing. Mr President, if you wish to be President of all Members – so you have been elected – respect Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Thank you, Dr. Gorenak. I have certainly also said at my assumption of this function that I will respect the Rules of Procedure and that I particularly want to be equal to all Members and Members. I also realize that sometimes a minority has an advantage because it is a minority, and here I am thinking of the opposition. In my work, I think I try to put it this way many times. As regards the hearing of the debates, I am listening carefully to the discussions of the coalition as well as the opposition, and the observations you have made are indeed unfounded. I wish that the debates in the National Assembly would take place in a way that takes account of the rules of procedure. Once again, the explanation for the vote is not intended to paralyze, but to explain your vote on the basis of the content of the law that we are going to decide on. I also keep this in mind, and therefore I think it is extremely important and correct that we follow the rules of procedure even when we explain our vote. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Thank you very much. How a Member or a Member can explain its voice is his business, and you have no right to interrupt it. So far in advance, there won't be any unnecessary interventions in the next two minutes. This law cannot be supported. In the context of explanations of vote, there was not a single vote for this law. The silent majority will press the button at the end and decide, but there is no argument that they can defend the Real Estate Tax Act. None of the votes were heard in these explanations for this law. This real estate tax is inappropriate because the rate was determined on the basis of how much money is missing in the state budget, but not for the development of municipalities, for the development of the state, for the development of its infrastructure, but for the coverage of bank-Tacoon works and for the drawing of money to financial speculators. One of the last happened a few days ago. This is how he bought billions and 500 million Euros of bonds, and in a relatively short time, he spent some 80 million Euros of our money in his pocket in a few days. That's what this tax is for, and that's why it can't be supported. Who else are the winners? Large shopping centers have already been mentioned — rich Spar, Lidl, Mercator. These will all pay from three to five times less than today. A concrete example: instead of €160,000, there will be a commitment of €40,000. On the other hand, some who have spent their lives collecting apartments and houses will pay ten times as much as they have paid so far. He does not hold that this law will place a much greater burden on the rich. He's going to put a lot more pressure on the poor. It will burden schools, kindergartens, as well as local and state budgets. Since the money will be low, it will have to be taken on other items. This will further distance the social and legal state. Finally, there will be no housing for young people, because all non-profits will have to be taxed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support this real estate tax law myself. The source of this law is an unrealistic budget. In drawing up the budget, the Government found that the shift, that the manck scissors were open in the budget, had to be sought for a solution. The solution is a property tax – ad hoc solutions to fill a mannequin in the state budget regardless of what the basis is, what the consequences will be and what will happen in the country. There has already been a talk about the loss of income to the congregations, but it will not be a mere loss of income to the congregations, that is the first. That's exactly what it's gonna be. Second, the congregations will be heavily burdened. On the one hand, income losses, on the other hand, are heavily burdened, and this is a very serious knee shot and weakening of the local environment throughout the Republic of Slovenia. This is harmful and thus very limited local operation and financial functioning of local communities in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you. The word was given to all who had been reported to this point. But it is also an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! More than 80,000 people signed against the Real Estate Tax Act. The day was the veto of the State Council on this law. Both local communities and entrepreneurs say that the law is unfair, that it is not socially oriented and that it interferes with the social state. Countless hours of discussion have been devoted to this real estate tax. All of these are arguments that should undoubtedly reexamine the government of Alenka Bratušek. If the government of Alenka Bratušek does not know what would be good for this country and for citizens and citizens, then this is expected from the legislative branch of power, from the coalition Members. Today, coalition Members have the opportunity to remedy this, once again, to make a wiser decision. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm coming from the fishing-coach area. There are 6 municipalities in this area, and all municipalities, apart from the Ribnica, are in very developmental danger, also, by the way, quite rarely inhabited. I do not understand why municipalities in this area should contribute to the state budget from the collected taxes on their property, namely about 600 inhabitants of Kostel 200 000, 400 inhabitants of Osilnica 100 000, 17 000 inhabitants of Kočevje million 300 000 euros and so on. How should further development of the area be ensured under all criteria in this sparsely populated and developmentally threatened area? That's impossible. The only substance of the municipalities that would receive this tax and target its development will be collected by the state budget. When we discussed the budget, we also proposed, say, an amendment to the railway budget. This one was also rejected, and the only route we have is unfinished between Ribnica and Kočev. It is unacceptable to intervene in this way in areas in Slovenia. This law, which includes those who are greatly underdeveloped, in which the people do not even have much wealth, valuable property — even what is required by law, is taken away and transferred to another address. There is no way to ensure own participation in investments, in candidateing for European funds, and the development of these municipalities will only stop further. I strongly oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I will re-vote against this law, as I did for the first time. First of all for the first and most important reason; that is that this law, which should be of a systemic nature – as presented by the Government as a proponent – is intended exclusively for the budget to be filled. EUR 200 million will affect all people in Slovenia, but this will mean little in the budget. It is not right for such an important system law to be adopted quickly, and a number of professional issues, many of the issues of interest have not been resolved despite the claim that the Government has tried to comply with all stakeholders. This law is totally unfair because it ignores the fact that taxes must be such that taxation is proportionate to the economic power of the taxpayer. This is a completely different relationship. It is also unfair because taxation is not based on market value but is the basis of an imaginary, some modelly defined value, for which it has been shown many times that it does not correspond to the actual situation. This law is also constitutionally controversial as the taxation provided for in this Title should be known and foreseeable. That's not the case. The municipalities will be able to either raise or lower taxes, and Gurs will also be able to influence the tax base by changing the general market value of real estate. This law is an exclusive means of filling a weakened budget and, as such, I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Thank you very much. As in previous votes when I voted against, I will also be against this law today, especially because this law in no way improves the quality of services in the municipalities, but it makes these services worse or worsen their quality. This means that citizens and citizens will have a poorer quality of services. This means that in particular in the countryside they will feel the lack of money received by the municipalities, and this means that, on the other hand, citizens and citizens will also feel some poorer quality, poorer protection in the municipalities. In addition, I oppose this law because it is totally non-social and will affect rural areas, it will affect property ownership relations, and it will change these properties. Because he's going to change ownership, more and more people are going to be poor. I think that reason and wisdom suggest that this law is on my part, and I think it's very difficult to support others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Thank you. I'm guessing we can move on to a decision. We are moving on to a re-decision on the Real Estate Tax Act. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. This is for a re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015. The State Council is at its fourth extraordinary session of 20. 11. 2013 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before the announcement on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bojan Kekc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! Allow me to present in a brief summary the opinion of the Council of State why we have decided that the law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015, according to our assessment, needs to be re-examined. The Council of State notes that the law on the implementation of budgets is intended to be a technical law necessary for the implementation and implementation of the annual state budget, but the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 does not only regulate the procedures for the implementation of the budget, but also other substantively important issues which, by their content and nature, fall within other laws. This law provides for more controversial and, according to our assessment of inappropriate content. The first is a government debt provision that allows the country to be in charge of almost €10 billion in the next year, covering revenue surpluses of €4.8 billion, issuing debt securities of €1 billion, implementing budgets of €70 million, intervention in the debt securities market of €1.8 billion and recapitalisation of banks of €2 billion. Such a debt policy, according to our assessment, means that the state will collapse and that it will not be possible to finance all the interest and all the annuity it will have to repay. In May this year, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and introduced a fiscal rule stipulating that only as much as it creates can be spent. Debt policy goes in the opposite direction from the adopted fiscal rule. Regrettably, the Government has not drawn up a law on the implementation of the fiscal rule, which means that if this fiscal rule were to be implemented, such an obligation as proposed in this law would not be possible. Furthermore, this generation has no moral right to place the burden of debts on future generations, especially not so enormous, large debts. The law also intervenes in the financing of municipalities and reduces their average to only EUR 525 for 2015, while reducing the funds for co-financing the investments of municipalities from the previous 4% to 2% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities for 2014. Since the quota for adequate spending is distributed according to the Development Hazard Index, the most affected municipalities with a large area per capita or those already in developmental retardation will be affected. In doing so, it should be noted that municipalities in the country make more than 70% of investments, which are largely co-financed by European Union funds. The reduction in investment resources will also put European funds at risk. With the overall reduction of funds, this law confers privileges on one municipality, the Municipality of Ljubljana, and significantly improves its financial position. The law freezes the coordination of pensions and social transfers for the next 2 years, while at the same time providing that public servants may use part of the funds for material costs for salaries. This proves that there is no rationalisation in the public sector and that it will not, irrespective of the unrestrained public financial situation. In this respect, it is also unacceptable that the purchase of capital investments by the State may be made available to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia for the promotion of the economy. In the State Council, we are convinced that the purchase from the sale of state property should first be spent on public debt payments and then could be spent for other purposes. Our conviction is also based on the interest rate at which the state owes almost 7%, which is totally unsustainable and leads to the financial breakdown of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Thank you, too. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Thank you again very much for your word. Say good-bye again! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 74th urgent meeting, on 26. 11. 2013 also addressed the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 47th extraordinary session on 15. 11. 2013 We have received a request from the Council of State, an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service and an opinion from the Government. The legislative and legal service has not been identified until the warnings of the State Council. The representative of the Council of State presented the key reasons for the request for re-decision, as we heard earlier in the presentation by the representative of the Council of State. On those grounds, the Government assesses that the grounds for the postponement of the veto are not justified and proposes to the Council of State that, in re-decision, the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 be adopted. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Committee, by a majority of the votes of all members, 10 and 6 against, adopted the opinion that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 was appropriate. We also propose to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as the proposer of the law, Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The basic objective of the law on the implementation of budgets is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget adopted. The non-implementation of the proposed law would result in the failure to implement the adopted budget for 2014 or its amendments, and this would be inconceivable as the country's 2014 budget, as adopted in 2012, will not be implemented as a result of the institutional changes that took place this year. The proposed law follows the substantive framework of the Public Finance Act, summarises the provisions of the current law on the implementation of the budget, while also contains certain provisions which, in the same way as in previous years, reduce budget expenditure. In view of the fact that the law on the implementation of the budget has already been presented several times in the adoption process, I continue to limit myself only to the reasons or to the reasons why the Government considers that the law is appropriate. In relation to setting the level of indebtedness for 2014, account should be taken of the need to provide EUR 3.3 billion for principal repayments only in the coming year. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the legal basis is only an option, which cannot be summed up. It should also be borne in mind that direct users of the budget can assume commitments and make payments to the current year's budget only for the purpose and to the level set out in the budget. The claims that the reduction in the co-financing of investments under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act will jeopardise the implementation of investment projects co-financed by EU funds, and thus the absorption of European funds, have been carefully examined by the Government and concluded as follows. In 2012, €43.6 million was planned and fully realised for investments under Article 21 of the ZFO. Of the total number of 384 projects, 46 or 12 % were co-financed from European funds on this basis. Of the funds referred to in Article 21 of the ZFO, €6.6 million was used to participate in European projects from the above mentioned 43.6 or 15%. In 2013, 44 million euros were planned in the state budget for investment projects to municipalities based on the same legal basis. Of this, 77 projects account for 20% of all projects co-financed by European funds, planned for €9.9 million and €22.5% of the above-mentioned €44 million. If the funding provided for under Article 21 of the ZFO for own participation in European co-financed investments is compared to the total value of these investments, we find that their share in the financial structure of these investments is very small – a good 7 % in the previous year and this year, if fully realised, 3.4 %. In view of the fact that the law also explicitly lays down the legal basis which allows municipalities to obtain all the appropriate funding for ongoing projects, the Government considers that in this case it is not an excessive intervention of the State into the expected rights and that, in view of the above findings, the intervention is proportionate or a balance exists between the value of the objectives and the gravity of the interventions. For all these reasons, I propose to the National Assembly that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 be reaffirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we have carefully examined the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. We agree with the Council of State that this law should be a technical law that serves to enforce and enforce the budget of each year. We are also critical of some of the content of another law, and in the process of adopting the law, we have also ruled out such content. In the course of the debate on the adoption of the law, we have also addressed concerns about the resources available to the municipalities, as well as concerns about the freezing of certain benefits and the reallocation of funds from the material costs to salaries. At the same time, in our second reading on the Committee, we have already faced a desire to spend resources on the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. In view of the interest rate of indebtedness and the past experience of state investments, interventions and subsidies, we also consider that the purchases should be used primarily for the payment of debts. This position is shared by the Minister of Finance according to our information, so that we are satisfied with the current solution. In view of all the above, it is not likely that it is surprising in the National Gazette that the Council of State has not presented us with any new view, opinion or fact to change its position on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Once again, a lovely greeting, a respected president, colleagues and colleagues, a respected state councilman! In the Slovenian People's Party, we did not support the law on the implementation of the budget when we discussed the budgetary documents, so we welcome the initiative of the State Council and the decision-making process. Unfortunately, according to our legislation, the Council of State has no possibility of interfering with the content, but on the basis of legislation it can only allow re-decision on this law. The Council of State drew attention to what many of us had pointed out in the consideration of the budgetary documents for 2014 and 2015, as well as in the supporting document, the law on the implementation of the budget that would undermine those policies. The key problem that we have in the Republic of Slovenia today is that we cannot find a way out of this crisis without taking new and new taxes to put too little effort into the budget spending side, especially in rationalising the country, regulating the country's processes and introducing the necessary reforms, changes that would continue to lead to lower public spending. Since we are not going to do this, we are simply calculating how much money we have to look for in debt markets at the end of the year, and therefore a very important area of indebtedness in this law is presented. It is also very clear from this that what we agreed in spring with the two-thirds majority – that we will spend as much in this country as we can create if we cannot do it today and in the coming years, and that we will settle it with a fiscal rule – we have forgotten and managed quite differently. As much money as we need, we go looking for it in other markets. The Secretary of State has also said that these are only the indicated options and that some of them will be used and some will not be used. That's the problem. Since the adoption of the budget and also the law on the implementation of the budget, options have been used which many say are not appropriate. In the current market, three-year bonds are trying to impose on the country a debt of between 130 million and 150 million overpaid interest within three years of the assessment of financial experts. Today, after colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, we will not be able to speak again, this time everyone, both the coalition and the opposition, and the resolution of the banking system, because all the powers and all the options available in the ZIPRO are given to the Government, the Minister of Finance. I don't think we're talking about a regular year in which it's logical to have options for reprogramming credits, that there's also an option for liquid liquidity. We are talking about a year when we will be in charge of this country for the next decade and we will be paying off these debts for more than a decade. If we are called to something in the National Assembly, we are to talk about these things and to make decisions. To decide that we know what we're doing, why it came from, where the resources will be, how much we'll cost, and so forth. Since we have the kind of ZIPRO that we have, which you are now successfully upgrading with other documents, there are so many more reasons to finally sober up, talk responsiblely to people and tell us how we want to lead this country. With what we do now and what it enables us to do, we will also agree in the National Assembly on the lack of transparency, and in some ways no one will know who is drinking and who is paying. In this country, there were many who drank, ate, and got rich at the expense of the people. Now comes this bill, and we accept documents where we simply Pilately wash our hands and leave it to the government to do so in government rooms and then come through the media to the public. Then we are amazed, appalled and come to a situation like this, as we now see, that even the anti-corruption commission raises its hands and resigns, that it simply cannot go on any longer. I think that what happens to us only at this time, if we limit it now to the time when we adopted ZIPRO, when we adopted two budgets – what happened at that time – should be a serious alarm for all of us. I'm afraid we'll be quiet again, pressing the keys and moving on. This is the way we can no longer manage this country. We therefore support the veto voted by the Council of State, and we will once again vote against such a law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. A warm greeting to all present! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, until the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, we were already defined at the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. We are not changing this, and we will once again support Members and Members, as it is suitable for the implementation planned for the next two years. We are convinced that in preparing the proposal for the so-called technical law in terms of implementation, the Government has considered all possibilities. Such a prepared proposal is sufficient for both domestic and European criteria and for this related balance of public finances. However, let us remind you that overstatements can affect all of us with irritations and greater expenditure. The State Council’s arguments may also mean, in a sense, the fear of an irrational indebtedness of the State, the reduction of funds for the financing of municipalities, the irrational use of real state property. What about the harmonisation of pensions that are so-called frozen by the end of 2015? We could also demand these rights, such as coordination. And no letting go. However, because we are aware of the strict austerity measures in this extremely sensitive and crisis period, we have agreed to do so. What can we expect or receive in return? The answer is that it is necessary to save and save once again in order to finally make the national financial system more efficient and stable. The pensioners too understand the economic and social situation in the country, but – for how long? Let me point out once again that dedicated content, such as pension rights, social and tax rights, is being resolved in this law, but we believe that it does not fall within the scope of this law, since the provisions of these areas are already defined in other laws such as the ZPIZ and the Slovenian State Holding Act. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to stabilising the entire state system and the government proposal being planned within the best possible framework, we will reaffirm this bill's proposal in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representative of the Council of State, Madam Secretary of State! In New Slovenia, we have already opposed the law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015 in the first vote, and we will also oppose it in today's re-decision. The law shows a poor public financial picture of the country over the next two fiscal years. Despite many additional tax and other burdens on the population and the economy, budget expenditure will significantly exceed budgetary revenues over the next two years. A new responsibility will be needed to cover current consumption, and in particular to implement bank recovery, as the final price for these purposes will be known after the results of stress tests have been obtained. We are convinced that the planned debt, as demonstrated by this bill, is almost 5 billion in the following year and 2.7 billion in 2015, together with a permissible additional debt for the purpose of rehabilitation of banks of 2 billion a year will not be sufficient. In the course of the budget debate in New Slovenia, we have pointed out that the new tax and other burdens are not the solution to the exit from the economic and financial crisis. The government should address the expenditure sides of the budget through systemic measures, and the current government has done virtually nothing so far. With the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the Government limits budgetary expenditure for public servants' salaries, pensions and social transfers. This preserves the state of public financial expenditure at the current level. However, the state of expenditure is not sustainable in the long run, and any postponement of systemic measures means an extension of the public financial crisis or agony. The increase in the value added tax rate at an overall rate of 22% and at a reduced level of 9,5 %, which is maintained by the current proposal for a further two fiscal years, will result in further declines in private consumption, have an important impact on lower economic activity and contribute to the further fall in gross social product. In Novi Slovenija we are concerned about the consequences of the measures that interfere with the financial situation of municipalities in the financial years 2014 and 2015, in particular small or rural municipalities. The first negative measure is the average, which remains at the level of this year for 2014, namely EUR 536 and decreases to EUR 525 for 2015. Many congregations will no longer be able to cover the expenses imposed on them by law as a result of this reduction of income. Funds for co-financing the investments of municipalities are also falling, from 4% to 2% of the total appropriate consumption of municipalities. The government in this regard forgets that up to 70% of all investments in the country, which are mostly co-financed by European Union funds, are being made through municipalities today. Reducing funds for these purposes also means less investment in the country and consequently a reduction in economic activity, particularly for smaller economic operators that are local investors. Such measures also involve redistribution of funds between municipalities, taking funds and giving them to larger municipalities. In Novi Slovenija we strongly oppose such measures. As already mentioned above, Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is a technical law and, as such, enables the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget, which follows from Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides in the first paragraph that the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia must be in line with the State budget adopted. In view of the legal nature of the state budget adopted, as in the case of a change in the country's budget adopted, it is necessary to amend the law governing the implementation of the budget, since the ordinary law regulates the extent of the State's indebtedness, the extent of the State's guarantees and the extent of the public sector's indebtedness at the level of the State. The main solutions to the proposed law on the implementation of budgets are: the extent of government debt and the permitted guarantees, the extent of public sector debt at national level. It establishes the specific powers of the Government and the Minister of Finance for the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budget, which are important for the government's indebtedness under the fiscal stabiliser. It sets out the extent of the obligations that individual users may assume during the current year and the payment shall be due next year. It includes measures to consolidate public finances, measures to reduce public spending. I must mention here that the measures governing expenditure are certainly not welcome. No one is satisfied if something is taken, is saved, and so are we. However, the measures stem from commitments under the Stability Programme and the implementation of the fiscal rule. However, the general and public financial situation of the State should also be taken into account. The Government shall pursue the objectives of the medium-term balance of the budget and shall respect the European Commission's requirements regarding the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. I would also like to point out that Slovenia has forwarded the draft adopted budget to the European Commission for assessment and that the European Commission has also assessed that the draft budgets for the next two years are in line with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. The measures provided for by the law on the implementation of the budget are not welcome and are necessary. The Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 also lays down the legal basis which allows municipalities to obtain all the appropriate funding for the ongoing projects, since in this case this is not an excessive intervention by the State into the expected rights and a balance is established between the value of the objectives and the weight of the measures. These measures are expenditure on co-financing investments to municipalities, eliminating the valorisation of pensions and social transfers, and reducing public sector employees. We are aware that the adoption of the two budgets without the adoption of the law governing their implementation is only half of the work done in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will be renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law on the implementation of the budget should be a technical law, the basis for which the budget can be implemented at all, but it has become everything over the years. Thus, it no longer regulates the procedure for the implementation of the budget, but also deals with a number of important substantive issues, as well as all that governments have forgotten to settle in any other law. Thus, for example, we also have an RTV subscription in ZIPRO and other content which I do not belong to. It is important to be very careful when it comes to individual provisions, for the applicants often hide things in this law that they would like to be seen that no one notices them. The same applies to this law, which monitors the 2014 and 2015 budget. With regard to the content itself, I would like to draw particular attention to 6 key points. Firstly, ZIPro allows the country to be in charge of almost €10 billion in next year, with an additional €600 billion in guarantees. However, irrespective of this exceptional possibility of high indebtedness, I would just like to remind you that we have a law on the table today and that we will all decide together that our debt will be even higher, let us say, once more higher than this law provides. Secondly, employment in the public sector and salaries of public servants are regulated in the law slightly differently than we are used to. ZIPro allows the funds available to budget users for material costs to be redistributed also for salaries, and these solutions reflect the powerlessness of the government's negotiations with public sector unions. Thirdly, the law significantly interferes with the financing of municipalities and reduces their funds for co-financing investments. The weakest areas of Slovenia will be the most affected. Contrary to the overall decline, however, is the position of the Ljubljana Municipality relatively improving – fair or unfair? Fourthly, the Income Act has frozen the coordination of the income scale and facilitations, which means higher taxation of all groups of people. However, the law on the implementation of budgets further freezes the coordination of pensions and social transfers over the next two years. In doing so, let me remind you that this at the annual level represents at least EUR 50 million less for pensions. Fifthly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also oppose the proposed new arrangement for the provision of funds for the operation of the pension fund. We agree that part of the assets for the sale of state property are intended for pensions, as we have also proposed such an arrangement, and that we have all legislated it together in the National Assembly with the Slovenian State Holding Act. The content is more than properly adjusted. In addition to the EUR 50 million provided by Kad for pensions, the current regime provides an additional 10% of the purchase made by the Slovenian State Holding on the sale of its capital investments. Why regulate matters differently by this law? Finally, we are also strongly opposed to the possibility that funds will be allocated from the sale of enterprises to an enterprise fund, which is further distributed through various subsidies to selected companies. The funds from the sale of investments are primarily intended for repayment of debts. It is unacceptable that, on the one hand, we owe ourselves abundantly and extremely expensively, and on the other hand, this means that could be used to repay our debt and to finance our spending, we are committed to subsidising and lending various companies, for which we also have experience in the near past, how such subsidisation can [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] For all these reasons, we will not support this law in the current part of the procedure in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Respected and respected! Social Democrats understand that the ideas, views, views on how Slovenia is taking its steps to begin the path of recovery, recovery from the crisis, restoring the confidence of its people in its institutions and also the international environment in this country are different. A number of discussions could be heard before concrete measures were taken. The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 also contains solutions that are controversial, but after discussion the ruling majority must take responsibility and take a decision. This is also what this coalition has done, and the Social Democrats are insisting on coordinated and accepted solutions, also because the law on budget implementation is an essential part of the budget package, which has received a positive assessment by the European Commission and which, after a vote of confidence, has begun to counter different assessments of the international financial press and also of the international financial institutions towards Slovenia. There is confidence that Slovenia will be able to cope with the crisis on its own and that it will be able to ensure its financial sovereignty, resolve the problems we have in public finances and the problems we have in the banking system and the debt of the economy through careful selection of tools and measures. With the confirmation of this law, we want to affirm this confidence, but we want this confidence to be broader, that in the face of individual non-conclusions, which can always be legitimate and justified, we do not lose the optimism necessary for the country to recover. It is clear that in these days, these weeks and these months, in the most sensitive time, we will not be able to overcome this crisis by surrendering to defeat and by allowing pessimism and despair to take over our actions and hopes. That is why we want this common spirit, which is aware that stability and perseverance are needed in Slovenia on the road map, the path that we have also written in the relevant documents and presented them as our commitments to the European Commission, and that they must be respected and implemented. This is a prerequisite for Slovenia continuing its path to recovery, and by the way, today the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia has already published some encouraging information on the fall in the number of unemployed. Social Democrats also want to draw on this individual information the courage, hope and optimism that we are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Before the decision was taken, there was a desire to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I would like to explain my voice once again because we have been joined by Members and Members who were not with us before, so they will know why we will vote against this law in the SDS Group. We believe that many of the solutions contained in this law are not only unacceptable but harmful for the further development of Slovenia. The first is that this law allows for an almost 10 billion debt. That is not all, considering that there is another law on the table today that can practically double that number. Once again, 10 billion debts are foreseen in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. On the other hand, there is an opportunity for funds to be redeployed from material costs to the salaries of public servants. It's a unique. This should never have been done in the past, and this is the result of the negotiating capabilities of this government in cooperation with the unions. The next such matter, which is very disturbing to us, is that these interventions interfere with the financing of municipalities and at the expense of the City Municipality of Ljubljana, which is preferred, harms all others outside the city municipality. Then it is extremely controversial, perhaps not all of us have been sufficiently alerted to take pensioners and those who receive social transfers by this law for 2014 and more for 2015. More than €50 million will be damaged by pension registers. In other words, the pensions of Slovenian pensioners and pensioners will be lower by more than €50 million next year due to this law. On the other hand, with this horrendous debt, a 10-billion-dollar debt, the law allows for the possibility that these funds, instead of paying and repaying old debts, will be allocated to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which will be able to finance projects of certain specially selected companies that will run for subsidies. Such uncontrolled and improper spending of money, which should be intended to pay off debts, is strongly condemned. We will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision-making decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. More explanations for the voice? Given the interest expressed in explaining your vote on your own behalf, I suggest you apply for an explanation. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I object to the adoption of this law, although it is of a technical nature, since this law regulates the material affairs of the State, and it is significantly more than it could possibly be. Indeed, the debt provided for under this law, which means that the government will be able to charge almost 10 billion under this law, given that the state’s $600 guarantee will be cashed — that is unacceptable, especially because we do not know what this money will be spent on. In addition, there are no restrictions in this area, particularly as to how the Ministry of Finance may be in charge of whether it will be in debt in the open market, or whether it will be in debt with certain tenderers coming to Župančičeva 3 to agree on debt at enormous interest rates. These enormous interest rates were 4,84% at the last debt, which is far more than the interest rates at which Romania, Hungary, Croatia and so on are indebted. Such indebtedness is inappropriate and harmful for the development of Slovenia itself. Such indebtedness, especially because it is mainly spent on current consumption or repayment of loans already accepted, is damaging not only to the present generation but also to future generations. This is why this law is unacceptable, because of such substantive solutions, and I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u114	Thank you. I will also vote against this law, for it is obvious that the calvary for the congregations under this government is continuing. At least the municipalities are fortunate that they have not yet been wiped out, although the government, by this law as well as by the previous beating of the good congregation, is forcing them to die at meals. It is unacceptable that the Government reduces the average of municipalities as a cover act by passing the Law on the financing of municipalities, without negotiating with the Community of Slovene municipalities and with the Association of Slovene municipalities. Outside the law and past the agreement, it lowers the average. It is most catastrophic, however, that funds for co-financing investments for half are being cut down, which means that good municipalities will be left without investment cycles and European funds will be at risk. It would be logical for all those working in local self-government to vote against this law, but only the saints or members of the Municipality of Ljubljana would be able to press "for" in this law today. It is even more unacceptable for a country to accept additional debt through such a door. To conclude, all those who speak so much about social sensitivity: the coordination of pensions and social transfers will be frozen — so much about how this government and this national assembly or their majority are social. The reason why I'm against it is more than enough, so I'm against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u115	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting how easy it is to examine the State Council’s arguments. I think the representative of the Council of State has made some strong arguments that speak of reflection. But it doesn't hurt us, as it has done for 20 years. Why would we do anything different? We're going to crash and fall into it. I believe that it is permissible for practically unlimited debt, a great trap and temptation, not for this minister or this government, but for everyone. This should not be confirmed by Parliament. And the other thing is, why did we even adopt a fiscal rule if we didn't stick to it? We had a half-year or three-quarters bile debate on something that we're destroying with this budget. The path to prosperity, writes Axel Kaiser in the book Path to Fall, is through saving and creating. This budget does not in any way show savings because it does nothing on structural changes and does not promote creation. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u117	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u118	I will vote against this law because it means centralisation of the country, because it favours larger municipalities, especially Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and others. The effect of three things, which are the Real Estate Tax Act, the new Law on Community Financing and the halving of funds for investments to municipalities from 4% to 2% of the eligible expenditure, means a reduction in funds for investments to a third of the available so far. Thus – I have done one analysis for South-Eastern Slovenia – all of these effects will show municipalities, say Chernobyl almost 10% less appropriate consumption, Kočevje 13%, Osilnica almost 30%, Church 28%, while Ljubljana will gain 0.38%, Maribor 2.6%, Celje 2.7% and Velenje 3.02%. This means that those municipalities that have a more densely populated population will receive significantly more under the new financing law, and those rural municipalities that have a number of cohesion projects in implementation will significantly less. I wonder how the municipalities that have adopted budgets for 2014 which have the resources allocated by cohesion projects will be able to carry out these projects, and whether this will not prevent European funds from being drawn up that need to be exhausted. That's why this law [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanations of vote, so I suggest you apply for an explanation. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I have not supported the budget and I cannot support the law that operationalises the implementation of the budget. There's a whole series of illogicalities in this set. In the budget decisions, which form an integral part of the budget, we have decided whether a public institution will acquire or sell a washing machine worth 100 or 200 or 500 euros, and in this law it is possible for an uncontrolled debt of the State without the National Assembly having an insight into how much, under what conditions, and for what purpose. A completely unbalanced approach! The second reason why I'm going against it is that it's taken long and fast, especially across the border, and that's where it hits the periphery, where farmers and weaker social groups are affected, who have no chance of in any way presenting their problem and excessive burden to the public at all. But if so, it is badly summarised because it is not a privileged group but a privileged group. I will also oppose because our proposals for amendments have not been adopted for individual solutions, particularly in the field of infrastructure. The part of the country I come from is very, very, very hurt. We do not have adequate access to Ljubljana, we do not have an adequate railway connection from Kočev to Ljubljana. Both proposals were rejected by the Coalition, and there is no reason for him to vote in any other way than I said. I'm also against this because the developmental part of this area that I come from is not being dedicated at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the agenda, it's an announcement from the Prime Minister of the government about the Magi's withdrawal. The headquarters of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek became the president of the National Assembly by letter 26. 11. 2013 notified that it is mag. Stanko Stepišnik resigned as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. On this occasion, I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Stan Stepišnik for reasons of resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In this short time, I'd like to explain my resignation. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we set ourselves the following objectives: political, financial, tax stability – what the government has set for us to help, and I think the government has achieved this to some extent and at the Ministry itself competitively financing the economy. When we examined more than 3 000 500 companies in Slovenia after nine financial indicators – employment and so on represents about 75% of the Slovenian economy – the following was found. Slovenian companies have major lending problems. Slovenian companies have major problems with the corresponding capital structure. Slovenian companies have a very big problem – this will prove to be true in the coming years – with the average age of employees. In all good and large export companies, the average age of employees is up to 50 years. You know that somewhere the average age of employees is around 35 years, it takes to absorb all knowledge and introduce new technologies, information and communication technologies. This is due to the fact that new jobs are not opening up and that young people remain in the employment facility, where there are almost 30,000 of them already, and companies have soft forgiveness, especially for the elderly. We have set three long-term systemic measures to mitigate these problems. We tried to build one platform that would employ up to 110 000 people in the next few years. Let's go in one order. The first systemic measure we have developed in cooperation with the SID Bank is to allow micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to credit development and research, technological incentives, reverse funds to lend EUR 500 million with a cheap loan of 2% to 3%, including a long-term 10-year moratorium of two years. Since there are a lot of short-term loans, these 500 million will double in 10 years so that one billion will be available to the economy for lending micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Since independent entrepreneurs were released, another systemic measure was taken. As you know, Ljubljana airport did not invest. There is €17.5 million left, and we have asked the European Commission, Commissioner, if we can transfer money from this operational programme to entrepreneurship. He allowed us, so a new financial engineering is opened for lending to independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which will be available in December. The second system measure is aimed at improving the capital structure of enterprises. All the good, competitive Slovenian companies with export orientation have human resources, development and research potential, and since 1990 they have been owned as was the case in Slovenia, because there was not enough equity, but primarily debt capital, they have entered a large liquidity trap. Today, these 30% of the companies we have looked at in the Slovenian economic system have enormous difficulties in providing liquidity, money for turnover and repaying credit. As you know, last year and this year, banks have withdrawn almost 2 billion and a half dollars from the economy because they have to repay their loans abroad, which means that they do not get extended short-term loans into long-term loans or that they have to renew these short-term loans. Interest is also increasing in the recovery process, so that the liquidity problem in companies is even greater. This liquidity problem needs to be addressed together with bank liquidity. If we solve only banks and economic situations not with capital adequacy, then we will have extremely serious problems because companies will simply shut us down. With this financial engineering, as I said before, some 30,000 jobs in Slovenia would be preserved or restored. However, the third long-term systemic measure is primarily to strengthen the added value in companies. Slovenia has 37 000 Euros of added value per employee and Austria has 96 000 Euros per employee. If we do not catch up with European countries, there will also be no greater influx into the budget. You know that the biggest inflow is the value added tax, which is 3 billion at 9.6 billion in the state budget. If we do not work on the fact that value added tax will be much higher in the budget or that it will be more added value in companies, then we may simply lose the competitiveness of these companies. What have we done to increase added value in companies? At least The Rules of Procedure do not limit time, sir. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Mr Stepišnik, I suggest you come to a conclusion and close the debate because time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I will. In the third system measure, we have called for a lot of calls for development and research, for the purchase of new technologies, for an efficient and rapid transfer of knowledge to final products, which I think should be the next activity in Slovenia, and for guarantees, interest rate subsidies and employment of EUR 300 million. More than €800 million has been announced from European funds [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Mr Stepišnik, I ask you to conclude your position on the resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Good. You know, it's very hard to say for eight months of work in five minutes. I would just like to say that one very strong platform has been made for €3 billion to support the competitiveness of the economy. I wanted to point that out in public. This money will have to be taken care of in order to create new jobs, maintain new jobs and increase the added value so that it does not explode, as it did in the past tense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you, too, Minister, for your explanation. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Mr. Secretary of State, stand down! The agenda item is the Notice from the President of the Government on the withdrawal of mags. Stanka Stepišnika, Minister of Economic Development and Technology. In five minutes, there was not a single word about this agenda item. The minister said everything about why he shouldn't have resigned. He listed all the reasons for what was done, and neither did he say why he chose to resign. This is not in his written statement to the President of the Government, which is not in the document sent by the President of the Government, and this was not in the personal explanation of the gentleman who decided to take this bold step. Mr President, because a procedural question has also been raised earlier regarding the intervention in explaining the voice of my fellow Members – what Mr Gorenak said, he probably does. In this case, you have not, in a single word, warned the Minister that he was not talking about the agenda and that he was not talking about the reasons why this had happened. Not a word! I suggest that you are tolerant, patient and so forth to all others who will come to explain their personal decision in the National Assembly. However, the measures, Mr Minister, which you listed — for all that you said — were an opportunity when you presented the budget, in that introductory part — that could be done by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, and that was also an opportunity when we came to the consideration of the budget and both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance had a re-introductory explanation. I think it would be very good to have what you've just said at the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Mr Tanko, if I may remind you, you have made a procedural request to remind me of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. The same goes for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u130	This is the duality we're talking about all the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Please respect the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u132	which Mr. Gorenak has already warned about. [[...]] Where applicable for all [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u133	You have no argument. Your procedural proposal was to warn – otherwise I can no longer – gentlemen to explain why he resigned.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u134	That's the first part. The other part is this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u135	There's nothing else to do, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u136	Of course it is. To reach out to everyone and treat everything equally. It is unacceptable for the President of the National Assembly to look at some who discuss in the National Assembly with one eye and one tolerance area and the other with another. Among other things, the Minister overstepped his time for two minutes. You have considered this very tolerantly, and I suggest that in other cases you are similarly tolerant and tolerant of speakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. If I can stress again before I give the floor forward for a procedural proposal. There is an essential difference between explanations of vote, since the Rules of Procedure make clear what the speaker may be talking about. With regard to the Minister's resignation, there is a completely different dimension, and the Minister has asked to be given the floor to explain the reasons for his resignation. As you've noticed, he's running out of time to explain. I expected him to say more clearly why he was resigning, but apparently there was too little time available, so I didn’t interrupt. Once again, we cannot compare explanations of vote with my warnings if the rules of procedure are violated or if the reasons for the Minister's resignation are explained. Mr Möderndorfer has a procedural approach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u138	Dear President! Out of respect for the National Assembly and the confusion I've been hearing here for some time now, I'm going to give up procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u139	He had some magic on his hands. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm thinking next. Do you think, colleagues and colleagues, that it is right for the minister who is leaving the post – let us give the reasons – to give 5 minutes to tell him what he has done. I'd probably come up with a reason why. Come on, please, let's try to be human. That's not the same as explaining a voice. Let's give any minister a time when he's leaving or when he's coming, at least half an hour or some normal time, not five minutes. I think we've crossed all the limits of one reasonable human behavior. Let's give the Minister time to tell him what he wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Thanks, mag. Ivan Vogrin. The time set for the Minister to present the reasons for the resignation was 5 minutes, in accordance with current practice in such cases. So this is the way we introduced it, and in this case it was. We're moving on to the agenda. As regards the derogation, the National Assembly finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is a mag. Stanu Stepišnik has ceased to serve as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Stanko Stepišnik shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Allow me to be mags on this occasion. I thank Stan Stepišnik for his cooperation with the National Assembly, and I wish him good work in the future. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is an announcement from the Prime Minister of the Government about the retirement of a bunch of gantars from the function of the Minister of Health. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek became the president of the National Assembly by letter 26. 11. She announced that Tomaž Gantar had resigned from his post as Minister of Health. Minister Tomaž Gantar also expressed interest in giving reasons for his decision. You have a chance to talk to the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary. Time is available for five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia has a good health system. It is still good, despite saving, despite the severe economic crisis we are in, and despite the fact that we are spending half the money on health care than the countries we like to compare ourselves with. It is, however, a fact that we are at a crossroads, how we will continue to defend and achieve that there will be solidarity, public or other interests in the background. All countries are struggling with rising costs in the health sector as a result of the ageing population, resulting in higher costs for the treatment of chronic non-communicable diseases, the introduction of new technologies, new medicines and the like. On the other hand, we also have problems in Slovenian health care, which on the one hand reflect the situation in society, as well as the issue of corruption, and on the other hand insufficient adjustment to the progress of medicine. We are therefore also talking about the necessary reforms and the necessary new legislation in this area. However, it is a fact that I personally believe that if we want to maintain a high level of rights, quality and modern health care, a wide range of accessible health care, then we need anomalies in this system despite additional money. This is one of the divergent points in our views also within the coalition itself. In healthcare, there are very different interests, very different views, very different ideas, and these are probably the reasons why health reform has not been adopted in at least 10 years, which would be widely acceptable. Obviously, the ministers in front of me were simply politically weak, with little support to carry out these reforms. I'm judging the same thing myself. I think that if this decision is now taken seriously to become a health priority for these governments too, there is a need for clear agreement at the level of the party presidents, the Prime Minister, if possible also for the cooperation and consensus of the opposition parties, given that this is a matter of concern to all of us. My resignation is linked to different aspects of health care, to the organisation of work in health care and, above all, to different aspects of funding, as already mentioned. We are fundamentally different in that I am advocating the additional resources that health care needs. In such circumstances, I do not think that I can carry out reform and that the only right thing to do is to step down. My resignation is not due to any pressure, it is not because I no longer have the energy or that it may be difficult to be a minister at these times, as the president of the National Gazette said. I think it's right and that thinking about this problem might be different than it has been before. On this occasion, I would first like to thank my client, who supported me and proposed me. I'd like to thank my colleagues, the president of the government. I would also like to thank all of you, as well as the colleagues in the previous government, in which we participated and also took the first steps and not least carried out the reform of public health. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Thank you, too, Minister, for your words. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, I thank the Minister of Health so far for his work and for his active and good cooperation. Now, I propose, procedurally, that we proceed with the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u145	That just proves how resourceful we are in the National Assembly. Let's move on to the point. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Tomaž Gantaru has ceased to serve as Minister of Health. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Tomaž Gantar shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me also thank Tomaž Gantar, on behalf of the National Assembly, for his cooperation with the National Assembly and wish him the best in his future work. Your Honor, may I have your attention? I am adjourning the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly so that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy can consider agenda 5 and prepare a report for the meeting of the National Assembly. Members and members of the committee shall be informed that the meeting of the committee will be held at 2.35 p.m. in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. The meeting of the National Assembly will continue for one hour following the adjournment of the meeting of the Committee. The heads of the parliamentary groups will be informed of the exact start of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government and other present, welcome! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to five. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the law on public finances, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the beginning of December, there will be an independent review of the quality of banks' assets and burden tests for a representative part of the financial system, an important element in the process of strengthening and restructuring the financial sector and a precondition for the implementation of measures under the law governing measures to strengthen the stability of banks. Notwithstanding the fact that the results are not yet known at this time, appropriate legal bases should be drawn up in advance to allow immediate implementation of the measures if bank assessments require such behaviour. It is necessary to provide transparent information on the capital needs of banks for the tests carried out immediately after the results have been published to the public and potential investors, while at the same time providing information on immediate measures under the government's authority. For that reason, appropriate legal bases should be drawn up to allow for the immediate recapitalisation of banks, as this is one of the key measures for the further restructuring of the financial sector. The exact scope of the recapitalisation will be known only after the results of the review of banking institutions have been published. At the moment, it is not possible to assess whether the funds provided in the budget will be sufficient for these needs or not. The proposed law therefore allows for the overrun of spending rights for these purposes under the B balance set by the current budget, but the actual consumption will still be recorded under the State budget. It should be pointed out that the proposed provision of the law does not allow for additional State indebtedness and that the scope of the debt remains within the framework set out in Article 39 of the Law on the implementation of the budget and Article 81 of the Law on Public Finance. This means that the State may only be liable to the amounts set out in the annual budget implementation law for the measures relating to the rehabilitation of banks and that it may also use the State budget’s free money. The decision on the recapitalisation of each financial institution will be taken by the government on a proposal from the finance minister. The decision can only be taken as an integral part of the measures to be introduced in connection with this financial institution under the law governing the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the stability of banks. Therefore, the decision will be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this law. The initiative for action is presented by Banka Slovenije. The Interdepartmental Working Group assesses this initiative and proposes action to the Minister of Finance, which will continue to be taken by the Government. The financial institutions receiving the aid will be subject to restrictions, as laid down by the law on measures to increase the stability of banks. In view of the need to act on the rehabilitation of the banking system in the country and in view of the circumstances I have put forward in the introduction, I propose that the completion of the Public Finance Act be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matevež Frangež, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u149	Respected and respected! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and has no comments. Two amendments were tabled within the time limit for the proposed law, namely Article 1 of the SDS Parliamentary Group amendment and Article 1 of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary, like a few moments ago, provided a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. She said that the bill provided the necessary legal basis to ensure the stability of the financial system, thus ensuring that banks could recapitalise quickly and thereby correct their capital adequacy when the stress tests of the banks were published. The bill does not allow for additional indebtedness, but allows for the recapitalisation to a greater extent than has been established so far. It also presented the maximum possible scope of recapitalisation under €4.7 billion, allowing for the implementation of the budget law now in force. The real amount for recapitalisation will be known with the results of the stress tests carried out by banks. In the debate, members of opposition parties highlighted in particular the lack of the role of the National Assembly in the recapitalisation decision-making process, as the role of the National Assembly in this process is not foreseen, the issue of various possible scenarios with the results of bank stress tests, the expectation that there will be no additional debt for the purposes of recapitalisation, the need to present a comprehensive plan for all capital injections from the recapitalisation of banks and the question of concrete financial implications and the precise assessment of the assets in the possible recapitalisation. Meanwhile, members of the coalition groups felt that Slovenia had so far delayed the implementation of measures to stabilise the banking system, that decisions should be taken quickly and prepared for the various possible scenarios that would bring the results of the stress tests. In the debate, the Secretary of State also answered fully the questions raised, particularly by the opposition. After discussion, the Committee identified itself to the two proposed amendments and did not accept them. This was followed by a forecast of obstruction in the further consideration of the bill by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and the Slovenian People's Party. The Committee therefore voted on all the articles together and therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Finance should be adopted in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u151	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! We've got the Public Finance Act ahead of us. As we have been doing lately, we are accepting such a change of law by emergency procedure. The government has adopted the amendment of this law at a correspondence meeting two days ago, today it is being adopted in the National Assembly. Both the Chairman of the Committee and the Secretary of State spoke about the content. Let me introduce her a little differently. Today, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament, elected representatives of the people, we renounce any part of the difficult process of rehabilitation of Slovenian banks. The government has decided to receive a mandate from us today, to have unconditionally the means, to unconditionally decide which bad claims are transferred from banks to taxpayers' burdens, and to make a commitment in future with resources in accordance with the adopted budget and with the ZIPRO. In our deep conviction, it is a re-democratic deficit and a withdrawal of Parliament's competence in the key task that we have, colleagues and colleagues in this mandate – to speak and deposit on behalf of people also bank recovery accounts. We do not understand why Members and Members are denied this opportunity to draw up, on the basis of the conclusions of the stress tests, where Slovenia and Slovenia and our banking system and the state of the country have prepared a comprehensive programme, which will contain on one side of the claim, transferred from the banking system and decontaminated to the burden of the country, as well as the resources and to what extent we will pay it today from the budget, and our children in the coming years and decades. We are talking about €5 billion, we are talking about almost the entire budget, and we are talking about that, on the other hand, the debt can be enormously costly. The year we are coming is the year when Slovenia – which we are still guessing, because we do not know, but we are also taking the last documents in Parliament – is estimated to owe between €5 billion and €10 billion. It's a very big difference, at what cost we're going to be in debt. 1% of this burden represents a 100 million euro difference. At least 2% is the difference between these interest rates and those that could be obtained, if they were a little more robust, they might also look in the mirror and adopt some mechanism to rescue countries in difficulty, which means that they would save 200 million euros. This is as much at the annual level as we have accepted today or you have definitively confirmed with the property tax. That's what we're talking about. We cannot, therefore, agree that this is how transparency is taken, and we point out that there will be a very big problem further when it comes to explaining why 200, 300, 400, 500 million euros more will have to be paid next year or year. It is indeed such a large amount that we can peacefully say that if we are on an annual level – now we are playing with whether we will pay more or less interest for a year's property tax amount, but we are talking about the whole amount, I don't know, there from 25 to 30 years' real estate tax. This is the amount we are talking about at this point. And you, respected colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, who will obviously support this law in an urgent way, as did the Committee on Finance, estimate that Parliament is no longer needed in this matter. We strongly oppose this in the Slovenian People's Party. We believe that this is also one of those swamps, as the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission has said today, which announces his resignation, where we will leave it up to some of the corridors to decide things that are crucial to our development, to our trust in the rule of law, to our trust and faith in Slovenia. I don't understand why the coalition does this. If the coalition is also here, and this will be visible from the parliamentary positions, uncompromisingly, following an urgent procedure, this law will be supported, we will leave the vote in the Slovenian People's Party and leave this responsibility to Members and Members of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We have before us a government proposal to supplement the Public Finance Act, which brings adjustments to the state budget in view of the unforeseeable amounts of bank recapitalisation so far. The fact is that we have confirmed the 2014 and 2015 budget and EUR 1.2 billion is provided for the recapitalisation of financial institutions. The Ministry of Finance ensures that an additional 200 million funds can be provided through redeployments, i.e. a total of 400 billion. The bill we are adopting today calls for an additional billion euros. This billion will be sufficient to implement possible measures that could affect us as a result of the results of the review of the quality of banks' assets and burden tests. We are talking about 2.4 billion euros in total. At the same time, we are faced with data or estimates that there will be a need to recapitalise EUR 1.5 billion for the New Ljubljana Bank and 4.2 billion for the entire banking system. Let me remind you that we have reaffirmed the law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years. This includes a provision regarding the extent of the country's indebtedness, which states that, in accordance with the law governing measures to strengthen the stability of banks, the State may additionally be in charge of financing measures to strengthen the stability of banks up to a maximum of EUR 2 billion. More than once, it has been promised and recorded that this time the recapitalisation is the last. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we ask whether this is true or how many times. We hope that today's amendment of the law will finally end this story of recapitalisation of the financial or banking system with full procedural and material law. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill because we believe that the solutions proposed are strategically important for the economy and the rehabilitation of the banking system. At the same time, we note that in the future it will be imperative to consider a strategic partner of Slovenian banks that would help to recover our banking system. Finally, let me repeat our repeated expectations that legal proceedings on the liability and disclosure of those responsible for the resulting banking situation resulting from financial fraud in the country should finally be initiated. Stress tests must also reveal the names and surnames of all at the time of the creation of the bank hole participating in the previous years.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister Dr. Chufer and his associates! Members of New Slovenia would first like to protest against the very way of enacting laws, as we are witnessing today. Let me tell the public that the new Law on Public Finance, which we are currently considering, was sent to the National Assembly yesterday afternoon, and today it is already on the agenda of an extraordinary meeting, and as we have experience, the coalition will also accept it today. True, the coalition is homogeneous, it's compact, at least that's what it looks like. Ours was also compact, with the difference that ours made good decisions for this country. Maybe there's another way to enact this law in government. This novel was adopted yesterday at the 72nd letter meeting of the Government. That's probably because the president wasn't home. In such a short time and at all other meetings of the committees and today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, it is simply not possible to fail to review the content of the law or prepare for discussion. The government coalition is forcing us to feel that we are living in an emergency and that it does not allow us a normal part of the Members. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me remind you of last year when we all jointly created the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. At that time, our coalition offered the opposition a hand. Do you remember the coordination during parliamentary holidays? At that time, we thought that we had actually reached a common goal, even though we had a knife in our back by the end of the year. But the law is still being implemented. We also now expected this government to offer the current opposition a hand. I'm afraid that's not the case. 143. Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, but subject to the conditions expressly stated. Let's do it again. Laws shall be adopted by emergency procedure only if the adoption of legislation is necessary for the sake of the security and defence of the State, for the purpose of remedying the consequences of natural disasters and in order to prevent severe remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. A special business requirement is that the government must specifically justify the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. There is no concrete justification for the adoption of this law in writing at all. Amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act will have a major impact on the state budget or, rather, on the burden of taxpayers of the current and subsequent generations with State debt for the rehabilitation and recapitalisation of banks. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the resolution of the banking system with tax money cannot be avoided. Last but not least, the European Central Bank expects us to do so. We demand and expect, however, that the measures for the resolution of the banking system be implemented in a transparent manner and in a pre-planned manner. The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, or under the name we know better, the law on the so-called bad bank is, in conjunction with the adopted budgets for 2014 and 2015, the appropriate legal basis for a comprehensive resolution of the banking system, which accurately prescribes the process of transferring bad claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We don't need any new rules for these steps. However, the substance of the amendments under consideration today and the addition of the Public Finance Act is to lay down the legal basis for the circuits so that the amount and purpose of the budget can be covered in the resolution of the banking system, since the State Assembly is fully excluded from the decision-making process on the use of these funds. The power to decide on the use of budgetary resources and the amount of funds to recapitalise banks is fully transferred to the government. This is a way in which we strongly oppose New Slovenia and we do not want to participate in deciding on such a proposal for legislative change. This is a grave intervention in parliamentary democracy or just the end of it. This reduces confidence, which is so important in the banking system and in the resolution system of Slovenian banks. Actually, trust is gone. For this and other reasons, Members of the New Slovenia Group will be obstructed by the meeting of the National Assembly when voting on this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u157	Madam President, Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! Today, it has already been explained why it is necessary to supplement the Public Finance Act. In an understandable way, the reasons that required action through complementarity have been explained to us, as we have heard several times today, the system law, the Public Finance Act. However, allow me to summarize these reasons myself. The article ahead of us makes it possible for measures to ensure financial stability to be actually implemented. It is known that the results of the burden tests and the results of the quality reviews of banks’ assets are expected in the short term. We know that the European Commission has asked for these tests to be carried out again, even by the European Commission, despite the fact that the Bank of Slovenia published the first results on the Bank's capital adequacy in early 2013. To this end, the Slovenian government allocated €1.2 billion within the budget for the immediate recapitalisation of the Slovenian banking system. This number, I would stress, is not just meant to be or over the thumb. In the first half of this year, Banka Slovenije submitted the number after the checks she carried out. We know that for this year we planned to transfer the bad claims of banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the DUTB or the bad bank, but due to the requirement for a reassessment of the capital adequacy and quality of banks' assets, we had to wait for this action. And we'll wait until the results are known. As I have already mentioned, €1.2 billion is allocated to the rapid action budget. An additional 200 million euros can be redeployed. In order to recapitalise banks quickly, an appropriate legal basis must be provided. This foundation is on our bench today. If I may, I would also mention that such a solution as is currently proposed in this law is not new. In a mutual, mutual agreement, such a solution was proposed by the first Janša government in departure and on her behalf by Dr. Andrej Bajuk, and adopted by the Government of Pahor in formation and on her behalf by Dr. France Križanič. Even the indications that such a solution will render the country uncontrollable and untransparently indebted are not true. You know that all of you who have read Section 81b of the Public Finance Act, paragraph 4 of this Act. The State may, for measures related to the rehabilitation of banks, be liable to the amounts set out in the annual law on the implementation of ZIPRS budgets and may use the State budget’s free resources. In order to implement the measures, the state cannot delegate over to ZIPRS the framework adopted, according to the local authorities, the gabarites would say. Dear Members, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the Public Finance Act as a result of all the above-mentioned additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u158	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! An exceptional situation in the banking field is being introduced by this law. It starts intransparency and begins by holding the Ministry of Finance in the hands of scissors and canvas and recapitalising Slovenian banks – state banks, private banks, in short, those reviewed by the European Central Bank, the European Commission and other international organisations today. This law was adopted following an extremely fast procedure, within a few days, and provides a formal legal opportunity for the state to recapitalise the Slovenian banks. In doing so, the Slovenian Democratic Party stressed that it is necessary to resolve the problem of Slovenian banks as soon as possible, but in a transparent way and so that a certain role is played by the National Assembly, not only by the Government, but also by the National Assembly. It therefore proposed an amendment, namely that the Government submit a plan for the rehabilitation of banks, the recapitalisation of banks to the National Assembly and that the National Assembly decide on this. Today, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Secretary of State strongly rejected such a way to rescue banks, stressing that this would delay the whole process, that this is not necessary and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the National Assembly that decides on state finances. The National Assembly is the one that decides on the taxes paid by taxpayers and with which the Slovenian banking system will be cured – not only the Slovenian banking system, but all the errors that this banking system has made in recent years. It is therefore unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party to reject such an amendment, which gives a certain role to the National Assembly. This is an attack on democracy, and we rightly believe that something is hiding behind such a solution. There are people hiding, there are people hiding loans, there are people hiding who have been lending bad loans in one way or another. This is why such a law is unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party. We agree that the banking system needs to be repaired, but in a transparent way and in a way that the National Assembly will also play a role in this. This raises the question of why, ladies and gentlemen, the bank is not being recapitalised through the Bank's Claims Management Company. This allows for the existing legislation, which already allows for the law governing the Banks Claims Management Company. Today, there was no substantive answer to this question. Today we came up with a new number: 4.7 billion to recapitalise banks. What, then, is the amount of bad claims that have already been made? Probably a lot more, 7.8 billion and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers have begun to come to order. This is one of these laws that should cover up these numbers and even those that have caused these numbers. In this connection, the issue of additional indebtedness, debt in a direction that means a non-transparent way, including in a way that was done a week ago when Slovenia did not commit itself to the open market, when it was obliged to deal with, according to the latest information published by German Handelsblatt, over two financiers and on a uniformly high interest rate, at the interest rate which is detrimental to that country, for future generations and for the people who are creating their work today, taxes are paid in a non-transparent way to finance the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are firmly opposed to such a way to rehabilitate Slovenian banks. As a result, we will not be able to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u161	Respected and respected! It is true that exceptional time requires exceptional action. The results of bank stress tests will be published on Friday, 13 December. We share the belief that Slovenia must be trained in the process by that day to take the necessary measures quickly, effectively and at the earliest possible time to reduce the time of vulnerability between publication of results and implementation of measures by speed and effectiveness. We are convinced that a small but important amendment to the Public Finance Act makes this possible. Stress tests will identify the need for recapitalisation after weaknesses have already been made, after assessing the value and quality of insurance. Violent is speculation, which was said a few moments ago about the extent of poor investment. It is worth noting that the action made possible by the Public Finance Act under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is pre-emptive, and that the extent to which possible resources are engaged, as part of the scope of the debt, is not yet prejudiced by the number necessary to carry out this action. We social democrats believe that the rehabilitation of the banking system takes too long, but that we are now, before the release of stress tests in key days, when we need to take effective action to ensure that confidence in Slovenia is strengthened, that it can and can manage the situation even after the publication of stress tests, after the publication of the size of the hole in the banking system. The envisaged way in which, by amending the Public Finance Act, we provide the necessary legal basis does not mean that the suspension of measures and the provision of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Today's legislative change in nothing threatens the search for responsibility and the path to strengthening the stability of banks, but allows the state to take the necessary measures within a few days of the publication of the stress tests and thus reduces the time when Slovenia could again be the target of various speculations. We want the National Assembly to recognize the greater need for a constructive approach at a time when we all know that the necessary and challenging task of recapitalisation is to be done, so we regret the obstruction of the opposition parliamentary groups, even though we understand that the speed and urgency of the procedure is necessary, but also unusual. It is worth stressing and repeating the words of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who recently estimated that Slovenia would have the best capitalised banks in the wider area following the implementation of measures to transfer poor investments and to recapitalise banks after the capital adequacy of the best capitalised bank. This gives the hope that banks will also improve their access to interbank markets, thereby ensuring their liquidity in advance, and finally, with the measures that we have yet to take to reduce the over-indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, also allow for a start-up of lending to the economy and thus a return to economic growth and job creation. Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Public Finance Act or its completion as one of the urgent steps that Slovenia must take to remedy the banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Marko Pavlisic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Act supplementing the Public Finance Act is primarily intended to provide all the necessary mechanisms for rapid response after we receive a difficult assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system on Friday, 13 December. I'd like to point out the word quickly. And to act quickly, the government must have prepared appropriate scenarios and legal solutions. We have already adopted a number of them, such as the Budget Enforcement Act and the Banking Act. Today we are adopting another law of this kind. Of course, an appropriate measure of cynicism is needed to say quick action after 5 years of crisis in any measure. After 5 years of crisis, which revealed the weaknesses of the financial system not only in Slovenia but also at the global level. In Slovenia, we have also faced all the skeletons brought to our banks by various cadres, including with the help of politics, and I have the feeling that all these skeletons have been properly paid and are therefore increasingly abundant. In the United States of America, Germany, Austria and elsewhere, all of these procedures have long been completed and are more concerned only with how to get the taxpayers' money back through privatisation into the state supply of transferred banks. Let me also mention Spain, which has opted for an ESM mechanism and is already on the safe side of the radar, as someone once mentioned when it was still closing its eyes before the real situation at home. There are speculations in the media about which banks will benefit from stress tests and for which they are unfavourable. If it is true what is speculated that foreign private banks are in a significantly better condition than state banks, then there are two conclusions. Firstly, it becomes clear that the private ownership of banks, where foreign owners are also present in the ownership structure, is better and cheaper for citizens, so we call on the National Gazette to seek immediate strategic partners. And secondly, we're gonna want to save the state banks. The sooner we do this, the better and cheaper it will be for the citizens. If rescues were to take place at the beginning of the crisis instead of 5 years after it, it would be only a bad memory today, and so today this is our biggest problem, which will eventually be bigger and not smaller, so we need to tackle solutions as soon as possible. Complementing the law that we are adopting today will provide the responsible with a tool that will, if necessary, be able to respond adequately to the results of stress tests and finally to implement measures that should have been taken long ago. There have also been public reports of a selected methodology in the conduct of stress tests, which is still unknown. We don't like this lack of transparency. But we like the procedure by which for the first time in Slovenia we can expect a real assessment of the situation, whatever it will be. The explicit reference to the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen banks also ensures that the Government will not only carry out one more recapitalisation and leave skeletons and their culprits where they are at the moment. The skeletons must be buried, and the culprits must be confined to suitable bars for this purpose. This law will enable the Government to properly prepare for the results of stress tests. This does not prejudge the results of the tests. The government behaves responsibly and prepares for every possible outcome. In the Civil Gazette, we predict support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal or do you want to explain your vote? First, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko. Do you have a procedural proposal? You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. The coalition has a full mouth of transparency, but when we propose an amendment when we propose a solution to actually achieve this transparency, such proposals are not accepted. Also in addressing the Public Finance Act, which we will decide on, we have proposed transparency – that the government prepare a programme and that this programme be adopted by the National Assembly. It was not accepted. Even when we proposed a similar solution to the Banking Act in order to get an overview of those who will be paid full in the process of controlled liquidation, the coalition did not accept this proposal. That's 13. 12. 2013 expects an extremely poor result of stress tests, it is probably clear to everyone. I am sure that the Government knows how much this common number is, especially because it examines each individual bank, and these partial reports are made in graves. 13. 12. 2013 you expect a joint report. However, I must say that this government has done everything to prevent these things from being dealt with through legal channels. You removed Mr. Shirtzl from the Bank Claims Management Company, from the so-called bad bank. This time, with the solution you're proposing, you're doing bypass even to a bad bank. The way you went about solving these inherited banking transactions is typical of mafia business. This is how the mafia works – exclude all who might know anything, see, work on sui generis, some closed way, in a closed circle, so that no information about this will become public except what the European institutions will bring. Nothing else will be public about it, nor who screwed up, nor who stole it, nor who cheated, nor who shared bad and unsupervised loans, poorly secured loans under low interest rates, or even for free, nor for whom the matter shriveled. None of this will be known. That's how you protect your mob people. On business, we will not take part in the vote to give legitimacy, even if we vote against such projects. I'm predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u167	In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the solutions enshrined in the law. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u168	Excuse me, Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u169	Please, if you'll just give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u170	Please, if you give Mr Bogovic another chance, and I would politely ask for peace in the hall and correctness. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u171	In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the financial crisis needs to be resolved. We also support the way in which these matters need to be pursued – to establish a bad bank that is established, to transfer claims and to resolve the matter through public debt in these circumstances. However, we cannot agree with what this law proposes, that within two days this procedure, with which Parliament will be completely abolished in these proceedings, is withdrawn, and the rehabilitation of banks will be hidden to the public, the fathers of Parliament. I think this is a key project of this mandate and I do not see a good reason for it. We also did not get one answer to the many questions that we had on the Committee on Finance. We proposed an amendment in which we wanted to make it possible to see the power of claims, what claims go into this burden of taxpayers and also that we have a clear financial plan to remedy this problem. We're talking about this problem, which is big, I don't know, from 4 billion to 6 billion. If we take these numbers, that means between 20 and 30 years of real estate tax. A debt — if done as was the case with the last one, the spread in the costs of this money in one year may be for interest only as much as the one-year expected income from the real estate tax. My concepts are an absurd act that Parliament should not have agreed to, and should share this responsibility with the government. That is why we decided in the Slovenian People's Party that even when we decide on this law we do not want to participate, because when we tried this process, as much power as it was, given that we had just received the document in hand yesterday, with the amendments to the law, we were just as easily voted on as we had in recent months. Coalition, you take a lot of responsibility, you take it to the government, and I don't know what good it's gonna do. Certainly, as I have already said, we do not want to participate in this in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. In accordance with the first point of Article 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the maintenance of the rules of procedure at the meeting of the President-in-Office of all colleagues, including those who are no longer in the Chamber, I would like to point out that I strongly oppose and protest performances in terms of the use of word links and the prosecution of each other with the words of the Mafia and so on. Please keep order in the temple of democracy. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u173	Dear colleagues and colleagues! You probably know what I am going to predict, namely that Nova Slovenija will obstruct this vote and the adoption of this law. You know the impression. We all have a similar impression that's made in public, that we're all the same, that we're all the same. However, I would like to point out that we are not all the same, that we are not all the same, and that today there have been many good proposals to improve this law, but that the coalition did not want to accept these proposals. Even if we remain in this Chamber today and vote against it, we will simply, when we leave this house outside, be marked as if we were all the same, that we have adopted such a law in Parliament. That's the key reason. Because we do not agree with such a law and because we cannot participate in such a decision, we will not cooperate, so we will leave this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-48.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I ask once again whether anyone else would like to explain their vote on behalf of the groups. Maybe in your own name? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and welcome you.
