ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Eva Irgl, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Ivan Simič from 2 p.m. on, Mr Roberto Battelli and Dr Laszlo Göncz. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on supplementation of the law on takeovers, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Andrea Kert, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted on behalf of the Ministry. In preparation for the completion of the takeover Act, it was agreed to complement, on the one hand, a set of measures in the recently adopted amendment to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination procedures, the essential solutions of which are intended to provide conditions for more efficient and realistic restructuring options for insolvency companies and to reduce insolvency proceedings. This novelty, which is a supplement to the Takeover Act, will contribute to the recovery of the Slovenian economy in relation to other measures in the area of restructuring and rescue of companies. On the other hand, experience with the implementation of the law itself has also led to the drafting of the law. The basic objective of the proposal to supplement the current law is to adapt it to the current situation in the securities market. Certain imbalances between weight will be addressed and infringements and sanctions imposed on them, which have in practice been accepted as non-life and have not achieved their purpose. The bill complements the existing law in works that have thus proved to be difficult in practice and in implementation itself. The proposal thus provides, in fact, for the temporary exemption of the obligation to make a takeover offer and allows the temporary exercise of voting rights to the offender in the event of the capital adequacy of the undertaking, its long-term payment capacity or financial restructuring. While the latter has been regulated by the Law on takeovers in the Financial Transactions Act, the latter is transferred to the Sectoral Act, namely the Law on takeovers. It has also made an important provision in the proposal you have before you that a person or persons acting in a coordinated manner who have been prohibited by an ATVP Decision from exercising voting rights in a target company may, at the time of prior acquisition of the ATVP consent, exercise voting rights from shares held by them when voting at a target company assembly on the proposals necessary for the protection of the public interest. This public interest should be expressed through the security or defence of the country, public security, safety of life, health, property of people and the functioning of the economic system is also very important. Consent to the decision shall be issued by the Securities Market Agency on the basis of a reasoned proposal from a person seeking to exercise voting rights. The proposal must be submitted at least 10 working days before the assembly where the applicant wishes to exercise the voting rights. The decision must be issued no later than the beginning of the assembly at which the person wishes to exercise those rights. This is in line with the principle of proportionality of a sanction with an offence which is a fundamental principle in that branch of law dealing with sanctioning. This is essentially a brief presentation of these changes and additions, which, according to our assessment, will significantly facilitate the current situation in securities market regulation, and we propose that these changes be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. The Committee's report will be presented by Mrs Alenka Pavlič, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u4	The Committee on the Economy is at its 32nd emergency meeting. 6. 2013 treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 56th session. 6. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Agency for the Market in Securities and Legal Services attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the Securities Market Agency, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia. The amendments to the bill were tabled: SDS MPs to Article 1 and Positive Slovenia, SD, DL and DeSUS members to Article 1 of the bill. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the basic objective of the proposed amendment of the law is to adapt to the current situation in the securities market and that the proposed solution eliminates some of the proportionality between the weight of the infringements committed and the sanctions imposed on it. It further presented two main solutions to the draft law, namely those who act in a coordinated manner and who were prohibited from exercising voting rights in the target company by a decision of the Agency, may, at the time of prior agreement of the Agency, exercise the voting rights of the shares they hold, by voting at the target company assembly on the proposals necessary for the protection of the public interest. Secondly, the possibility of suspending the obligation to make a takeover offer and the possibility of temporarily exercising the voting rights of the offender in the event of ensuring the company’s capital adequacy, its long-term capacity to pay or financial restructuring. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the proposed legislative solutions, in particular in view of the need for effective restructuring of enterprises, the preservation of the healthy cores of enterprises, the commitment to the protection of all stakeholders, the equality of their treatment and the transparency of the acquisition process. On the contrary, other debaters opposed the proposed solutions and drew attention to a number of dilemmas. Among other things, the opinion was expressed that the proposal for a law was weak and incomplete, in particular as regards the differences in the resolution of the draft law from the proposed solutions of the Securities Market Agency, the application of the Agency's modified role in practice and the under-defined criteria as the basis for the decision-making of the Agency on public interest. a question has also been raised regarding the vote in the Assembly and on the basis of the Agency's agreement and a fear expressed regarding the negative consequences of the implementation of the law in practice. The Ministry’s representatives responded to questions and expressed dilemmas between members and members and provided a number of clarifications, in particular regarding the proposed exceptions to the restructuring of companies, the protection of small shareholders, the vote in the Assembly on the basis of the Agency’s agreement on the protection of public interest and the role of the Agency in decision-making. In the context of the debate, the Committee identified itself until the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 1 was tabled and did not adopt it. The Committee also identified itself until the amendment tabled by the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS members to Article 1 was tabled and adopted. The Committee also voted on both articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report of the Committee, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you for presenting the report. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. The takeover law is a system law primarily designed to protect small shareholders who were all too often unjustifiably uprooted or injured by the majority. Due to the way small shareholders were privatised, there was a relatively large number of them, so it is important to be very careful when amending this law. However, the current provisions of the law in certain cases are too binding on the State, so we will support the amendment of the law in the Civil Gazette. In doing so, we stress that the country has a very elegant solution to the problem where voting rights have been taken away from it. In this case, the only rational decision taken by the State to sell these excess shares is simply to sell them. The amendment of the law gives the impression that we only adopt laws for citizens when the country does not like its own legislation, but we change it quickly. An integral part of a good business environment, a business environment in which companies can develop successfully, is also a stable legal order. That is why we want to make as few changes as possible to legislation as possible, and especially to those where the country has injected itself with its own legislation. However, crisis times require crisis measures. By amending the Takeover Act, we facilitate the rehabilitation of businesses. Such a take-over bid will no longer be mandatory when the take-over threshold is exceeded due to the implementation of the financial restructuring, with the agreement of the Agency, with a view to ensuring its capital adequacy or its long-term payment capacity. The case is a debt-to-equity conversion, which is carried out by the consent of the current owners. Such a conversion is an appropriate solution for a multi-indebted enterprise in order to ensure an appropriate capital structure. The amendment also allows the temporary and limited return of voting rights to persons whose voting rights have been revoked by the Agency by an appropriate decision where that is in the public interest. Within the limits of the Securities Market Agency, we thus give the right to decide whether a single financial transaction is in the interest of all shareholders, including small, or only majority, or whether a public interest is being pursued. That's a lot of power. We hope and expect them to use it properly. The amendment of the takeover law is part of a package of measures for the rapid and effective restructuring of businesses, and we will therefore support it in the Civil Gazette. We hope that it will be used as few times as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the proposed additions to the Law on takeovers that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has put into the legislative process by means of an urgent procedure, we are quite skeptical in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Although it appears to be a minor amendment to the law, two new articles actually bring major substantive changes. The takeover law is basically a law that protects small shareholders. In the case of takeover, it lays down the rules under which the acquirer, i.e. that the controlling shareholder, must make a takeover bid to all, including small shareholders, at the same price. The law thus allows small shareholders to leave the company under the same conditions, i.e. at the same selling price. Sanctions in the event of failure to comply with this provision are inexcusable, as has been shown in some very resilient cases where the regulator, i.e. the Securities Market Agency, has seized the voting rights of the State or its capital companies in the case of the Insurance Company Triglav or Telekom. The first additions to the takeover law, Article 22b, which introduces an exception to the withdrawal of voting rights, make particular sense in the economic situation in Slovenia. Where a financial restructuring acquirer solves an economic company in difficulty and even before insolvency proceedings occur, the acquirer may retain all voting rights in that company on the basis of a reasoned proposal. Therefore, in cases where the creditor converts claims and thus saves the company, it is not obliged to make a takeover offer to all shareholders at the same time, and nevertheless retains all voting rights and we can agree with that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. But we have more problems with the other one, so to speak, Article 22. This introduces a new exception when the exercise of voting rights is allowed because of the so-called public interest. In this case, voting rights may be regained by shareholders previously seized by the Agency and expressed public interest in the proposal. In this case, the Director of the Agency shall have the discretion to decide whether or not this public interest is manifest. We have serious problems in this regard in the Slovenian People's Party Group. The concept of public interest is extremely poorly defined. The law lists only the security and defence of the state, public security, safety of life, health and property of people, the functioning of the economic system. In our opinion, public interest is a concept that falls within other laws — one that justifies interventions, for example. in road infrastructure or in the Law on the Protection against Natural Disasters. In the takeover law, however, such a term is not the most appropriate, especially if it is so poorly defined as it is in this case. If the state wants to protect its interests, as has already been said, in a given situation, it is perfectly legitimate to make this perfectly clear in the law and not to hide it under a much more loose term of 'public interest', which applies to any shareholder, not just to the state. Therefore, we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party that this article should be redefined to determine precisely whose interest it is, and that it should also be clearly defined, in which cases it can be enforced, as it poses too many risks to political abuse, while also introducing a discretionary right to the director of the Agency puts corruption risks in place. We will not go into discussion whether this was the intention of the proposer or not, the fact is that this is not the right way and that the proposed text for the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group is not acceptable and that, therefore, just because of these risks, we do not intend to support this law in the parliamentary group. However, if the proposed law is adopted, we will follow very closely the proposals made by shareholders, which will refer to the public interest and also to all decisions made by the Director of the Agency in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for this law and the following, followed by the next item on the agenda, are two others already adopted and future ones, who are still coming and have a common intention to help the economy and especially those companies in difficulty. The fact that companies can successfully restructure and maintain healthy cores in difficulty is now, during the economic crisis, essential for maintaining jobs, as the social picture of Slovenia worsens from day to day. The purpose of supplementing the takeover Act is to facilitate the restructuring of companies deprived of voting rights. On this list are for example: Insurance company Triglav, Telekom, Nova Kredittna banka Maribor and several other companies where the state has its shares. Except for shareholders in these companies, voting rights shall be returned, but only for certain matters; matters of public interest. The law defines this public interest and the Securities Market Agency will be able to issue a vote on the basis of the shareholder's reasoned proposal. The proposal for a law provides another exception whereby shareholders with their voting rights could vote in the assembly or be temporarily released to publish a takeover offer, in the event that the acquisition threshold would be reached due to the implementation of a financial restructuring with a view to ensuring its capital adequacy or longer-term payment capacity. This bill is a step towards the fulfilment of the commitments made by the Government with a view to improving the economic situation. The legal framework for the functioning of society by this law is adapted to the current economic situation. Of course, it is clear that this law does not solve or eliminate all shortcomings contained in the takeover legislation and we expect even more extensive corrections in DeSUS. Of course, we will support this proposal in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, all present, welcome! In New Slovenia we support the efforts of the Government or the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to help the Slovenian economy and businesses on the way from the crisis as soon as possible. At the same time, we believe that the solutions we take in the National Assembly must be well thought out, since otherwise they can cause more harm than good. The legal and regulatory services and representatives of the Securities Markets Agency have expressed the view that the proposed amendment is not prepared and that it will lead to additional problems in practice. In New Slovenia, we agree that ensuring the country's voting rights in companies where the country has its share is very important, but it is necessary to take into account existing legislation and to propose solutions that will be good and internationally comparable. A country which adopts laws must stick to them first and must not be subject to an exception or any other rule than that of other citizens. We therefore call on the Government to amend the law accordingly in accordance with the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service and, in a specific case, the Securities Market Agency and to specify the criteria for exemptions. If the new Law on takeovers remains substantially the same as the coalition adopted at the meeting of the parent committee, we will not support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The Law on takeovers touches, in particular, the current situation in the securities market and offers additional solutions to improve the exercise of shareholders' rights. The Takeovers Act provides that persons whose voting rights have also been acquired under certain conditions by the Securities Market Agency, subject to the agreement of the Securities Market Agency, may also obtain voting rights under certain conditions. The Takeovers Act provides for the refund of voting rights in the target company with the intention of carrying out financial restructuring. While the financial restructuring of the target company is carried out with a view to ensuring capital adequacy, it ensures the company’s long-term capacity to pay before the initial insolvency proceedings. Although the takeover amendment allows for the restoration of voting rights under certain conditions which have been withdrawn by a legislative decision of the Agency, this does not mean that the obligation to tender has ceased. Persons who have been reimbursed are still obliged to make a takeover offer after five years. The deadline is in line with the deadline laid down in the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which provides for measures financed by public funds, for a period of 5 years to recover those funds. The new Takeover Act also provides that a five-year period is sufficient for the financial restructuring of the company and that, after the expiry of that period, a take-over offer must be made. The main solutions, as introduced by the new Law on takeovers, are: the return of voting rights in a company that the Agency for the Market in Securities has withdrawn for the sake of concerted operation, in obtaining the approval of the Securities Market Agency, voting rights may be exercised when it comes to the protection of public interest, whether through security or by the defence state, with public security, safety of life, health and property of people and the functioning of the economic system. Persons deprived of voting rights by the Agency for the purpose of concerted action must submit a reasoned proposal and a positive opinion by the expert on business and financial costs at least 10 working days before the assembly at which they wish to exercise these rights. In the event of ensuring the appropriate capital adequacy of the company, its long-term payment capacity or financial restructuring, it shall be possible, for a period of five years, to exempt the submission of the takeover offer and the exercise of voting rights. For the sake of everything, the Group of Members of the Positive Slovenia supports the proposed amendment. We support the new takeover law because it is an integral part of the package of measures and the legal basis for the rapid and effective restructuring of businesses. We believe that this novel will help stabilise and normalise the situation in the Slovenian economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I also welcome our youngest visitors, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us an important law, namely the Law on takeovers, supplementation, and in view of the content of the law that we have on the table, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has a lot of concerns. Initially, the amended law is not in line with the market regulator, the ATVP. Also on the Committee on Finance, the Securities Trade Agency has made a number of concerns and is tasked with certain new tasks that are not clearly defined and will have problems with decision-making in particular. However, a reservation to the proposed law was also made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We estimate that the law is very poorly written. The law does not contain any criteria on the basis of which the market regulator could decide in which cases voting rights would return. Of course, the core of this law defines the new concept of 'public interest', and with not a single word in the law itself is written what the criteria for public interest are. Of course, on the question as a representative of the Committee on the Economy, the State Secretary could not explain such an answer as to the criteria of public interest. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that Slovenia is going on a new path, after 20 years of speaking about national interest, that we now have a new concept, namely "public interest". However, we all know how the stories involved in the national interest have come to an end. The question of this addition to the takeover Act is, in particular, how voting rights will return, whether shareholders will be able to decide on all items of the agenda if they receive their voting rights back, or whether it will only be for the return of voting rights in points where it is intended to ensure capital adequacy, payment capacity and financial restructuring. We have doubts that this law is written on the skin of the current government, namely that it will be able to recruit and modify, in particular, the supervisory councils, in the case of state-owned companies deprived of voting rights. It should be pointed out that the voting rights of none of the state-owned companies were taken in good faith, but because they were either directly or indirectly in breach of the takeover law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the law must be respected. The rules must apply with everything, not just to the country. The professional public also considers that this proposal and the amendment of the law are contrary to the European legal order and that the state cannot be an exception. We estimate that such a bill, which we have Members at this time on the table, represents the act of law. The takeover law is primarily designed to protect small shareholders. This way of complementing it also raises a question, we know that privatisation is being prepared in Slovenia and what feedback information and what a signal this will be to serious investors when they see that laws in Slovenia apply; but they apply to everyone except the country. It is estimated, or according to the Government's explanations, that even if voting rights are restored, there is still a need to publish the acquisition. Look, the key point of the stock is that you have voting rights in the assembly. I believe that if voting rights return to the assembly, there is not a single percent chance that these companies will publish the takeover that they should have. The law is flawed, the law has no criteria, which is why we have also tabled an amendment in the SDS Group. If the law is as it is at a given time, it will not be supported in the SDS Group for those reasons, especially because the legislation applies to all but only to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State with a professional associate! Allow me also to violate existing practice and welcome the ladies and gentlemen on our balcony. The proposal to supplement the takeover law amends the existing law in parts where it has in practice proved to be some problems in implementing the law. In particular, the two main solutions followed by this proposal are: firstly, persons acting in a coordinated manner and who, by a decision of the Securities Market Agency, were prohibited from voting in the target company, may exercise voting rights from their shares at the target company's assembly on those proposals necessary to protect the public interest. And, respectable, secondly, the proposal of the law provides for the possibility of temporarily exempting the obligation to make a takeover offer and the possibility of temporarily exercising the voting rights of violators in the event of ensuring the company's capital adequacy, its payment capacity or financial restructuring. The bill has, in our opinion, an assessment of the Social Democrats, a good or legitimate purpose, because it wants to prevent in some way the abuse of state property in the interests of an extremely private nature and the exhaustion of companies with a dividend policy, where individuals with a minority share in an economic society are determined, not a state that is a majority owner, but that has been deprived of voting rights. The second question is whether this proposal for a law to regulate these important issues has addressed us in the right way. Our Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in its opinion on the draft law a number of systemic and legal issues, among which, according to our assessment, we are particularly key two, and we pay particular attention to them. The first question is whether this bill does not prejudice the rights or protection of minority shareholders, which is the primary purpose of legal regulation of acquisitions, or whether the State as a majority owner is overprivileged compared to other majority owners. And another question that is important to us is whether the Securities Market Agency is not given too much discretion on the part of the public interest, as no precise criteria are defined for this purpose and, as a consequence, new powers are allocated to the Agency which affect or exceed the function of the regulatory authority. It is therefore important and sensitive issues that need to be addressed in a manner that will adequately safeguard the public interest or interest of the State as the majority owner. Here, in particular, we have in mind the prudent and not overly strict regime for the seizure of the voting rights of the State as the majority owner. On the other hand, we are aware of the need to be extremely careful and restrictive in restricting or interfering with the rights of small shareholders who may also be entitled to seek their right in the Constitutional Court. Finally, the role of the Securities Markets Agency as a regulatory authority should be maintained, but it should not be given too much authority and such responsibility in taking decisions that may also have a fatal property impact on the detriment of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. While we will support this proposal for a law, we expect the Government and the Ministry of Field Affairs to make a very thorough analysis of all the above-mentioned open issues, also taking into account the expert opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, and to draw up such a proposal for a new Law on takeovers, which will effectively secure the public interest of the State in companies where the State is the majority owner. We need this law precisely because of the privatisation that is being announced in this republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, namely Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I find that it is an interest and I invite you to apply for a debate. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u20	Dear President, thank you for your word! In such an important law, it can be worrying that there is only one application. As we have already said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled this amendment primarily for the purpose of following the opinions and proposals of the regulator of the Securities Market Agency, since the opinion of the regulator is important to us and should be important for everyone else as to how this law will be decided. The amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party partially follows the proposal proposed by the Securities Markets Agency and the Securities Markets Agency has expressed great concerns on the Committee on the Economy, as a new task is being assigned to the Securities Markets Agency; the task is particularly problematic because there are no criteria on the basis of which the Securities Market Agency will be able to decide. So we are coming back to some legal void, and I estimate that these laws are empty, allowing certain manoeuvres, especially those privileged, too in Slovenia, and that the problem of the problems we have in Slovenia is probably also connected with the poorly adopted legislation. That is why I appeal today to all Members of Parliament and Members not to allow Slovenia to once again receive one disability legislation that will primarily allow certain companies to play by law. The takeover law is primarily intended to protect small shareholders, in particular it should be pointed out that voting rights to state-owned companies – Insurance Company Triglav, Telekom, Aerodrome, Sava Reinsurance – were not taken into account, but because of the violation of legislation. The professional public also points out that without the addition of this law, this law is contrary to the European legal order, since the state cannot be an exception. The shortcomings, the disproportionateity and, above all, the lack of expertise were pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, but the coalition members on the Finance Committee heard and used that voting machine and voted. We estimate that there will be major market problems, particularly in front of the assemblies, there is no clear definition of where to return these voting rights, whether those voting rights will apply to all items of the Assembly's agenda or, in fact, only to those items of the agenda that will talk about restructuring, ensuring capital adequacy, ensuring financial restructuring and ensuring financial capacity. Here we do not have any problems, but we fully assess that it is necessary to adopt the proposed amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we estimate that the country cannot be the one playing the law and that the laws are written only for the benefit of the country. The State is too large and the Takeover Act is primarily to protect the interests of small shareholders. Small shareholders in Slovenia have already been played too many times and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will not allow ourselves to have more room for manoeuvre by playing small shareholders. Above all, it is disturbing for us to talk about a new term, namely 'public interest', but not a single word of the law says what this public interest is. We are afraid, and fear exists that instead of the "national interest", which we know where Slovenia has brought, a new term will now be used, which will be called "public interest". I appreciate that the amendment has been amended and the SDS proposal in the Committee on the Economy itself has been such that this law is important in certain matters and would make sense for it to be adopted, but that the Government should take the time, listen to the market regulator's proposals and comments, this law complements that there will be no confusion, and in this case we would also support it in our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that it is an interest and I invite you to apply for a debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, I welcome you! In the position of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ljudmila Novak has already said that it is necessary to support this law on our part to adopt the proposed amendment prepared by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If we are reading a letter from the Market Regulator of the Securities Market Agency, if we have listened carefully to the ATVP representative's debate on the Committee and if, after all, we have listened to at least the last one to present the position of the Group of Members, this was Mr Matjaž Han, who said very frankly that their Group would adopt this law, but they immediately give the Government the task of optimising this law somehow. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the provisions of this amendment, which will in practice lead to inoperability. This was also pointed out by the Securities Market Agency. There's been a lot of confusion at the time of the adoption of this law. Last thing I'm gonna do is warn you about one thing. On the portal of the National Assembly, we could see a different text of the bill than at the same time the text of the bill on the government portal. Otherwise, as an opposition Member, I do not know what was going on on on government committees, but I am adding a sentence based on unverified information: I hope that something has happened at all. It seems that some laws come, I point out by unverified information, directly to the Government, so that the government committees do not even consider the proposals of the laws. That's not good! Last but not least, it is an extremely important matter – yes, also because we are before the stage, I hope at least, the privatisation of the work of state property. I conclude by declaring my support for this amendment, which will significantly improve the bill's proposal, also make it significantly more operational, and in fact the adoption of the amendment is also a guarantee that the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Richard Branisle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In fact, there is some relationship between public interest and the protection of small shareholders. Of course, the public interest cannot be expressed in law but is expressed in explanation. In particular, I do not think that there is much that has to be defined, because we all recognize it and we know why this public interest is important and what this public interest is. Of course, small shareholders need to be protected, but this amendment incorporates this into the system itself and the Securities Market Agency, as regulator in this area, is also – irrespective of the fact that this is required and expected from the regulator – also publicly stated that the Securities Market Agency will be very restrictive in deciding on a specific proposal that seeks to protect public interest due to possible interference with the rights of small shareholders. After all, we must have an effective mechanism here in terms of public interest, in order to save businesses in some way, we are saving those companies where shareholders are also small shareholders. When we save businesses, we also save small shareholders. I think that the interests of all should actually be united here. We don't have any problems. I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yes, I'd like to invite you to the hearing. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present! The amendment to Article 1 that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party is somehow trying to mitigate the poor direction of this legislation. Especially in this direction, which has been discussed so far. Of course not entirely. There was a lot of talk about this public interest. Sometimes it has been called national interest, it is the same thing, it is said, it is the public interest, the interest of all of us, which must be pursued in many areas, certainly also in the management of state property. I do not share views with those who believe that the country has been successful in protecting this interest with various financial contributions to various state-owned enterprises. It was the opposite. If we look at the cases that have taken place in the last 20 years, it would be right to go as far away as possible from these provisions in the law and not allow it, because the state has not solved anything, but with inputs and interventions both in New LB, the Credit Bank Maribor, Adria Airways, a number of other companies, only deepened the situation in these companies and prevented companies from being restructured in an appropriate manner when the circumstances were met and the circumstances were met. Of course, this would happen either in order to get a smart, responsible owner, or to get a country into a combination with some strategic owner, where it would take on a greater burden on management, governance and the state would provide a strategic aspect that it certainly has in certain areas, such as energy, transport, logistics. Unfortunately, however, in the past everything has been so mixed under a known formula of national interest, which is why we have great difficulties in supporting this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because this interest is not actually defined, there are no defined criteria and the ATVP will have a very difficult task in some sovereign way to decide in such cases. Let's say we look at this case that's no longer hypothetical, which happened not long ago. Mercator. Two years ago, in 2011, this was in spring 2011, the then Pahor government made it very clear that it is not the strategic interest of this country to sell this company to Croatian Agrokor. Even today, that is the opinion of the Minister of the Jews. Of course, this did not happen at the time because the regulator reacted, probably not because of some of his own interests, but because he listened to what was the country's strategic national interest at the time. We are now after two years, after virtually two years since this sale was prevented, at a price of €221 per share, at the point that Mercator will – or will not – be sold for 120 euros for a share to the same Agrokor buyer. This means EUR 400 million less for shareholders. Among others, the country, the New LB, will have to be covered from somewhere. In the case of NLB, we know who is covering this – all our people; all 2 million citizens, or anyone who pays any tax – we know in the future that there will be more – will be obliged to cover one part of this omission. What happened in two years in this company to halve its value? Is that possible? Was this company really that bad? In two years, he was doing so much worse that his value was halved. This is not possible, even in those companies that do not have a mixed ownership structure, which is a majority-owned country, they do not operate so badly that their value is halved within two years. Besides, it's a merchant. It is a trader who has a dominant share in the Slovenian market and some others. It's the whole chain that's set up in this scheme. So, two years ago, it was also a national interest for Social Democrats not to sell Mercator after 221 euros to Agrokor. Clearly, this national interest is no longer available today. For EUR 400 million less taken from taxpayers' pockets. So we have a real problem with this law and with this novel because in some ways it legalizes, let's say, a state theft or Mr Weber would have expressed himself differently – bigotry. Three months ago, he said that the classification of investments in the Slovenian State Holding Company was treason. And why did he say that? Due to the fact that it is sold to Aerodromes and thus we lose a remarkable potential in tourism and the economy, Mr Weber said at the time. And it's treason. Because he sold to Telekom, he said it was treason. No country sells operators because it is a matter of national security control. This is about high treason for endangering national security. He said that in Slovenian Democrats – sorry, in Social Democrats, not in Slovenian Democrats – we would not sell Telekom and Aerodrome. February of this year was said, not two years ago. Tomorrow we will sell shares in 45 minutes without discussion, because you will close it, as was the closed debate on Adria Airways today, or you will decide to sell shares in fifteen companies – but look, they include Telekom and Aerodro! In the SDH, however, the former government intended to maintain a control share of 25 plus one share in the Aerodrome and a control share of 25 plus one share in the New KBM, which is also envisaged for sale, at no cost at any time, since at present this bank was practically worthless in terms of business, while the Government, which was led by the Social Democrats, Mr Pahor, was also under great political pressure to provide national interest or public interest, provided for the recapitalisation of the New KBM by mainly state-owned companies. Slovenian Post Offices, Gen Energija and many other state-owned companies have purchased shares of New KBM at 30 and multiple values, as is worth today. Who, then, will pay for this difference? On behalf of the public interest? Was the public interest really protected here or was it something else? Was it about maintaining certain positions, positions in companies where we know that such and other parastatal networks can be powered? There's a marriage on the table that can stop it, and unfortunately it won't stop it. Moreover, he will legalize all these works that have actually been on the verge of legality. If we had a country based on the rule of law and justice, then it is likely that some who participated in these procedures would already be sitting behind bars. Of course, something like this is going to happen to us for a long time, unfortunately, it's not going to happen. Those who try to do what is right will be persecuted, but who are not compatible with the political wind that is currently blowing in this country. It's been that way for a while, I'm sorry. Thus, this public interest, which is now somehow illegal in this law, can be very problematic, especially because in the past there have been quite a few companies which were left behind when they could still be restructured. One of them must be Adria Airways. You also know that the recapitalisation took place two years ago, during the social-democratic Pahor government. At that time, 49 million were earmarked for this recapitalisation also for the purpose of maintaining the strategic position of the national carrier, and when this was justified two and a half years ago, some who are still sitting in this Parliament justified this move as an important decision, which, together with the preservation of the state share at Dr. Jožet Pučnik's airport, is said to have provided the national public interest pursued by Slovenia in the field of air transport and aviation logistics. Tomorrow in 45 minutes, as many as you have measured to be able to present the views of individual parliamentary groups, each in five minutes, both these two national interests will be placed on the market, both Adria Airways and the airport as a whole. All of it! What has now happened in the last two years or in the last three, four months — in some — that an exceptional commitment to national interest at a time when another government was involved had some significance and some connotation, now that your government is a government, this takeover has a completely different meaning. And of course it's only the public national interest that you say it is. It's something like the law, it says, only the one you say is guilty of, the one you think is innocent, but innocent. Obviously, nothing important has happened; only the cards have been mixed politically, and because of this mix of political cards, unfortunately, even in the Act of Takeovers, the ruling coalition is playing in a very unworthy way with our common assets, so that all these decisions will cost us very much in the future. Recently this was re-adapted by the Nova Ljubljanska Bank with EUR 500 million, which has been recapitalised over a billion euros in recent years, it is estimated that around EUR 300 million. Let us now ask ourselves whether the purpose for which these funds were intended was real or not. Has this bank become better, more efficient, better service to the population and the economy, better credit rating, expanded its business network to other markets, internally refined and rationalised in this period? He didn't! None of this has happened, and something similar applies to other banks that have been recapitalised in this way, to Adrio Airways, to a number of other companies that have received uncritically the funds that could have been given because no one has given them out of their pockets, as no problem is now with the state secretary of the government to walk through Slovenia, and to give one million Svei, 5 million to another company, from Mr Pavčka, I think that 10 million at the third end of the short, there is no problem because there is no responsibility for this money. [[...]] However, if someone who had to create these funds in one way or another — either through his entrepreneurial activities or through his knowledge or in any other way — gave to say, his money, his capital, then that responsibility would be completely different and significantly greater. A test of whether a company is good and whether it can still be kept alive and ensured its more efficient business is whether someone is willing to give their money into it. This test is very simple. Mr Meh said a while ago that TER 6 was such a good investment that he gave it half of his house. I hope he's already done that. Because if he's so sure about this, then there can be no fear here. If he did so, I can tell him that I am not so sure and would not put a single euro into this project because it has proved through calculations and figures that the profitability of this project is extremely questionable. And if profitability is questionable, someone will have to cover the difference in this story. This takeover legislation may not be seen as directly touching these issues that I have been talking about here today, but touching very directly. If this amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is adopted, it is possible to mitigate in one small part the harmful behaviour that we will be able to bear witness to in the future, but not entirely because of the fact that the protection of these small shareholders should be particularly exposed in this takeover legislation. In those other aspects where the state would like to intervene in this way to resolve something, but experience in the past – I hope we all agree – convinced that this country has not been successful and that this burden today, which will have to be paid in one way or another, because in the economy everything is paid, is not free of coffee or cappuccino, we are all not hit with headaches, but all of us, unfortunately, will be forced to pay at least the next 10 years' taxes that they paid this year, given this direction of the current government. If all of this is to be covered, which is what this is about, and obviously the purpose is to cover it, then this government has decided not to take this money from those who are a number of assets from, including state-owned enterprises, to channel it into accounts outside this country, but to take it from those where it is the easiest to take it, it is said that it is easy to tax the entire population. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are counting on only receiving support for this amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can only see Mr. Webber's hand so far. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Allow me to say, within the framework of this amendment and this article we are discussing, that I agree that too much of the right is given to the Securities Market Agency to decide what is of public interest. However, I find it difficult to support the amendment which brings the matter back to the current situation as it is today, because it is also very problematic because the Agency has withdrawn voting rights in a way that actually prevents the State from exercising its interest in the operations of these companies. If we look at the takeover legislation of developed European countries, perhaps German, which is one of the most economically resilient, if I may say so, in the European Union and in the world, deals with this issue in a different way. In Germany, by no means, if you exceed, let's say, I don't know, a small amount of that quota, which is prescribed for them to take away your voting rights, they only take them from the part where you exceeded that percentage, which allows you more rights than it would otherwise be, but not to take them away from you for all the other amounts. Indeed, this matter has not yet been fully cleared in this law and, as has been stated in the position of the Group of Members, we expect to do so in the manner regulated in the most powerful economic countries in Europe. With regard to other matters relating mainly to the sale process and, as mentioned also in my view, I can say that I do not depart from those positions that I said at the time, and I still stand firm that in Slovenia we must first agree on what is extremely important for us to allow for further development, but what is what we can leave to the market, which we can leave to decide on capital, whether it will concentrate capital and bring profits to Slovenia or will be taken away from Slovenia. This is a matter of capital game and if we leave it only to capital, then we will probably meet again again with the concentration of profits in tax havens, not in Slovenia. If we are talking about infrastructure and the Aerodrome, I can say once again that it is true, too, that the state does not have voting rights and today the state cannot say in this company whether this investment, which is planned, will continue or not, and the investment by building a new terminal really represents a significantly greater potential for the only largest international Slovenian airport that can truly represent a very great potential for many companies thinking about where they will invest. If you can't land normally in this country with a plane, then you'll think you'll invest where you can. And just for a short comparison, neighbouring Croatia does not sell its airport, it has awarded a concession. There are forms to manage our state infrastructure and there is no need to sell it in order to achieve some greater efficiency in this management. However, it is certainly the strategic position of Slovenia that we are given, and if we place this strategic position in the hands of someone else who will see the capital interest in particular, at some point he will be able to make a decision quite differently than we would have wanted. To put forward such an argument, such a potential from the time that Slovenia has, is a real issue that deserves to be dealt with more seriously in Parliament. I can honestly say that the classification of capital investments, which was rejected in this House, was a more qualitative document for my concepts than a decision on the sale of assets. And if this has already happened in Parliament to reject one document, then I cannot afford to support my own decision, which is essential at a lower quality level, if I may say so, under what and under what conditions will something be sold in Slovenia. So I just want to stress that there will be no dilemma and that you will not repeat my statements: I do not deviate from my views, but I regret that no one has found a challenge large enough to discuss what is very important to Slovenia and what is not. Above all, I think that there is still a fact, and even if we are talking about these acquisitions, that when you reach the lowest value on the market, you probably don't sell your shares, you will sell it when it is as favourable as possible. So the moment itself is such that all that will happen is likely to be sold at a price. These are the facts, these are the questions that I have always raised, and I still say that this should not be the case during this period. However, I would like to point out that I will not change my position, but I hope that there will be enough challenges in the future to talk more seriously about what is true for Slovenia, if you want, national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? First, Mr. Horvath, then we'll open again. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This must be extremely difficult marital matter, and it must be extremely important legal matter right in the light of the upcoming privatisation of Slovenian property. You will recall that on Monday, I asked the Minister of Infrastructure and Space about the Government's position on the investment at the Ljubljana Aerodrome, or more precisely the Government's position on the construction of terminal 2 at the Ljubljana Aerodrome. Ljubljana Airport is on the list of companies to be sold. According to the management of this company, Ljubljana Airport is the only infrastructure company that owns the infrastructure, for example Dars is not. Dars doesn't own Slovenian highways. In Novi Slovenija we do not object to privatisation to understand each other, but at the moment when the financial structure is closed for terminal 2 construction, we need to be extremely careful. Mr Sam Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure, explained to me that we all know that the ATVP has seized the voting rights of the state at the shareholders' assembly and that it fully trusts the Supervisory Council, which is likely to give a green light for the construction of this terminal. As a Member, I would like to know exactly what the practical effects of the implementation of this new Law on takeovers will be, and therefore I ask the Government how the implementation of this law will be reflected in the decisions to build terminal 2 at the Ljubljana Aerodrome. I thank you in advance for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek is the next debater. Here you go. Good. Then there's Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thanks again for saying that. Surely it is an important law, and I am pleased to share our views on the important provisions, both in the opposition and in some in the coalition. However, no matter what I heard from Mr Weber, who is not anyone, was the leader of the Social Democrats Group for a long time, the positions around the classification were presented as the views of the Social Democrats three months ago and it was explicitly said that the Social Democrats were opposed to the sale of the Aerodrome, Telekom and some other companies. If it was used at the time as a maximum to be a major betrayal when sales proposals were different as they were today, when the airport held a controlling stake, then it would be expected that some of you will remain faithful to yourself and today name things with the right name and say that it is now the decision that you will decide tomorrow to be a major issue in a square. But as I see it, in the Group of Social Democrats, you obviously cannot reconcile what is a public interest. But the fact that you can't unify yourself will be paid by all people. Everybody's gonna pay for it. For this reason, your communication before the public when you speak one thing and the other you are doing what we have heard today, because, contrary to the words spoken by Mr Vebra, it is quite clear that this decision cannot be considered tomorrow. It is necessary to withdraw and prepare another – I am talking about selling 15 shares in state companies. This misdirection and this muscling, the mistaking of the public on the one hand and, on the other hand, the making of decisions that are far from what you say in public, have concrete consequences that can also be measured at the final stage. The biggest concrete consequence is Mercator, 400 million euros because of this mouse. Two years ago, in spring 2011, the then ruling policy of Social Democrats led by Mr Pahor was loud and clear against Agrokor; if this company cannot be sold because it is a bad buyer, it has no ratings, it will destroy the network and so on. This principle remains only true today, Mr jedan. But apparently more so because of some belief in credibility in the public eye, not because of any instance where anything else could be achieved could have an impact. Today, after two years, because of this controversy over public interest, especially in the ranks of Social Democrats in recent years, we are going to have to cover this. And where are they gonna cover it? Probably not from those tycoons who safely put that money in safe places, but from the pockets of all taxpayers. As a result of this higher VAT, an enormous property tax – a law that is in public debate – should be withdrawn immediately because it is inappropriate. Slovenia is specific in this area, most people have solved their own housing issues, and if they live in these units, you can't tax them yet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u33	Look, Mr Chernač, I apologize for having to cut you into a debate, but today we are considering the takeover law, not the property tax, and please take this into account. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u34	That's what I'm talking about. I say what happens if this takeover legislation is not respected, as it should be respected, and if it does not fulfil the fundamental purpose for which this legislation was written. Earlier in the first part of the debate, I will say again, if some decisions were not to be made through these provisions, interventions in the sense of such and other recapitalisations to state or parastatal enterprises, if some decisions were to be taken when it was time to leave things in terms of privatisation, where necessary, with the aim of improving operations, ensuring the growth of the company, social security for employees, etc., then today, this point would not have to be taken to this point, because of these deviations, large deviations, where huge taxpayers' money is metal in those companies, but there was no effect that these funds would have to be taken from somewhere else. We just need them for the functioning of the country, and you're going to take them, as we can see, not from these tycoon accounts in different countries around us, but from people's pockets. That's why I was talking about VAT and real estate tax, because there are things you don't want, you don't want, you know, connected. So, despite the fact that this is a political debate, it is an important issue. Here we probably all agree, and it would probably be right to overcome this policy in this case, both with regard to the Takeover Act and with regard to other decisions that are in some way linked to the Takeover Act. However, as far as the Aerodrome is concerned, if you take this decision tomorrow, the state will no longer have any voting rights in the Aerodrome in any event, because it will sell everything. It provides that the whole share will be sold in full, both the part directly linked to the country and all the other shares.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u36	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Colleagues and colleagues! We're talking about the takeover law. The takeover law is intended primarily to protect small shareholders in accordance with the shareholder legislation and that those who are larger owners do not have to uncontrolledly take over companies and also do damage to small shareholders. We know from this box today that it has been said that our legislation is probably flawed, that this legislation on the one hand allows different acts to be played and, on the other hand, in some disproportionate way takes away the voting rights of large owners. In this case, the State has also repeatedly been involved in such an application that it is alone or indirectly through companies owned by it, as the majority owner, which suddenly became the owner without voting rights in the assemblies where key documents and conclusions are adopted. The first and basic question is why this is happening. Because someone, on behalf of these institutions, indirectly the State, is doing something wrong, and as a result, the Securities Market Agency, which is the regulator in this area, has seized these rights in accordance with our legislation. An attempt today to quickly amend this law and regulate it in such a way that, without criteria, we now impose on the Securities Market Agency that, on the basis of an initiative for which the public interest is supposed to be responsible, we arbitrarily decide whether someone gets voting rights or not, we move on to a very slippery ground. Surely, those who are potential investors in our market will take us under great care whether we are a regulated legal state or whether we are still an agreed economy. That is why I have very serious concerns, particularly with regard to Article 22c, with this correction when this arbitrary determination of public interest is introduced. In this part also these concerns were expressed by the Legal and Legislative Service, and also by people from the Securities Market Agency in some way this tool is feared to be in their own hands. That is why I think that we are adopting such amended legislation very quickly and too easily today, so in the Slovenian People's Party we support these amendments so that we do not make any more mistakes out of one mistake, and we join in doing so, and we have already tried to do so on the committee to correct this legislation at this point in time, so that it is correct, right and that the matter is settled. That is why I think that the search for such shortcuts is usually a longer way and that is why in the Slovenian People's Party we support these amendments and we hope that the National Assembly will also adopt them and thus accept this very important and responsible legislation in an orderly manner. Around acquisitions, around the sale of state property – I am pleased to hear these positions here today, where the classification prepared by the Government and recently rejected by the National Assembly, gives that city and that assessment – is said to have been a document on which it would have been able to build this badly regulated management of state property. I am therefore surprised that, on the one hand, the coalition, the visible representatives of this coalition, you admit that, on the other hand, tomorrow virtually without discussion, we only accept a document from the views of the members of the groups, such as the sale of 15 state-owned companies. I think we've learned a lot in the past, a lot of words have been said today. I firmly believe that the time is coming when these stories will have to be put into a whole, and — as Mercator’s case has already been mentioned many times — it is good to ask what was happening there at the beginning of this century, as it was at the beginning of the 21st century when some blessing accumulated society. It might also be interesting to know what was going on in 2005, when owners who were not some merchants took on this matter in a rather strange way. At the very least, I think that in this case, those who had the objective of such important economies as Mercator would be in the hands of honest, economical Slovenian owners of this capital, who would also pursue certain national economic objectives. I believe this debate will still be alive. I will be very pleased if the accounts are definitively placed at this point and anyone who has cooperated in this matter or otherwise will also pay a clear bill for what he has done in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u38	President, thank you for your word. Once again, I appeal to all Members and Members that some reason prevails and that they support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because otherwise we will get a disabled law again, which will be able to play law. The law will apply to everyone except the state. There's been a lot of talk here about the forfeiture of voting rights. Above all, it is disturbing to me because some coalition Members are trying to set the issue in a completely different direction so that this law allows for the resolution of businesses. It's not like that! Tell me one company that went bankrupt because of the forfeiture of voting rights to one of the owners of the case. This question was also raised by the State Secretary on the Committee on the Economy, of course there was no answer. I expect today because I will have a few more questions for the Secretary of State and representatives of the Government, because I expect very active cooperation from their side here, and I think it is good that some of the questions that Members will ask are being answered. That the situation has arisen that the state has lost its voting rights, but we must pour ourselves pure wine. This is due to poor and irresponsible management of state property. Because the legislation is clear. The regulator, the Securities Market Agency, did not deprive any of the companies of voting rights in good eyes, but only because the legislation had been violated. However, the legislation was breached by the fact that the State purchased shares on the market directly or with the related companies, despite being contrary to the Takingover Act. And no one wonders where the responsibility is! Each purchase of shares that resulted in the loss of voting rights by the State shall be signed. No one here asks who is responsible for losing voting rights. Nobody! There are exceptions. It is also worrying that you are not coordinated within the coalition. The SD also has a lot of concerns. But here you will go the other way: let us accept this today, and then we appeal to the Government to correct the matter. Of course, you will take time at congregations from June to September so that you can replace the oversight councils in those societies where this is appropriate. Then do not sell the story that there will be a public interest in the return of voting rights to the Insurers of Triglav. For your purpose will be solely to replace the existing Supervisory Board at the Triglav Insurance. The insurance company Triglav is not the only insurance company in Slovenia. We've got more. The insurance company Triglav cannot be of public interest. You have no criteria in the public interest! Therefore, the question for you, Madam Secretary of State: What are the criteria of public interest? Name one company that went bankrupt because the owners lost their voting rights! It's not good what's done in the National Assembly! The law must apply to all, and the country must not be an exception. This is why once again: the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party follows the proposals and comments of the market regulator. The government has decided not to take into account the comments, proposals by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly – okay! I do not understand, however, that you do not take into account the comments, proposals and any warnings made by the regulator of the Securities Market Agency. The Securities Markets Agency has made clear that there are no specific criteria and the ATVP will have problems in decision-making. Say, Madam Secretary of State: Will the public interest also be the replacement of the members of the Supervisory Board? When you make a proposal to the Agency, will you give it exclusively for the items of the agenda of the assemblies to talk about financial restructuring on ensuring capital adequacy? And you will deny – just give us our voting rights there to save the company, not to replace the control councils. Once again, there can be no public interest – today we live in a market economy, we have more entities and there can be no public interest if we have ten insurance companies in Slovenia or 20, Insurance Triglav. It is a great fear that this law is exclusively adopted at a given time with a certain purpose that you will be able to control societies, to replace members of the Supervisory Board and, consequently, the administration. And that you will set up your own people and that you will keep the companies in control! Too many things have happened in the Insurance Office Triglav: inadequate management, poor business results, declining premiums on the market. These are all consequences of mismanagement, mismanagement. The withdrawal of voting rights is due to poor and ineffective management of state property. Under any such mandate, there is a signature and it is known exactly who is responsible that the State has lost its voting rights. Once again, in the event that this amendment is not accepted by the Slovenian Democratic Party, legislation is being played, small shareholders are being played, the aim of which would be to protect – the takeover law is contrary to the European acquis, it is opposed by the professional public, everyone. But be aware: you accept responsibility for all of this!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you. Is there anyone else who expresses interest in the debate and the replica? It's a replica. Mr. Matjaž Han, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u40	The replica, if you want, given that the Social Democrats have been mentioned many times in the last two executions. First time. Marko, I could agree with you in some of your statements, but I would like to remind you that we are the Social Democrats, when you took power, when this new authority was formulated, over and over again, that the state does not have voting rights in very important state-owned companies, and that some small shareholders may also be played, but not only small, but they can also be speculators and can somehow manage property, even though they do not have enough shares. We Social Democrats warned us for a year and a half to fix the law, and we were not satisfied with the ATVP. We were not satisfied with his decisions, especially when he began to speculate on the part of the Insurance Company Triglav itself, that small shareholders would take over the supervisory board of the Assembly and that the President of the administration would be the same Mr Žugelj, who had seized the rights of the State in this matter. Just as you draw from the clocks, we draw certain things from the clocks and want to correct them in some way with legislation. We know that this law, this novelty is not going in the right direction, so we have warned the Government, the Ministry of the Economy, and I believe that we will correct this matter as soon as possible so that there is no confusion. But I agree with you, Marka, every contract, every agreement has a signature on the left and on the right, and when we start calling these people responsible in some way, this Slovenia will be much more beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. The first one gets the word, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I will support our amendment, of course. A few days ago, we were able to read in the Journal the title Rules for All, but not for the State. We have been alerting or constantly talking about the poor conduct of certain areas, so we also wanted to arrange things with the Slovenian State Holding. Remember the whole crop rotations in the last year, so in the last year, how we didn't and we couldn't get to the holding company, how many ideas there were, how things needed to be arranged differently. At the end of the day, we will still have an obvious holding company, but practically what I am in Parliament, we are dealing with how the country mismanagements its shares. A whole bunch of discussions about the Capital Investment Management Agency, a whole bunch of the funds that the state is spending on recapitalisations, etc., instead of this so-called silver, sometimes gold, I don't know what it is that it's already making to the state of revenue, but it doesn't bring it to us, but we have a lot to invest in it. What happened, as my colleague said, because of the takeovers, as stipulated in the legislation, those who should have done so did not do so, but the Agency for the Market in Paper Values took away their voting rights. As soon as this legislation was being prepared, it was said that it would cause problems for the country, but because we move people from one place to another, even though they are doing a bad job, to an even better job, and these people are just going from one company to another, or from one to another, the supervisory world – because when we look at it a little, there are more or less of the same names in state companies – and until we start dealing with responsibility, who has not done their job well and so have been sanctioned and not rewarded with a better place, we will have problems. The country has introduced these rules with the shares of connected persons precisely so that the legislation will not be played out, now that it has some problems itself, because those we have put up for it have not done their job and we will organise the rules for ourselves. Once again, the rules must apply to everyone, including the country, and therefore, as I say, I will support the amendment we tabled. At the same time, what is the public interest, what is the national interest, we should probably sit down and talk about it, because obviously everyone represents something else under that word and that is why we cannot agree. The answer to this was a strategy, what we can sell, what we estimate is not necessary, that the state is the owner, and we did not have to deal with it or that was rejected in Parliament. Now we have a set of companies, again we don't know what the criteria are, and again it seems to someone that something is in the national interest, something is not, something is right to sell, something is not, and here we are constantly arguing about the same things, instead of sitting down, adopting a strategy and then things would be clear. Of course, there would also be clear directions for those who would then have to sell these shares, buy, whatever way we want it to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you. Next, I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Since I've been in this Parliament, and it's been a long time, we've practically always had the takeover law on the wallpaper, they're always novels. I don't know if I'm right in my memory, but those first variants were written by Mrs Nina Plamez, then in the role of Secretary of State, so Mrs Andreja Kert feels a little ashamed to be sitting in the same seat at the moment, but it turned out that Mrs Plaměgová was writing laws not in the interest of the State, because she was sitting in the civil service in the middle of the seat and Mrs Klemenčičev was sitting at the Insurance Office of Triglav, which later turned out to be in the interest of the State, and so on. And she wasn't the only secretary of state who did that! Of course, I am also skeptical of the current proposals, because if such hidden purposes as have been expressed here are really behind, the goal is to replace the supervisory councils of some extremely important, powerful, state-owned monopoly companies, then we know that the intentions are bad. Such intentions then lead to the consequences that have occurred in the case of Mercator, when public interest was defended two years ago, and public interest was the most detrimental to that interest. In fact, you had key levers at the time – Mr Jamnik, Križanič, Fat and so on. The last time I read Mr Damjan's opinion that, as a result, we should receive more penalties in a court of law than the gentleman in Mercury – he even mentioned a slightly-potential multiple, 38 times as many – that I do not know what kind of crime happened. I was a little late, Mr President, you were just discussing when I came to the hall, but I went with Styria – there were traffic accidents and I couldn't get there sooner. But you've been explaining your current views of high treason, as you've called it recently. On the left you are always artists of transformation, metamorphosis; obviously you have read Kafko, Metamorphosis, already in primary school, although even a high school student cannot understand them well. In fact, these things lead to an even greater confusion, now justifying all the things that you had previously opposed and done to the State, as the situation has deteriorated dramatically in some places. When we talk about these connected persons, how to prevent the operation of these connected persons, let them be natural or legal persons when it comes to taking over Slovenia, all persons connected. It is not just a legal term; it is in fact those who have capital, whether it be here or in tax havens, which is now most in tax havens, interlinked, because someone else in this country cannot normally get to fair capital, to the amount of money. And here's the problem. This is so connected, to the ends of all these, that the country will then be threatened for a long time. I am sure that many in this country have the cheap or stolen money that the state now lacks because it has failed, has disappeared, but has not blown away. Now the goal is to get the best possible conditions for investing this money back. Even so, for decades to come, Slovenian society will be marked by the fact that capital, the management rights of the people who stole will mostly be achieved by the people who stole, because they will now be able to raise this capital back through straw companies and straw people. And they want to put him on the best possible terms. They're not gonna stop like that. When we are so far away that we are in doubt when marriage is on the table, we must be in doubt because you are changing your attitude daily! It is so important that we should speak the same language as you speak today. In this case, I would trust you if you persisted in what you said before — but you made a salad of mortals! Totally! But when a sportsman makes a salad mortal, one in ten happens to break his spine, and no one in politics with us, it's a daily practice! For this reason, I will support our amendment, because for the purpose of some public interest, we will base everything you do and replace the supervisory councils, as you did at the Ljubljana Bank 10 days ago, where you probably did not change for the better, but for the worse, because you have removed people, the supervisory councils, who have not yet been associated with the Slovenian capital underworld, in this respect. Where there is a longer lever for influence – you have eliminated it and we must reach the guards so that from now on the public interest will be truly respected and respected. I believe there is a public interest. However, I cannot accept your definitions of public interest, which are different every day, and they are a gainful public interest – not for the country, but for certain, I will say once again, connected persons. Here are all connected persons, perhaps not in the sense that they are now just written here. Because I have a long history of how, when left governments, state secretaries, people, lawyers, they worked, they wrote laws, so that a specific target group or target person could take over. At that time, it was written for the Triglav Insurance Company under the leadership of Nada Klemenčič. It's so hard to trust and it's necessary to make guards so that it doesn't happen any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you, too. I now give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Given that I do not have as long a parliamentary internship as Mr Jerovšek, I still have hope or believe that any proposal by the opposition can ever be accepted in the National Assembly if the legislation improves significantly in this regard. Maybe I'm naive, but maybe I'll wait. But when we do, then I think that we will be on the right track, that we will all want to adopt good legislation. Sometimes I get the feeling that the Legal and Legal Service is an opposition service. First of all, government Members should demand from their government, always, any one, that their government comply with the legislation already in force and also with the arguments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Because in the end, what happens? We are responsible for the adoption of legislation and the government will wash its hands. That is why I think it would be good for the coalition to think and think at some point, but above all, it demands its government to respect, take into account the legislative and legal proposals and also accept any proposal from the opposition. Then we will also make a significant, positive leap in our decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you. I'm guessing everyone you've been reported to have discussed it. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I invite you to report. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. In view of the participation and the assembly in Parliament, you can see that there is a good time outside and, most of the time, somewhere else with thoughts, despite the adoption of very important legislation. I didn't want to replicate my colleague Han earlier, but I'm glad he partly agrees with my thesis and my debate. Indeed, more than a year ago, the Social Democrats proposed to amend the Law on takeovers, mainly for reasons that said it was probably pointless that the country had a 75 % stake in a society, was taken away from it by voting rights and then by minority shareholders. That's what I agree with. But then why did we reject this proposal? Mostly because the regulator disagreed with him. It seems to me that it is important to follow the regulator's opinion, because otherwise it is better to stop the ATVP and move the regulator to Gregorčič. We are in the European Union, and I do not think that this can be the case and that laws must apply to all. Above all, it is important that the Takeover Act is primarily intended to protect small shareholders. I agree that it is likely that some investment of 50 million plus, which is now envisaged by the Ljubljana Airport and that the country has its voting rights, will be decided by small shareholders. Clearly because of the issues of financial consolidation, financial restructuring, greater investment. I personally have no objection to the Agency returning voting rights in these cases. I propose that you also follow and support our amendment, which specifically speaks of the fact that we explicitly stipulate that the appointment or replacement of members of the Supervisory Board is not an act necessary to realize the public interest. I am sure, colleague Han, that you will agree with me here that the investment envisaged by the Aerodrome Management Board is not important to replace the Supervisory Board and that the state does not have voting rights here. The law must apply to all the same. Of course, the question also arises that we are adopting this law, the addition of the takeover law, and tomorrow the state will decide on the first privatisation package. There is no holding company, there are no clear criteria for how all of this will be recorded – this supplement. How this will affect the interest of serious investors. I think that Slovenia, with such acts, is once again closing its doors to serious investors. For they will be afraid to enter into a market where it is known that if the country fails to do so, it will change the law overnight and they will be able to lose all their assets. I think the state is showing its power in a fundamentally opposite direction as it should. In particular, the task of the State is to ensure a favourable environment, a competitive environment and that in this competitive environment all have equal rights and equal obligations, not that there is an exception. It is also problematic that now, if our amendment is not adopted, we will get new disability legislation, but we will not talk about any disability legislation, and we will discuss at the next point where there is no debate where the state will decide to issue guarantees without guarantees. That's irrational. You ignore the regulators, you ignore the legal services of the National Assembly. Everything. You want to hit everyone, show your strength. I suggest you show your strength in another way where you have this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I invite you to report. No one's registered. I'd like to ask you again for an opportunity to apply. A quorum or a card would be good to check. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u50	I'll be very brief. I thought I'd call Mark with a replica. These facts of yours and the list you told me are partly true. But I have two things to say. When you say we're going to put serious investors at risk so they don't come to Slovenia. We won't, Marco, we won't! A serious investor coming to Slovenia will want to have a significantly higher share than 10. 20%; he will want to have a share to manage the factory, production and so on. So he'll go shopping 100% if he's a serious investor, otherwise he's a speculator. Second. You told the airport. Social Democrats are absolutely in favour of making this investment, which is also supported by European funds, that is the first. This investment is important in several respects for, not Slovenia, even if we sell the company, because we will make a competitive airport. That's the first one. Secondly, there is a lack of investment in Slovenia. Since the financial structure is closed, it would be crazy to say that this investment is not being invested. But since the state did not have these rights in the congregation and did not set up such a supervisory council, the supervisory council is set up at the will of small shareholders who can have legitimate and fair and good, I will say, wishes. But you'll probably be defended by small shareholders. However, small shareholders will not have the money they have in their deposits, and so on, expose and invest in an investment, but will want their capital, accumulate their money by selling to the Aerodromes, collect money and take the capital out. I think it's a bit of a puzzle with logic. However, the country has an interest, even if it sells to the Aerodrome, in order to build a second terminal before that, that we are ready for new tourists, for the arrival of new people, and that in some ways we will also make a number of investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Mr. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Perhaps my colleague Han misunderstood me, so I would like to explain once again where I see the danger or that it will be a bad signal for serious investors. In particular, when investors see how the state works: it adopts laws contrary to what the regulator proposes, it does not take into account the regulator's comments, it does not take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. What will this investor or investor expect? There will probably be a fear that even if I buy 60, or 70% of the company, or 75% – where it has ensured that the country will not remember in six months and that it will not adopt such legislation, that if the country stays with a 10% stake in it, they will write that the state has a ten-fold voting rights in the assembly. These must be bad signals going this way. They don't take these matters into account. So once again, I suggest you support our amendment. This amendment is only going in this direction to take into account the comments and proposals of the regulator and it is explicitly stated that we provide that the appointment of the Supervisory Boards of Members is not in the public interest. I think we need to take into account the regulator's comments and proposals. Above all, it should also be stressed that the legislation has already been amended by the Government of Janez Janša and that the threshold has risen from one quarter to one third. That he took a step further. However, we must be first, Members and Members of Parliament, so that we do not promote violations of the law. Today, by pressing the button against our amendment and pressing the button for this proposed amendment, you will go primarily into violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u54	All day or since nine, I was convinced that we were talking today about the takeover law, about protecting our national property. And I'll try to comment on it the way I listened here. Mr Pogačnik, when you spoke about the importance of today's meeting – I fully agree with you. Since then, you have been sitting in the National Assembly of the Party from which you come from four. That means it's one thing to talk and another to work. If it's important, then it would be right if we were here. I ask from the opposition Mrs Novak: How many amendments were adopted in your mandate when you were in the government? None. Luckily, I'm here for my first term, my first year and a half, I'm sorry. And unfortunately, we don't listen to suggestions that sometimes we don't hear each other. If I'm trying to do it in kind. I think it is our job to protect our state property and, speaking of which, we cannot say that if the country is a 10% owner, it will have 10 times the voting rights. She will have as many voting rights as she has the property. This should be protected by the State and done by us; we are protecting our common state property so that we can manage and have voting rights. When we talked about what we talked and listened to here today, we talked very little about the takeover law, we talked about everything else. Don't mind if I comment on what others have said or said — for example, Mr. Cernač. It seems impossible for me to believe that the former Energy Minister who signed it, who was in the first Yangtze government — the first Yangtze government, the Pahor government and the second Yangtze government — all supported TES! Today, the minister, who had the task of protecting our investment in Block 6, is talking about not even giving the euro to this investment. Where are we, ladies and gentlemen, that those who were ministers six months ago today say they don't trust what happened? The second is what we did here in the National Assembly and what we signed here, but one is what the Minister of State says, and we will have to answer slowly. Mr. Jerovšek speaks like this. It says that capital is moving into the oasis, that it certainly knows that it is connected; that those who are no longer in the control world of the New Ljubljana Bank are not connected to the underworld. If any of you ladies and gentlemen know that this is happening - say yes, for God's sake, once this!Oh, my God! Tell them, report them, do what you know, but do not speak, and cause confusion among men, if you do, but he will know, for he is a messenger. Just as the secretaries of the left-wing governments wrote laws that they could then make packers with. That was said just before that. This is no way to speak in the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. Prove it, say it by name, he did it! Have what men should have, and more wives than just us! It is true that we spoke and were against the strategy, but remember how SDH was designed at the time, i.e. Slovenian State Holding. Who owned Slovenian property? Remember what a bad bank was then, and remember what the responsible minister, who negotiated with the energy unions, agreed with them. He agreed that half of Slovenian energy could be sold – without criteria, only the agreement was between the two negotiators. That's why it's not right. I strongly protest that today it is simply a matter of replacing the supervisory councils. That's not how it works. Of course, I agree that it would be right for us to replace our colleague Shirtzl, because he is not in a position to be replaced as the non-executive director, and we have not done so. This is one of the typical proofs that we do not do what we have said — what we have heard here today. That's it. Mixing the law here today is not a legal state because someone is convicted and the other is not convicted. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a state of law! Right, the courts are working, and I believe they're going to catch all the tycoons. But I will be very pleased with those of you who know about them that you will tell their names, that you will put the evidence on the table, and that we will make an end of them. When they move back the Euros they took away, what you know about it, then we win!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak asked for the replica, then Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u56	Dear Mr. Meh! You have a bitter experience when you were in the opposition for one year, and it certainly seemed unfair to you that your good suggestions, the amendments do not accept that the coalition does not accept them. I completely agree with you. Based on your experience, I think it would be wise for you to try to do something different now. I have always advocated that good proposals should be supported, and if you have noticed, New Slovenia is doing so now and we are not changing our position on whether we were in the coalition or were in the opposition. That way, we have every chance of getting better together.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u57	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u58	Mr Meh is protesting, in my words, that in the past some left-wing politicians, when they were officials, were making laws that were in favour of a specific or a group of dedicated people. I have this experience. For the person I mentioned, I also know that she transferred immediately to the Triglav Insurance Company and that there was a lot of work to be done to make that takeover. But I fought on this segment, and then we got together with the finance minister, Mr Robb, who fought against it, and me and some others saved Rob from the majority backstabbing, of course, on the left. As far as I'm concerned, you have to tell me your names. We see the consequences. Mr Meh, Slovenia's largest money pool is now present in TEŠ 6, and you know a lot about it. On one occasion, I was on the Finance Committee when we were making a guarantee and I only got into a tiny segment — the chemical preparation of the water. The original offer was 5 million, by the time we discussed it had already come to almost 10 million, and once again it had increased. And I know this area, and I know it's a fraud, because I used to do chemical water preparation in another factory, such an investment in water. The offer can be exact, it can't grow. He can't! Plus, I think that because it's doing chemical water preparation now that's bigger than what's going to be needed for TES 6 we could use the present that's modern. Maybe they didn't make any new ones! This is the originator of money, and I ask that those who come from that end tell you the names that are directly to blame, that this coinbreaker of money exists in Slovenia, and that it will weigh down the next generation. I wasn't against TES 6, but that's not how investments are made. Such an investment can also be fixed by a maximum of 10 % of the moving part, but this was only a chemical preparation of the water, which is an exact project, and is probably unnecessary in Šostanje, because it is now more water preparation and modern. This is a purely fictitious investment and it's within TES 6 and that's why it went into billions. But if honest people were to run an investment there, it wouldn't be. Tell me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u59	It's been three minutes, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u60	Tell me, please, who is responsible for having this pulpit that will push the Slovenes into their next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u62	Before that, I had just forgotten something very important; it is not only that you have to support the opposition's amendment, but that we are warning you. The Legislative and Legal Service also has a number of comments and it is right to respect and respect this. If we don't take this into account, the marriage will be bad, with a lot of holes, and we'll all have problems together.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Because no one else wants to discuss you with the government? [[...]] Here you go, Mrs. Andrea Kert.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Since the question was clearly raised, it is right that I am also trying to answer, although I believe that Mr Han and Mr Meh have already been answered in the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u65	Your time is up, I'm sorry. Just a short sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u66	O.K. I would just like to point out that the ATVP was involved in the preparation of this law. For example, Article 22c was also prepared in cooperation with them. As regards public interest and this matter, what was most debated, this was prepared in cooperation with the ATVP. Unfortunately, then, I apologize for not being able to give any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u67	Here you go, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that we have some time left, and I see that he has run out of time in the parliamentary group, I am interested in whether there will be an additional allocation of time for discussion at this point or not. In view of the fact that some things should be re-emphasized, they are very strongly linked to this amendment to Article 1 of the Act, where there was talk about how and how legislative mechanisms should prevent interference with individual companies. One of these political interventions, the product of which is a political investment, of course TES 6, Mr Meh knows this very well because it comes from that end and he knows well what has been going on in the last ten years in this area. If this were not the case, in a political way, if it were primarily in the economics game, then I firmly believe that there would be a strategic partner there today who would invest his capital in this investment, ensure its proper profitability, and the investment would probably stop there somewhere between €800 and €900 million and nothing more. Not as we now hear it will amount to €440 million; for if this happens, then the National Assembly must immediately withdraw the State guarantee and demand that someone else complete the investment with their own resources. I have said this comparison about investing in this project in this way, as has actually been the case. At the time when this guarantee was dealt with in the National Assembly, Mr Meh said that he believed in this investment so strongly that he was prepared for half of his house. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u69	You have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u70	Yeah, because I'm explaining what I said in the beginning is that he's willing to invest half of his house in this project. All I told him today is that he is very brave – I hope that this intention has also been realized and that this contribution is already there and will reduce this poor profitability of this investment – that I myself would not do so if I were him. I would not even invest the euro – given the way in which the investment is managed, given its profitability, in view of what is happening with this investment, and given that it is always governed by a policy on behalf of this public interest, which we are also talking about today, by decisions taken at the time of the Pahor government, namely the government of the Social Democrats in 2011, it has caused this country to sell Mercator for half the price, as it was then in force, to the same buyer as it did at the time. Thus, the same buyer Agrokor was prepared two years ago to pay 400 million euros for this Mercator more at the time of the Pahor government. Of course, this story stopped and we're where we are today. I have a procedural question: Will it be possible to divide the time given that the time group has run out so that these things around the amendments can be cleared up?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u71	I will give it to you on a procedural basis immediately, Mr Meh, but I would now like to make this procedural proposal by Mr Zvonko Černač, who has also turned this procedural proposal into a debate. In accordance with Parliamentary practice, it is possible to redistribute time when no amendments are tabled. The amendment has now been tabled and parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to debate, so I will conclude the debate. Here you go. Procedural proposal, Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u72	I will take this procedural opportunity to propose procedurally that we respect the rules of procedure and not do what Mr Montenegro has proposed. Once again, it is very dirty that the former investment minister today is talking about this investment as a bad investment. You should have done that when he was a minister. And if the question is, what is the difference between Mercator 400 million and 100 million — the government of Janez Janša! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Zvonko Blackach then mag. Marco Pogačnik. However, I warn you, if you go into a substantive debate, I will have to stop you. Here you go, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u74	An MP who wishes to talk about breaches of the Rules of Procedure should be given the floor immediately. You did it — okay. The President, but on the other hand, you are also obliged to sanction a Member who violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and this says publicly that he will do what Mr Meh has done before me. In the context of this procedural proposal, I expect you to give him appropriate punishment: either by public warning or by way of a fine, as we have stated in the Rules of Procedure, for violating the conscious provisions of this Rules of Procedure, otherwise you will be in breach of it yourself. On this occasion, however, no minister led an investment in TES 6. No minister in any government led an investment in TEŠ 6, nor did the former Minister of Montenegro. This investment was led by Holding Slovenian power plants. You've been in the control world for some time, and you're responsible for this: even more, you believe in this investment and invest your own resources in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u75	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. It seems extremely unrealistic for the Government to take only 5 minutes to complete the takeover law in such an important way. This is extremely unrealistic, and it tells us what the relationship is. First, they ignore the market regulator, the Securities Market Agency. Other [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u77	Procedural proposal. That's their thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u78	The procedural proposal is in the sense that it is proposed that – secondly – the Government ensure that it takes the appropriate quota of time to avoid ignoring it. For it is for me to ignore the Members and Members who ask the question. I didn't get an answer to any of the questions I asked! In the introductions you chose to ignore the ATVP, then you chose to ignore the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and now you are ignoring Members. I think that's extremely unserious. The Minister should ensure that if you, the distinguished Secretary of State, are unable to answer these questions and that you have taken so little time, then it is proposed that other representatives of the Government, other representatives of the Ministry, come. I am sure that if State Secretary Gaspar Gaspar Mišič were here, the debate would be more varied and that he would answer questions and that he would also say that we probably already have some investors for some society. You're quiet. You haven't answered a single question. I do not think we should allow this House to have such an ignorant attitude towards Members, to take five minutes of time; there they read, and then they have 30 seconds for parliamentary questions. That's not serious! In the future, I propose that the Government take more time in such important matters so that you can answer questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u79	Now, honourable Members, I would like to warn you: we will also conclude the debate on a procedural proposal by Matjaž Han. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u80	I mean, Vice President, we should react. You know that the legislative branch of power and the executive branch have its powers and that it cannot impose certain facts on one another. At least, Marko, you. I would suggest that, as a gentleman, because I know that you are, you come to the lady who is the new secretary of state – given that you were the secretary of state, that you were President of the Court and so on – that you advise that in such cases you should take a little more time and not get upset in front of the entire Slovenian public. As a gentleman, I'd warn her, and I'd say, "Secretary of State, secondly, it's much wiser for you to take a little more time, and we'll sort it out." In this way it is a shame to perform and excite the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u81	In view of the fact that I said before that I am concluding the debate – Mr Horvat, did you have an important procedural proposal? Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states: "A Member who wishes to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure – a procedural question – shall be asked by the President as soon as he requests it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than three minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." So, please hold this tightly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I know we're all in one piece of trouble right now. I will not attack Mrs State Secretary, as no one is attacking her, but procedurally, Madam Vice-President, I would suggest, given that, after any indiscretion, the Government is running out of time, although the Government needs time, I would ask if I can get an answer to my question. I asked only modestly: What will be the effect of the enforcement of this law on decisions on the construction of terminal 2 at the Ljubljana Airport? Thank you so much for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Given that the time has run out for the government and because I do not have the right to give it — I am taking the time in this direction — the government will answer your question in writing. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. I see another voice. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, procedurally by the SDS were two procedural proposals, so what is it? [[...]] Do you have a procedural proposal? Please stick to what it means to Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you. That's all I'd say to my colleague Han, because he said some things wrong and you could point him out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u85	If it's not substantive, if it isn't, I'll interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u86	You'll hear what it is, it's a procedural proposal. We can impose a lot on the government, Mr. Han. What you said we should coordinate and talk more and so on – we agree with this, but it is not a matter of us, we are in the opposition this moment, we have had a partnership between 2004 and 2008 and we have coordinated with you, last year we have coordinated with you: holding, strategy, we have coordinated everything with you, and you write a list of companies that we will sell, not for a minute do you coordinate things with us, so it is not a problem in us, but in you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I didn't quite understand your procedural proposal, I must say. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for Resolution and Prestructuring of Economic Companies in Difficulties, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Andrei Kert, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Once again, welcome in my name. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. This amendment was led by the state of the companies in Slovenia, which, due to a credit crunch which has further exacerbated the conditions for obtaining credit resources for financing investments and operating capital, has steadily deteriorated. The capital structure of companies in this asset burden does not allow the financing of both current transactions and the development investment of companies. In view of the above, it is appropriate to provide State aid to companies in such a situation with a survival perspective by means of a process that will lead to the fastest and most effective realization. It is therefore proposed to remove restrictions that guarantees and loans as a form of State aid must be adequately secured by appropriate insurance. According to the definition of the law, an individual economic company may only be granted State aid provided that it is not in a position to stop negative business movements by its own resources or by the means of its shareholders or creditors. Therefore, without trying to cut into these procedures quickly and efficiently, they will not be able to survive independently on the market in the long term and consequently cannot meet the legal requirement for quality insurance. Both movable and immovable property and other forms of insurance of such companies are generally already burdened by mortgages or flags, which consequently also means the inability to provide quality insurance. This is how a proposal for these changes is made in order to make this necessary. I would like to point out that the law states that we do not require adequate insurance does not mean that adequate insurance will not be required in the process of obtaining the guarantee or credit. However, because of this, in the event that the company cannot provide for this, this will not be legally impossible. So it will be judged from case to case. In order for this insurance to be made subject to State aid claims in cases where there is no insurance, the State would not put it in a worse position and in the event that insolvency proceedings have been initiated for the recipient of the State aid, these claims shall be considered as a priority in payment and become priority claims. In this way, this law now plays an lex specialis role in relation to the Financial Business Act in insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Pavlič, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy is at its 32nd emergency meeting. 6. 2013 dealt with the above-mentioned proposal for a law. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 56th session. 6. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Finance, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made specific comments to the individual articles of the bill, namely Articles 1 and 3 and 2 and 4. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. Within a set time limit, none of the qualified applicants tabled amendments to the draft law. With regard to the comments made in the written opinion of the Office, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service drew attention to the dispute raised by the proposed solutions from a legal and legal point of view, in particular with regard to credit insurance, insolvency proceedings, the introduction of a new case of priority claim and the introduction of a new exemption from the principle of equal treatment of creditors. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed support for the proposed solution, which they considered to be an appropriate basis for the legal and transparent granting of aid and for the effective restructuring of firms in difficulty. On the contrary, other discussers pointed to some of the problems and dilemmas of the proposed law. Among other things, the lack of transparency in resolving firms in difficulty and clear criteria and criteria for granting State aid has been highlighted. Some discussers drew attention to the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service regarding the appropriateness of the proposed solution from a legal and legal point of view. However, individual discussers expressed concern about the granting of State aid or guarantee without insurance and the possible negative consequences of the State budget. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Given that the Committee on the Economy has not received any amendments to the draft law as its parent body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u92	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. In addition to the Law on takeovers, we have recently received another law on the parliamentary bench, which we are dealing with under urgent procedure – the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. Since it is already a second amendment to the legislative procedure put into place by this government, it seems that it is not only an economic society but also a government that obviously does not have a clear concept and thus proposes to the National Council of Laws. The novelty brings such changes that we cannot agree with in the Slovenian People's Party. What do we want to draw attention to in this novel law in the Slovenian People's Party? We all know the problem of Slovenian state-owned banks and we all know what their key reasons are for the problems they face – none other than taxpayers. Hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros were needed and will still need to be saved by Slovenian banks. Why? Because they were lending without adequate insurance or even without insurance and when the companies got in trouble, the banks were left unpaid. Members of this Parliament and Members of this National Assembly have made such a business model of state-owned banks all in a row, without exception condemning us, because in such a way, with such a business policy, they have brought us into great difficulty, probably no one here will deny it. We have even initiated a parliamentary investigation for this reason. We have serious problems in the country because of this bad practice, and some have obviously learned nothing from it. Now, at least we hope the banks have broken off this bad practice, with their work they have already done more than too much damage. Now the government wants to transfer this bad practice to a country that will be new, i.e. with this amendment of the law, it can legally grant guarantees and loans to companies without any insurance; in other words, the government will now continue this poor banking policy. We are seriously concerned about this in the Slovenian People's Party. Have we really not learned nothing from irresponsible banking and the place of the century in Slovenia? Or the government and the coalition have other purposes and will now bring into law the legal basis for granting state aid without any – I repeat, without any insurance. For Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, this is, among other things, just one more proof that the Government and the coalition speak one thing and do something else. In any case, we will be very careful to monitor whom and under what conditions these aids will be granted. We know of a number of societies that are in one way or another linked to influential policies and that these societies are long-distance. On this, believe me, we will take special care in the Slovenian People's Party. There's something else we'd like to draw attention to in these recent changes. This is no longer about job creation, although some people have this population at hand all the time. This is about saving creditors, and these creditors already have insurance. So they also have an interest in saving society if such a society has a perspective if it has healthy cores. But who's in the interest of not saving their money to the creditors? These creditors are, as a rule, banks and for bad loans, the former government has prepared a solution, a bad bank, here is the Systemic Disposal Act, insolvency procedures. The President of the Government said that the bad bank would start taking over the claim in June, that is, this month. Credits must therefore be secured. However, insurance can be quality and less quality, with mortgages, shares in companies, securities, movables. In particular, credits and state guarantees must be secured; there is no doubt here. In the Slovenian People's Party, we ask ourselves and ask with us all the Slovenian public, what, or better said, is the real purpose of these new provisions, which leave any necessary insurance of state guarantees and loans. Who will thus take the right, if the law is passed, to share the money of taxpayers as Santa Claus? Let us not forget that the Minister of Finance recently acknowledged that the Government does not yet have any criteria and criteria for granting aid. I probably do not need to explain in particular how we will vote on Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Nevertheless, I will say that there will be no shadow of doubt: we will vote in favour of citizens and citizens and their hard-earned money; therefore, we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ivan Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear secretary with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will also unanimously support this law for the same reasons as the Complementary Act on takeovers. We believe that, while minor additions or changes are at stake, they can also be crucial in overcoming and solving the problems facing our economy. As we know, one of them is over-indebtedness and inability to borrow loans. A key reason for this is already the overburden of the company’s assets and the consequent inability to secure loans. In order to address these problems, the Government, as one of the measures, proposes solutions in this proposal for the law, eliminating the obligation to secure claims and guarantees for companies in need of state aid. We welcome this solution while stressing that it should only be for societies with a perspective that still have healthy cores that can realise visions of long-term existence and job retention. As appropriate, we have also assessed that it is appropriate and reasonable for the insurance of claims for State aid received in cases where an insolvency proceedings have been initiated over an economic company which is a recipient of State aid by providing these claims with an advantage in payment. In view of the fact that a number of companies currently dependent on State aid are waiting for State aid, such as Svea, Pekko, Maribor Foundry and Aha Mura, and given the fact that thousands of employees and thousands of their family members are in the hands of the State and politics, we consider it appropriate to act in a manner that allows them to live a decent life. Of course, it is also crucial that these previously mentioned companies and others not listed are in a similar situation, but we should also keep living for the sake of this, because I believe that such companies, which were once paraded horses of the Slovenian economy, can and should remain in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The text is by the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u96	Dear Chairman, welcome! As with the new takeover law in Novi Slovenija, we also have great reservations about the amendment of the law, which provides for help for firms in difficulty. These stem mainly from a government proposal that state aid, which is temporary and should also be returned by companies within a certain period of time, should be granted without any insurance. Such a proposal was also opposed by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion – once again when we do not take this into account. In Nova Slovenija, we are reminded that unsecured loans have brought us into the banking and later economic crisis, which has now plagued us for several years. Madam Secretary of State said earlier, from case to case, it will be assessed which aid will be given to the company. So we can count again on clientelism and the new robbery of the country. I wonder if that's what that means. We voted against such a proposal in Novi Slovenije on the home working body, but the government coalition confirmed the proposal, despite the warnings of the Legal and Legal Service and the Chamber of Commerce, for further consideration. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I call on you as long as it is time to reconsider: Is the granting of state aid without insurance an act that will get us out of the crisis? Is this responsible treatment of state property? Where is the public interest that we or some of you referred to so loudly and so strongly? New Slovenia will vote against the advanced novel because we believe that the solutions are incomplete and can very easily lead to irregularities and damage to the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u98	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State together with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law proposes that companies in difficulty which have an economically sound basis for eliminating negative business trends, but cannot obtain credit resources to finance investment and development under market conditions, be granted State aid. State aid will also be decided by the Commission by external experts, and today any lack of confidence in the Government in deciding on the granting of State aid is not correct. The broad debate at the committee's meeting also showed this, but some of us from the coalition seem to understand this kind of debate, as well as today's views, have already been heard that some want to demonstrate a more upright opposition attitude. If the matter were different, their position and debate would probably be different. The position of companies which have been further exacerbated by the credit crunch to obtain credit resources to finance investments and convertible capital is deteriorating. The capital structure in companies and the burden of assets do not allow for the financing of current business, nor for the development investment of companies. The requirement for insurance greatly impedes the granting of State aid to firms in difficulty, while their purpose is as soon as possible. The government wants to introduce a system scheme to help good companies when it comes to resolving the liquidity situation and capital adequacy in order to establish a longer-term business also when it comes to helping firms in difficulty. If you only help the company with liquidity, the story can be repeated in a very short time, as the company does not have the capital adequacy. The bill provides greater opportunities for efficient and real restructuring of firms in difficulty and improves opportunities for maintaining economic operators, jobs and thus create conditions for a more stable functioning of the Slovenian economic system. Economic performance is an important objective of social action, as it is an independent level of social state. These have been the cases of Svee lately, the cases of Pek and so on. So it's not a phrase, it's a real aid to firms in difficulty at the moment, unfortunately, they can't provide insurance to that extent, and so if they didn't support this change of law, they wouldn't be able to provide state aid. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Initially, it should be pointed out that the Slovenian Democratic Party, two months ago, when the government of Alenka Bratušek placed the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble on the table, fully supported the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the problem facing businesses today, and that is why we have supported this law. Today, after two months of adoption of this law, we have a supplement to this law. However, this amendment to the law is harmful, dangerous to taxpayers and to the budget, it treats creditors unevenly and therefore we will not support the addition of this law in the SDS Group. The guarantees are not rational, but it is even more irrational to treat creditors in an unequal manner, as has already been pointed out by the Committee on Economic Affairs in the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Above all, it is disturbing that the State will allow itself to re-emerge an exception and that their claims will be treated as a priority. This is an absolute violation of the ZFPPIPP and of the unequal treatment of creditors. It is important to be aware of when claims become priority, when claims become diversified, but this is mainly a country's manoeuvre that will allow for the playing of legislation and the misappropriation of creditors. The criteria for how guarantees will be granted without guarantee are not defined and we therefore estimate that there is a high risk that this law supplement is written for businesses, for rescues, only for those parties who will be favoured by the Government or in other words, we estimate that this law will probably save certain owners, not businesses. Slovenia and taxpayers have already lost too much money that we have invested in companies and then we have not saved them. A good example is the United States of America and Germany, which, of course, helped the economy, but within 6 months the country received all the money back, plus interest. It is very worrisome that in the proposal itself, the Government states that State aid is intended for companies that are not capable of self-sustaining on the market. That's worrying. There is no aid for companies that are not capable of self-sustaining on the market. It's like letting the dead lie in a hospital, but outside they'd be patients who could be rescued, but they'd lose their lives. Another point, even in the absence of support, is that the Government already clearly states that such state aid has been successful in just one quarter of the cases. This means that in three quarters the state lost funds. We have lost all taxpayers, which is why VAT is being raised today, property taxes are being imposed, that is all to the disadvantage of citizens and citizens. Guarantees – guarantees without guarantees are irrational, they do not make sense, we object. We are aware that it is likely that in these companies the movable, immovable property is already burdened, but we estimate that there are also other forms of guarantee, such as that the owners place their assets, in the event that the State gives the guarantee, or that an undertaking, if it is able to survive on the market, secures the guarantee with its claims, and we will by no means support the law which provides that the State can provide guarantees without guarantee. Above all, it should be pointed out that both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the professional public are opposed to such a way. In conclusion, once again, Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party all supported the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Companies in Troubles proposed by the Government of Alenka Bratušek two months ago, because we are aware of the existing problem and that the companies you can solve must be solved. However, we will not support this supplement, which foresees a guarantee without guarantee, because such guarantees are irrational, especially because of the classical infringement of the law, the unequal treatment of creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty relate to the elimination of the obligation to cover claims on State aid to companies in difficulty and the adjustment to the current situation during the financial crisis. The main solution is to remove the requirement for adequate collateral for the guarantee or credit, as such incompatible with the very nature of the reasons for granting State aid. Such a solution is necessary because many companies in Slovenia are over-indebted and have nothing left to be pledged. For this reason, such a solution allows for the rescue of companies which are not allowed by existing legislation. Social Democrats believe that jobs must be saved because it is the only way to help the economy get out of the crisis. The rescue of companies that are unable to resolve negative business movements by own resources or by means of shareholders and therefore need state aid is essential. This law provides for a greater possibility of efficient and real restructuring of firms in difficulty and improves the ability to maintain economic operators, jobs and conditions for a more stable functioning of the Slovenian economic system. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Marko Pavlisic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the law provides that the credit or guarantee obtained by an undertaking in difficulty under this law is no longer in need of insurance. This is a meaningful change, so we will support it in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. It is also appropriate to include such unsecured claims as a priority in cases where, despite the aid, the firm ends up in insolvency proceedings. Much more important than whether a claim is secured or not, the question is whether or not the company will be saved by means of aid, or whether we will only prolong the agony of workers and other stakeholders, or whether we will be able to maintain jobs and what distinguishes the company from the other sums of workers, machinery and buildings. Among other things, the real value of the company is satisfied and faithful customers, successful business processes, knowledge and brands, which are often difficult to establish. Under this law, any company can only receive assistance once, except in truly exceptional circumstances, and in this case the European Commission must grant this, which means that the government that takes decisions to help businesses is far from being responsible. He just doesn't have a case-by-case exam. The Committee's discussion repeatedly referred to the lack of transparency in the procedures for granting aid; someone received aid, the other did not, and the first could then constitute unfair competition for another. It is also true that most State aid has not produced the expected results. We believe that for most companies, including those in difficulty, much more could be done to improve their business environment. The money we spend on businesses would be better spent by reducing the taxation of work, not only helping businesses in difficulty, but also making it possible for those successful ones to have additional employment. But the best social assistance is to enable individuals to take care of themselves and their families by themselves. The timely rehabilitation of the banking system would make it easier for a company to access the necessary resources. In short, a number of assistance would not be needed if we had a more encouraging and friendly business environment. Instead of amending the aid law for a short time now, it would be better to focus on improving the business environment. Only one company benefits from the aid and all the business environments are already in place, as well as those that are yet to be established. Last but not least, we must ask ourselves whether we really want to deal with companies in difficulty in particular, and thus we may be in trouble to get some other successful company into trouble. However, as has already been said, the proposed amendment is a minor change, and we will therefore support the draft law in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 4a of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on agriculture and agriculture in Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this bill, the group of 40 Members and Members with their first signed magi is a group of 40 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the motions for Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we want to free the Slovenian farmer of monopolies and bureaucracy and enable him to make more free decisions and initiatives. I believe that this is the only way to ensure the long-term existence and development of Slovenian agriculture. Due to the many initiatives that Nova Slovenija has received from citizens and citizens, we have decided to submit a proposal for a new Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, proposed in Novi Slovenije, is without prejudice to the current statute of the Chamber. At this point, I would like to point out that the Chamber does not end, as is said and written in some media these days. We would also like to point out that the amendment and amendment of the law is without prejudice to the public service provided by the Chamber and financed by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill provides that natural and legal persons may voluntarily join the Chamber. Its adoption brings us closer to the constitutional principle of equality in the field of the organisation of the assembly system, as previously regulated by voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and also this year in the Act on Voluntary Membership in the Chamber of Commerce. The aim of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, hereinafter, will be to use the abbreviations of the KGZS that we have before us today, in particular to establish a more effective form of integration and representation of the interests of farmers, agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations. The bill also aims to administratively simplify the elections to the assembly bodies and to reduce disproportionately high costs for general elections to the assembly bodies. The bill is based on the principle of voluntary membership of natural and legal persons in the Chamber. The law regulates the relations between the Chamber and its members and does not provide for any activities or obligations of the State authorities in this regard. Following a proposal from the law, the costs of the chamber in this title will be reduced by simplifying the procedures for the conduct of elections to the assembly bodies. The Chamber deals with the issue of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, participates in the preparation of regulations relating to agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and draws attention to the consequences of these activities; the provision of training for farmers, promotion and cooperation with other organisations in the field of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. This bill doesn't end it. Today, the Chamber is funded from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, a consortium contribution. income is also generated through the provision of public services, and in recent years the Chamber has also focused on the provision of services provided as payment services to its members and non-members. Let me mention only some that are most commonly used as payable under its auspices, such as wine analysis, land analysis, business plans. We can say that the lack of interest in membership in the Chamber is already demonstrated by the participation in the current elections in the House: the Council of Chambers, the District Units and the Committees of Expositions. The last elections in 2012 are marked by extremely low participation – 16.33%. The voting non-participation is a reflection that the mandatory members of the Chamber have not taken their place, as they have not participated in the decision-making on the future of the housing organisation for the majority. The current electoral system is very complex and expensive, so in the paper we propose deleting the members of the current law that determine how elections are to be held. In the transitional and final provisions, we have stated that the Chamber must inform the members of the Chamber no later than three months after the entry into force of this Act that they have become voluntary members in the Chamber. The current mandatory members of the Chamber shall become voluntary members by the application of this Act and may, of course, withdraw from the Chamber if they so wish, after aligning their status with the law by a written declaration. However, the provision of this Article shall in no way affect the functioning of the public services provided by the Chamber. Under the current law, the Chamber represents natural persons or owners of agricultural land whose cadastral income exceeds EUR 106.88. The proposed amendment of this law will allow for the democratic integration of natural and legal persons whose activities are linked to agriculture, forestry and fisheries after 10 years. We recommend that you support the bill for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer and agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the government, present magus. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u108	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, C, and has found that the proposed law cannot be supported. The Group of Members and Members, with Mrs Ivo Dimic's first signed proposal to amend the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, proposes the principle of voluntary membership of natural and legal persons in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia, thus pursuing the objective of establishing a more effective form of integration and representation of the interests of farmers and agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations, as well as administrative simplification of elections to the bodies of the Chamber and reducing disproportionate high costs for general elections to the bodies of the Chamber. The applicant submits that, under the applicable law, the Chamber represents natural persons or landowners whose cadastral income exceeds EUR 167, which does not mean that these landowners actually carry out agricultural or forestry activities, nor does the natural person who has higher cadastral income show interest after representation in the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The proposer therefore proposes the abolition of compulsory and voluntary membership and changes in the area of elections to the Parliamentary bodies. The 42nd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks in particular of the right to assembly and association. The government notes that, following amendments to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia in 2004 and 2008, membership in the Chamber decreased from almost 173 thousand members to 112 thousand members. The threshold of cadastral income as a threshold for membership has risen by 100%, leaving only those linked to agriculture and forestry with mandatory members. The Slovenian Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is today a well-organised chamber, which is undoubtedly a representative representative of the interests of agriculture, forestry and fisheries and an associate of the government in the field of agriculture and rural development. It also follows from the existing system of law that, if you allow me to make a shortcut, KGZS is undoubtedly a representative body capable of representing very different interests in agricultural and forestry activities. The Chamber shall also be an interlocutor to the State in the preparation of expert opinions and in the procedures for the regulatory regulation of agricultural and forestry activities. Compulsory membership is the basis for identifying and adopting common interests, which consequently constitutes the basis for the State's direct and appropriate action. The government believes that the abolition of membership obligations would threaten to significantly reduce the number of members, we have such cases from a nearby neighbourhood, and the Chamber would lose its representation or important role in linking fragmented Slovenian agriculture. In all the strategic documents, in all the analysis of the situation, we find that fragmentation, integrability and poor organisation is one of the key structural weaknesses of Slovenian agriculture, which I would like to stress here. We also believe that when the Chamber or the Chamber does not have a mandatory membership, it will be a voluntary association that does not have public status and will therefore not be able to represent the interests of the group of its members as they are now, but will only represent the interests of the group of its members. As already stated by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a representative body is provided with compulsory membership. So we believe that these changes would require, for the first time, a comprehensive amendment to the law, and this would also have a major impact on the entire agricultural sector. At the same time, however, the Government supports the expert debate and arguments that the mandatory membership of the largest group of natural persons is limited to those actively linked to agriculture. So to open a debate on where this threshold for compulsory entry into the Chamber is. For these reasons, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The main change in this novel is the issue of membership in the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. This issue is also included in the draft law tabled in the legislative procedure by the SLS Group, and according to our information they also have a solution at the competent ministry. Whether to maintain compulsory membership or to define voluntary membership? Some advocate the preservation of compulsory membership, the reasons for which are: above all, that compulsory membership and thus the payment of membership are necessary to maintain the chamber itself, that the collected membership contributes to the functioning of the chamber – not in the essential work, but something contributes – that memberships are not even as high as in other chambers, for example, that members have a large selection of services provided to them by the chamber, and that services are so specific that a person does not belong to them — for example, in different invitations. Again, others advocate the establishment of voluntary membership for their own reasons: membership in most of the chambers is voluntary today, we voted in the final form in the crafts and confirmed volunteering. Even for those who are now based on compulsory membership, they tend to volunteer membership, as in the Health Chamber, for example, that those who do well, who provide their services properly and actually help people, have nothing to fear in terms of loss of membership and thus part of their income, because people will decide to be members of such chambers, that they must also be subject to the market, but not that they are powered by membership fees. We are not united on this issue. We have also, as the only coalition party, signed our signatures in order to have a general hearing, to hear arguments for membership and against compulsory membership. Because we think that we need to study this in detail and then press one or the other key. Pressures, requests and calls for mandatory membership on the one hand and voluntary membership on the other will certainly be high. Regardless of the diversity of our opinion in this part, we are united in our view that it would be prudent to ask members themselves about the form of membership, such as those of the referendum craftsmen. That would give us a clear answer as to what they really want. I therefore appeal not only to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, but to all that, in the form of membership in public, perhaps also in the form of a referendum question, those who are most affected by this; this is their members. Let them say so, and this decision would also constitute a valid argument for our Group of Members to make one or another decision. We too often take solutions beyond the will of those who are most touched or not asked for an opinion. Therefore, a referendum or other appropriate form of demand should be held and then a decision should be taken in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. New Slovenia delegation group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We will probably all agree that the current state or current arrangements for the membership and operation of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber are not good. Few say otherwise, and they too are increasingly lonely. That is why, at a time when we can already see the positive consequences of the organisation of voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce, many craftsmen and entrepreneurs are looking forward to voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, when similar changes are being discussed in the Chamber of Architects, the moment felt and decided also to allow the Slovenian farmer the constitutional right to freedom of choice, whether or not a member of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy. In doing so, we would like to point out in the New Slovenia Group that, with this novel, we do not in any way end the agricultural and farm halls, as some fear in these days of the farmer. It is important to be aware that by voluntary membership he will acquire both a farmer and a chamber that will have to do more, offer more to its members than ever before, and present the interests of all Slovenian farmers more decisively and fairly. If the chamber is doing well now, then there is nothing to be afraid of, for the vast majority of members will certainly be motivated to remain in the membership as voluntary members. Regarding one more important area, farmers in Slovenia are being intimidated in recent weeks, and I must say here in support of the proposal for amendments to the law: the proposal of New Slovenia is a public agricultural service, which is mostly very well carried out on the ground by agricultural establishments, not touching and not changing it! The public service financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore, remains at the current level and will be given the opportunity with the proposed amendments to make a good leap forward for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer. Care for the conservation and development of agriculture and forestry must be the responsibility of all companies and must not be placed on the shoulders of mandatory members of the Chamber solely because they are landowners. The importance of agriculture and forestry in Slovenia must be in the consciousness of all companies. We hope that through this amendment we have addressed most of Slovenia's political spectrum and that together we will allow a constitutional principle of equality in the field of assembly in Slovenia. The New Slovenia Group supports and considers the proposal to be suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u114	Colleagues and colleagues! Increase food production by appropriate and correct advice, not changes in organisation models. The text of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is the same text, which was submitted for adoption by the National Assembly in the previous term. At that time, it was decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration because the decision had to be respected. In Positive Slovenia, we note that the proposal, which only conveys the abolition of compulsory membership, does not provide the right answers to the challenges facing the agricultural policy of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems particularly problematic for us to discuss matters at the initiative of Members and Members, and not at the initiative of those most concerned, to be members of the Chamber. In Slovenia, we are facing a high degree of fragmentation of agricultural holdings, which in our view need additional professional support in order to be able to work successfully in tighter market conditions. And here we see the task of the chamber, which it carries out through its agricultural advisory service; a service that has proved to be a decisive factor in the development of Slovenian agriculture, forestry and rural areas in the past. Any weakening of the situation by abolishing compulsory membership would, in our view, have a negative impact at the time of the unfavourable financial situation. The representativeness of the institution would also be compromised, of course the state would lose a valuable interlocutor. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that compulsory membership at this time is the appropriate basis for ensuring and monitoring common interests, which is the basis for the country's direct and appropriate action. This, of course, does not mean that the situation and organisation at this time is optimal. Surely, a thorough consideration is needed as to whether the meeting really offers its members all that. What they need at a given time; of course, based on the objectives, let's ensure food for tomorrow, with an implementation plan for more efficient self-sustainment, with an effective agricultural policy, in particular the production of food with a higher added value. In view of the above, Positive Slovenia notes that the proposal cannot support the law, but, of course, we want the competent ministry, in cooperation with the Chamber, to carry out an in-depth debate and to find answers to the questions what kind of organisation would ensure that it retains all its functions today, while being more favourable to its members, and to lay down criteria for compulsory membership, namely those directly linked to agricultural activity or registered in the Register of Agricultural Economies, taking into account, in particular, the position or decision of membership. They should focus their energy on achieving strategic objectives, food security, ensuring quality food security, raising the competitiveness of agriculture and the food processing industry, increasing the added value in agriculture rather than in the business of organisational models. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u116	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. Let me start with a quote from the SDS program on how to edit the chambers. It says, quote: "The abolition of compulsory membership in all chambers, without exception, the transition to a private or voluntary model of chambers..." – there will be no evidence that we are talking and doing each other according to the position or opposition of the SDS party. So our position is clear: the SDS will support the law of its colleagues from New Slovenia. This was the position we had in the first attempt when the extraparliamentary party Nova Slovenije first proposed voluntary membership in the Agricultural-landing Chamber. This could, of course, conclude the position of the SDS Group, but allow a little more arguments why. It's been written in 2013, so it's been more than twenty years since we came out of the totalitarian system, where everything was mandatory; just like they said it had to be that we're all the same. In the sense that it's an army, it's an army for everyone. We are still following this policy from those times. If you are a student, you are a member of the Student Organisation, if you are a doctor, you are a member of the Medical Chamber, if you are a lawyer, and in this case, if you are a farmer, you are a member of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Thus we have in Slovenia over thirty chambers where you are a member of something if you are something. We wonder — why? Do we not think of democracy as a matter of supply and demand, where you are free to make your decisions and so on? Obviously, we are not here yet, and therefore, in the SDS Group of Members, we feel it is right to decide to support voluntary membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Why should someone be a member of something because of his status or profession? To pay for some choral contribution and not get what he expects in gratitude? Of course, one can benefit from this. Experience in all chambers shows that those who are more at the top of this pyramid tend to benefit from a larger piece of cake. There are exceptions, but there are smaller fragments. The Chambers are supposed to benefit their members, all their members, but the practice unfortunately shows a different picture. Of course, someone will say that they pay very small amounts, and I ask – why? Compulsory membership is coerced by members who force them to pay taxes, while congregational leadership usually sleeps. Why would the heads of the assemblies fight for members with various, friendly, and good measures, if members come and come because they are forced to do so because of their profession or status. However, if membership in an organisation is voluntary – here today we are talking about the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber – the management must make an effort to join them. In the SDS, we believe that this is the right way or approach. The law proposed by colleagues from Nova Slovenije on the basis of the proposal to introduce voluntary membership also proposes some other amendments resulting from the restructuring of the Chamber. That the work of the Chamber of Commerce is not all willful or not found in it or identified with it, it is also reflected in the low participation in the elections to date in the offices of the Chamber, which are also rather complicated and sometimes more political than professional approaches. It is therefore appropriate to amend the provisions on elections. Only a good dozen farmers go to elections, but with or without participation, members have to pay membership fees just because they have land, whether they are farming or not, they do not even know what the tasks of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber are and what benefits this can bring them. Well, the members are probably also dissatisfied with the various fights within the governing structures in the House of Functions and Positions. If we're just looking at the number of so-called functionaries within the Chamber, and I'm not going to go to this place to evaluate their work, we have the Council of the Chamber, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, arbitration, the Honorary Court, the District Units and their bodies or committees, the committees and committees of the Chamber, the professional services of the Chamber. It is likely that the operation is at least there for its own grinding rather than for its own membership or operation. It is therefore appropriate to give all those who do not wish to be members of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture an opportunity to step out of it. According to the SDS, this is exactly what will happen when the Chamber begins to become fully aware of its mission. If she does well, if her members benefit from it, she will probably get a lot back. Suma sumarum in the end can be re-elected as a member of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Of course, it's the system of supply and demand and not compulsory coercion. If the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is active, it will not fail, but if it is not active, we ask ourselves in the SDS who needs it at all. Also, the amount of congregational contributions collected compared to the other incomes of the Chamber shows that intimidation by the House Management is unnecessary and unnecessary, and on the other hand, it will be possible for almost 110 000 members to have the option of deciding on membership; they have not had these options so far. We support the existing situation that the draft law is without prejudice to the status and public powers vested in the Chamber and to the functioning of the public services in the Chamber financed by our country from the State budget. Here the Chamber does a lot of work, and we probably all agree, because we know that there must be at least a few lawyers and economists if it is to understand the whole system in addition to its professional work and all the changes in the field of legislation. In the SDS, we also believe that this proposal for a law is particularly welcome in these times when every euro turns around twice, and it is also welcome to respond to the policy of this government, which is planned – I do not believe that it does not know what would be even more sad – to the Slovenian countryside, especially agriculture. This is proved by the predicted property tax, the crazy desire to increase the cadastral income, which we raised by just a tenth for a year — and again not only by signs of totalitarianism but also by the signs of oppression when the tenth was collected. These are the crazy punishments of the Forest Act, where I also appeal to sober and cold heads in these times or circumstances not to mention further on this occasion. Members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also confirmed that members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry were in need of an active chamber. Voluntary membership has brought more activity if you want a more vocal chamber, which shows that the decisions of the National Assembly in the introduction of a voluntary membership system have been the right way and the right solution. In the SDS, we also want more active Agricultural and Economic Chambers, and we also want more active other Chambers, but not those where membership is compulsory, as it has been shown that mandatory membership does not make an optimal contribution to their members. In the SDS, we have made an international comparison of the regulation of the assembly system and the findings are a good basis for further action and action by the SDS party in this area. Last but not least, the website I propose.Government.si, where there is a very broad debate on the issue of the organisation of the Chambers and everyone goes in a similar direction as is followed by the proposal of the law before us today, but it is fashion ever again. Maybe before I finish, there's a sentence about the same law, but with a different content proposed by my colleagues from SLS. At the referendum, there are always some who are dissatisfied. In the end, however, people feel that politics is always at fault, regardless of how it is decided. Therefore, it is up to us to decide and decide. Today, therefore, it is our task to support the proposal of colleagues from Nova Slovenije, which is in the direction of supporting the Slovenian farmer. For all the substantive reasons and consistent action of the SDS party in accordance with our programme, we will unanimously support the proposal that the law that transforms membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber from compulsory to voluntary is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u118	All in attendance, all in good cheer! As early as June 2011, on the proposal of the same proposer, New Slovenia said, at the time, as extraparliamentary parties, we discussed the identical proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, but we support a broad debate within the Chamber itself on how to work in the future and how to develop. We also agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which opposes this bill. In the history of the creation of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber in Slovenia, we meet in part with the politicization of the organization's operation. Its origin has already been extremely politically discolored. At the time, one political option defended the establishment of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, the other we had a lot of concerns and nevertheless there was a way to establish it, which somehow deviates from the other chambers, because it is not only that the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture represents all those who own agricultural land and forests and who are engaged in agriculture, but exercise, be careful, also the institution's rights in agricultural and agricultural institutions. This is a special status, a special difference or a significant difference in comparison with other chambers, because we passed on the actual exercise of rights in agri-agri-agricultural establishments by law at that time. The fact is that there is an extremely strong agricultural-forestry profession in agri-agricultural institutions, which is very good, and that, last but not least, it is the subject of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, on the one hand, when the objective of obtaining a Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture has been met, we have also led to the fact that the Chamber is not in fact entirely independent because it is largely financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to compulsory or voluntary membership itself, we have also spoken a lot in the National Assembly, and we have also adopted some laws that have just raised the threshold for entry into the mandatory membership of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, thus somehow excluding those landowners who are really primarily passionate about this activity and trying to make a decision on what the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber should do, particularly those who are also engaged in agriculture. This is also the reason why we will not support this proposal of the Social Democrats Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Citizens, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In the Civil Gazette, as the main added value of the proposed novel submitted by the New Slovenia Group, we assess the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber. Compulsory membership is contrary to the fundamental value of liberality, which advocates social and economic freedom and tolerance and is fundamental to the functioning of the Civil Code. That is why we advocate freedom of membership in all chambers, i.e. also in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. The Chamber is, by definition, an advocate of the partial interests of a limited number of members who are united in the Chamber and, as such, advocates the interests of its membership and not of general public interest. In the case of compulsory membership, questions are raised: whether it is possible to defend the interests of all members at the same time, or whether the Chamber does not defend the interests of the strongest members in the case of compulsory membership, or whether it does so on behalf of weaker members who may not have the same interests. It is necessary to ask, for example, whether the interest of a large and small farmer is the same or whether the interest of high-mountain farms is the same as that of farms in Pomurje. The Chamber has a legitimate place in the state system, but the current form gives it the status of a monopolist which leads to inefficiency and causes losses for the members of the Chamber, for the state and not least the Chamber itself. Optional membership and the establishment of additional competition chambers to compete on the market in providing quality, wide-ranging services for their members would lead to greater efficiency, efficiency and innovation. Regardless of how many representative chambers would work on the market, membership in them must always be a voluntary decision of an individual and not a national coercion to membership. The Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture shall be a legal person of public law financed by the budget, its own market activities and its contribution. The funds collected by voluntary membership represent only 8% of the funds. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that, within the framework of the Chamber, they are able to create such an amount of resources on the market or to rationalise their business for this amount of funds. Already within the chamber, trees, insemination centers, laboratories are working successfully. It follows from the 2013 financial plan and programme of the Chamber that the number of employees in the Chamber financed by the budget is 434 and that 267 employees are financed from the market work. The assembly contribution shall amount to EUR 2 million, which shall be used mainly for the operation of the Office, one part for the organs, i.e. for the meetings, the kilometres and the other. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that with the loss of this income, Slovenian agriculture will not be at a disadvantage and we will burden farmers. In this respect, we stress that the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber in this form, as the organisation of the Chamber has been operating only since 2000. In the territory of Slovenia, the population or Slovenians are engaged in agriculture in this part of the world for over a thousand years. Therefore, we cannot agree to the thesis of those who claim that the abolition of compulsory membership will be crucial for Slovenian agriculture. In the Civil Gazette, we oppose compulsory membership of the Chamber, but membership has the right to democratic decision on its own Chamber. The referendum, which was held in the case of the Chamber of Commerce, was a lactic paper or test of what kind the members wanted and a compromise in seeking a overlapping consensus on how the Chamber should be organised in the future. Therefore, we do not object to the addition of this law, which, using the Institute of Referendum as the highest democratic process, would lead to a democratic decision acceptable to the majority of the members of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, but the whole process should be carried out quickly and effectively without unnecessary political overplay and measurement of power. At this stage in the Civil Gazette, we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! After about two years in the National Assembly, we re-examine the issue of compulsory or voluntary membership in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, which is this time to truth in a loving but more current way than it was then. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Agricultural and Economy Chamber of Slovenia is a copy of a bill two years ago submitted by a group of 5,000 and several more voters, with only some cosmetic corrections. The key and only objective of the proposed law is to abolish compulsory membership in the Chamber, which is to improve the functioning of the bodies and services of the Chamber and thereby to identify Slovenian agriculture at home and abroad. How and on what basis this is supposed to happen is not clear from the proposal. When we are talking about the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia, we are clearly talking about a representative body capable of representing different interests in agricultural and forestry activities. The Chamber shall be an extremely important interlocutor to the State or the competent ministry in the preparation of expert opinions, as well as in the procedures for the regulatory regulation of agricultural and forestry activities. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are therefore aware of the importance and mission of the Chamber for the Slovenian farmer, but we are also aware that certain organizational and substantive changes in the assembly system are necessary and necessary. However, in our view, the unilateral political abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber is not the right way to deal with these problems, even though it is at first. The immediate abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber would result in the loss of representation of the Chamber in relation to the State or the withdrawal of the public powers acquired by the Chamber from the State, as well as the loss of assets held by the Chamber of Management. But more about the consequences a little later. First, I should return about a year and a half ago when we prepared the so-called Treaty for Slovenia 2011-2015 with the then future coalition partners, which, inter alia, stated that the coalition partners will adopt solutions with which membership in the Chambers will be voluntary, except in cases where membership in the referendum at the level of integration is decided on a mandatory membership, and in the case of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the mandatory integration in the Chamber will be further limited to recipients of subsidies and owners of larger forests. We have therefore committed, for the first time, to respect the interests of membership in the reorganisation of the assembly system, which must express its will clearly in the referendum, and for the second time to restrict mandatory membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture to recipients of subsidies who also benefit to the greatest extent from the services of the Chamber. Unfortunately, this agreement in the previous coalition has not yet been realized because of the time it has run out, and also because of the different views on some solutions that we have not yet been able to reconcile in order to prepare the law for the government and parliamentary procedure. We all remember the saga of voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and bile discussions when the amendment of the craft law is adopted. At that time, however, it followed some logical steps that would be wise to act also in the event of the reorganization of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. The management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry first decided to hold a referendum, the result of which was clear: abolition of compulsory membership. On this basis, the competent ministry prepared a amendment to the Commercial Law, which established a comprehensive reorganisation of the Chamber based on voluntary membership, which was adopted by the National Assembly in March of this year. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that a referendum among the members of the Chamber would be necessary before any reorganisation of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy. It is only in this way that you can clearly identify whether they want a chamber based on a voluntary or compulsory form of organisation. However, prior to the referendum, compulsory membership in the Chamber should be limited to those entities which are actually linked to agriculture, so at least close to the number of recipients of agricultural subsidies. Such a procedure would be most honest for both the members of the Chamber and for the Chamber itself. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party submitted their amendment to the legislative procedure days ago to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, which regulates precisely this by tying the condition for compulsory membership to the register of agricultural holdings. This would reduce the number of members by about 30,000 to approximately 80 000, a significant approximation of last year's coalition agreement. With the proposed provision on the call for a referendum between them, we follow the principle that the only membership is the one that has the right to decide how an organised chamber wishes. Membership, not politics, the latter must only follow the interests of membership. I would also like to stress our intention to regulate the problem of determining KD. With an appropriate amendment or amendment, we re-examine KD as a censor for membership in the Chamber and thus reduce the number of mandatory members to those who certainly have an interest that an institution such as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber represents their interests. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of how important the Farmers' Chamber is to offer its services, with its professional services and also as an important interlocutor in the preparation of legislation in the field of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. It is true, as proposed, that only around 8% of the total revenue used primarily for the operation of the assembly system will be obtained from the general budget, while 80% of the revenue from the payment of users for public services is earned from the public budget. However, account must also be taken of the fact that unilateral non-systemic abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber could result in the loss of the possibility of public services or the loss of public authority, so that it would no longer be possible to speak of the Chamber as a representative and independent interlocutor of the State. As a result, the Chamber would lose its public legal status, which, as such, represents the interests of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which would also result in the loss of state budget resources for the execution of the public service – i.e. the immediate abolition of the Chamber. By the way, similar shortcomings have been pointed out in the past by both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service. With the immediate abolition of the chamber, the farmer would lose his last interlocutor, who speaks to farmers the understandable language and understands its problems. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian People's Party's Group of the proposed law, which unilaterally and without the express will of membership abolishes compulsory membership in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, we will not support and we do not believe that it is not suitable for further consideration. This does not mean that we are closing our eyes to reality and we do not want the changes that are clearly necessary in the assembly system in the areas of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Many of them are also offered in our amendment to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Any further changes, in particular the possible abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber, must be adopted on the basis of a clearly expressed will of membership in a systematic and legally feasible manner. Unfortunately, these criteria are not met by the proposed law. Therefore, as we say, in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we do not consider the proposed amendment to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber to be suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the floor, Mr Franz Bogovic is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. In Slovenia, everything is too often mixed into all the seasons of our society. Organised interest groups are one of these areas where in the past we have followed all too often the concept from above down rather than the other. It's the right way from the bottom. The State should listen to citizens' initiatives, which can be organised as appropriate for this purpose, but not that it provides only for organisation and therefore indirectly for representatives themselves. Of course, it is easier for a country to choose its own interlocutors, but it is not necessarily in the interests of its citizens. Our party's position on membership in various chambers is always the same, clear and firm. We advocate the freedom of an individual to decide for himself what kind of organisation he will exercise his interests in, and therefore I support the amendment of the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber. The best referendum is actually the possibility for members to decide freely whether or not to vote or not to cross the threshold of the Chamber. I have no doubt, too, that a chamber based on voluntary membership will better listen to its members, provide them with appropriate services and represent their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u126	Have a nice hello again! The position of the Slovenian People's Party was very clearly presented by Mr Presečnik in the position of the Group of Members. I would also like to add my personal position to this. As far as the organisation of assembly systems across Europe is concerned, it is very different and the agricultural sector is one of those areas not only in the assembly system, but also within the European family of countries, it is very unique and in many ways very specific in this area. For we have the last common agricultural policy under the common European policy. As far as assembly organisation is concerned, Prof. Dr. Zagogozhen, who was the biggest advocate and also, in some ways, the one who has much credit for the fact that this assembly system was enacted in Slovenia, has been looking for good cases nearby, where things have been working well for decades. Certainly, Slovenian assembly arrangements were best followed by the neighbouring Koroška, where today they also have the director of the agri-housekeeping chamber, which represents the whole country, Slovenca. As a minister, I myself had the opportunity to be their guest, and I have also visited them several times in the past and have seen how this assembly system works. This is not a country in which today we are dealing with major crises, it is not a country in which for decades a totalitarian system would rule, but I think that, according to a variety of patterns and history, a country with which we have much in common could be able to learn a lot of good things from them, as well as transfer them to our practice. Such an experiment was also a choral system. I myself had the opportunity as a member of the Committee on the Economy in the previous composition of the National Assembly to visit a similar committee in Vienna, the Committee on the Economy, and one of my questions was why in Austria there are no problems with street strikes, but in some ways things are going smoothly and obviously also. The key response was that the country fully respects the agreement it has reached with its social partners and that the country has very strong interlocutors in both trade unions, in the chambers of employers, employees and also in the chambers of residence. With these interlocutors, matters will be settled to the end, and when these things are settled, such things will then be carried out in practice. As far as Slovenia is concerned, we know that in recent years we have taken steps on the assembly arrangements, that a number of these chambers, either on the basis of a policy decision or on the basis of a membership decision, have opted for voluntary membership. Today, here in this debate has already been shown, or those concerns that speak in favour of the need to think seriously about what these key consequences will also be before politics reaches this area. I firmly believe that today, in a number of measures prepared or already presented by this coalition, there is a very great need for people in the Slovenian countryside to organise themselves well in the Slovenian rural environment so that they will not receive any measures that will have major consequences. For example, one is the property tax and the cadastral income and similar arrangements. If anyone has a good, organised interlocutor, he will certainly have agriculture in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber today. At the time of the establishment of the Chamber, as has already been said today, the State decided that, in addition to the public powers, it would also give the management of certain assets for this activity into the hands of the agri-agricultural chambers. In this part, if compulsory membership were to be abolished and a very large rash continued in this part of membership, this representativeness could simply be abolished. As has already been said today, the final interlocutors of farmers who speak them in an understandable language would somehow lose these powers. What is the key to this detail? I agree with those who say that the advisory service will still remain and that these people will still be on the ground. The point is, who will be in charge of this advisory service, whether the minister and government officials, or, as it is now arranged, the elected farmers, their founders, their members, who are then a good interlocutor of the state. I agree that there would also be a need for a change in the advisory service, as we did last year, when I had this opportunity, that there was a lot to be done in the ministry, but I certainly think that a lot of the voice of the chamber would be silenced if, at some critical moments, there was a conflict of interest or with the measures that the government is preparing. Today the government does not have this option, because the managers and those who run the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber are, as I have said, elected representatives of farmers in the assembly elections. I have already said myself that I agree that changes are urgently needed. Many things have also changed in the Slovenian agricultural field in recent years. The first change was already achieved when the number of members from 170,000 to 113 thousand was reduced by raising the entry threshold of KD. Also in preparation for the execution of the entry in the coalition contract and also on the basis of an analysis of the situation, a proposal was prepared at the Ministry last year, which also provided us with a good basis for the proposal tabled by the Slovenian People's Party and which is going in this direction, first of all, to reduce this number of membership substantially. Mr Presečnik has already made it clear that in addition to KD, the first entry condition should also be the registered agricultural holding. It is said that those who register for this activity are then those mandatory members. If there is a debate on this law that we have tabled, by then the process of new models for determining cadastral income will be completed and we really want to get to know these figures in detail and also the additional increase in the KD threshold to reduce the number of those who are expected to be mandatory members in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Moreover, in the bill, it is already possible that the structures that are being elected should be reduced and that this organisation should be made more rigid and that it should actually be closer to people. The second major amendment or novelty of this law, which has been added to it, is that these active farmers should decide on membership themselves below, so it is also in the law that, within a certain period of time after the entry into force of this law, this referendum should also be carried out and that, either at the time of the election to the chamber or in a short time, farmers will clearly define that we will not ever again in politics get this obvious, that we have some system that has gone down and that has also begun to operate in such a way. I think we need to be very careful about one more thing. We are practically ahead of the start of a new financial perspective, and key discussions are now taking place around the level of funds themselves. The next key issue is to define in the Slovenian agricultural area the purposes for which these funds will be spent and to prepare, on the one hand, advisers as well as farmers, including recipients of these services, in addition to other people in the countryside, as much as possible and together with them to draw on these funds. Believe that such an intervention and this restless situation at this time would probably also pose a major threat to drawing on these agricultural policy measures in the next financial perspective. Looking back, farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture and also those responsible for this can play a key role here in the Agricultural and Economics Chamber with advisory services, with the authorities elected, and can boast that this is the area that is practically best drawn in this financial perspective. I must say that searching and dealing with these organisational solutions can be very painful and we will deal with this year, two, three, and a crucial period for the break-in of Slovenian agriculture will pass. Even as a former agricultural minister, I have always said out loud that the greatest shortcomings and what Slovenian farmers beat, their lack of interrelationship, their integration. A large part of the weight in this area is the agricultural advisory service. I have talked to them myself – I believe that this is also continued by the successor, Minister Židan – just how it is necessary in the coming years to bring together those working in agriculture, and through this model also to improve the competitive opportunity for Slovenian agriculture. Today we have had such a good example of how organic farmers, together with Zito, are represented by organic cereals and organic fruit growers, linked to the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture. I believe that this work, which needs to be continued, is a work that must be done well with farmers by a related agricultural advisory service within the framework of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. I must say that I have these concerns, which I have also made loudly, in this proposal for a law tabled by New Slovenia, so today this proposal will not be supported by me. The proposal, which has already been presented by Mr President, has already been tabled by our parliamentary group in the National Assembly, so we also do not leave that manoeuvre to anyone to say that we are only defending the existing situation, but we wanted to show with that proposal how we see the development of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and how we feel it is best to organise Slovenian agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Franz Jurša, followed by Mrs Ludmila Novak and then by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! For the introduction, I would say that I fully agree with those who said that a lot has changed in the area of agriculture in the last period. However, I also very much agree that the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy should be more delicately organised in the future. I'll say a few words about the proposal. If memory doesn't fool me, I think it doesn't fool me that in the past the applicant has made a similar proposal or, rather, has drawn from the drawer a proposal that he presented to the National Assembly in the previous term, and in this proposal there are no significant differences. I personally assess and believe that the solutions proposed are insufficient, that the solutions proposed are also incomplete. If we had accepted the proposed amendment, we would have also destroyed the current organisation of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, and, according to my opinion, the Chamber would have lost its representativeness and thus the possibility of representing different interests in agriculture and forestry. I must also say that I am saying this as a member of this Chamber, who also regularly pays the membership fee in this Chamber. I estimate that a broader public debate was necessary before any decision on compulsory membership or on optional membership in the Chamber, and I have personally supported this proposal in order to carry out a broader public debate on this. Of course, then it is also possible for members to decide in some form of decision-making whether to be a referendum, to decide whether they want a meeting with a member, such as it was now – so to speak, compulsory – or whether they actually want an optional membership or voluntary membership, as is the case with most other Slovenian assemblies. However, interference with the law in force requires serious consideration so that changes do no more harm than benefits. Nevertheless, I believe that some changes to the assembly system will be necessary, even though the number of farmers actively engaged in agriculture is declining or decreasing, which is consequently also reflected in the number of mandatory members. For this reason, I believe that some of the issues, such as the level of the threshold, need to be considered. That is why, at the outset, I spoke about the need for this chamber to be more orderly, and the threshold was also discussed by the predecessor, Franz Bogovich, and therefore he would not have put these matters specifically on the table. Mainly: the elections to the chamber must be different. Elections such as those in the Chamber at this time or so far show that there is not enough interest in membership within the Chamber, since the elections are held with 10% participation in the elections. This is, of course, a disaster or an indication that members of the Chamber are going to these elections in a smaller number than our citizens are going to minor referendums. which we carried out in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u130	In New Slovenia, we want the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to be even better than it is now. Therefore, we do not propose any withdrawal, but merely the introduction of voluntary membership; and what you, Mr Jurša, have previously found that in the elections to the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber there is very little participation and that they do not have the right representative status – or as you would have said – so that they do not reflect the will of all members. Mr Ficko had previously discussed why this is an initiative for Members and Members and not an initiative for those concerned. Members are elected from citizens, including Slovenian farmers and landowners, or all those who pay compulsory membership. At their initiative, New Slovenia has already decided for the second time to amend this law. In 2011, as already mentioned, we put almost identical law into the procedure. At that time, I listened to the debates of the parliamentary groups, and almost everyone said that something really needed to be changed, but we still have to think about it, now is not the time, we will do it later. New Slovenia went into action and we wanted to do this now. We know that we have recently adopted the Law on Voluntary Membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we have already obtained voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce. Why should farmers or the population who have to pay this membership be different from members of other chambers or why would they have a different status than in other chambers? That is why, for the first time, at the initiative of five thousand voters, when we have collected signatures, and now, at the initiative of many members, we have re- tabled this law. I am sure that if we have to fight for something, so if we have to fight for the members, we will do more for them and the members will benefit more from it. We also propose that only those who do not wish to be members should make an exit statement. So it's not automatic for everyone to become non-members and then join. but whoever thinks they don't want to be a renegade, outgoing statement. So this membership would be very gradual, but if the members found that it benefits them, that it makes sense, to be in the Chamber, I am sure they would stay in it. That's our main purpose. I am convinced that the Chamber would also be more intense in its efforts to ensure that the cadastral income would not be so high as we see that the proposals or we are trying to reduce it or stop it for the time being. And also in the field of legislation; if the state gives – I think – over 13 million – for the functioning of the Chamber, then I think that the Chamber is also a nicer interlocutor to the State than if it knew that it had to compete for its members in order to support it. So, our exclusive purpose is to introduce voluntary membership for better functioning and to improve the election system in the chamber, because we know that this system is now not working and does not reflect the will of the members. If a referendum were to take place, I am sure that the result would be clear that most would opt for voluntary membership. Mr President said that it is necessary to listen to membership, I am sure that they have heard membership, but perhaps they have listened more to leadership, because it is more comfortable when people pay membership fees because they have to, but if you have to make a great deal of effort for these members, then much more needs to be done. Since I am sure that the law is suitable for consideration, of course we ask for your support, although some of you have said that you will not support it. But I also know that in New Slovenia we are open to further proposals, amendments and that together we could improve this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. For the debate I invite Mr Mirko Brulco, Mr Zvonko Lah is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u132	Your Honor! I'm sorry that SDS is always burdened with the previous system, but I don't know what it has to do with it now. They're talking about the totalitarian system, they all had to be members of the chamber. It doesn't contribute to the case. [[...]] Then I should say today that the SDS is against the chamber because the wife Dimitri Rupla has the status of a farmer and does not want to pay the membership fee So the content is not discussed. [[...]] I'm protesting like that, and I'm not going to fall for this nonsense. Do we have a clear picture of the role of the chamber? We do, and we know it's necessary. We know it needs to be updated. That's what needs to be done. What are the relations between the chamber or the chambers? As it has been said, we really treat each one of them in a row, if we put them on their knees in packages and it would be solved. What is the relation of the Chamber-Ministerial, Chamber-Government, Chamber-Legislators? How are the dialogues going? What is the interest of every authority? That these associations, if I say so, are as bad as possible? I'll go to the local government. We have a community, we have a community association, then Jankovic set up a community association. Three are talking to the minister with the local government instead of coming as one, strong, professional interlocutors. It's the same with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. There's a whole bunch of experts in it. The government needs to talk to them like that. I think that if these chambers are well organised, it is a great benefit – smart authorities and users. Now: a small farmer, a great farmer, who will be a member, who will not be a member. I did the same thing at the Chamber of Commerce. Even a small craftsman, including a small farmer, is cared for by the chamber. When it comes to legislation, he gets those cakes if he's a good, big, good, strong farmer and also that poor guy who has three pigs, a little field, and a tractor. But if he is a member, let us not burden him with membership. He'll share all the information, the possibility of being helped and so on. Look, for the abuses in the chamber, the chambers, as we had the opportunity to see, it's not the legislation. It's the greed of individuals, the human factor. They are not covered by those who pay the membership; or they are, because they have not changed them before and have said thank you very much, we want honest, good people in our leaderships. Apologize on election costs, participation and the like. It's true, it's divisive. I ask you how much we love in the State Council – directly and so on, is it one crazy lobbying, persuasion and masquerade? Agriculture is an extremely important sector for Slovenia and is so specific that Europe will push us to the ground. Our farmer cannot compete with a farmer in Germany, where the surfaces are such as they are, but we have fragmentation and so on. But we help ourselves so indirectly, directly, that it goes slowly all "out of the ground". I'll tell you about Mercator's sale, don't paint me, we'll have Slovenian products on the shelves in 10 years. I'm sorry those multinationals are doing what they're doing. Europe is a stepmother to us and wants to squeeze us, to collect energy, infrastructure, to feed us with their artificial colors, and I don't know what products and so on. That's my opinion. That's what I get for every day. Look what happened to the MIP – stolen! Catastrophe! A brand that flourished in Europe. What's going on with Fructal, in the middle of the peaches, in the middle of the Vipava Valley? Now it's your turn, I have to tell you, the Milinotest who drives bread all the way to Padua, but the grain that goes on sale wants it nicely, as we say at home, taken over. In this package, Mlinotest and cereals will go, if the Vipavska Valley is partly the same – I do not know who the farmers will sell these cereals to, although we know exactly that companies whose shares or shares are the subject of sale must not do business during this period with which their real estate will be deducted, to reduce or increase the basic capital of companies, to conclude businesses with which they would commit in the long term to undertakings for obligations and actions that would in any way restrict the normal management of the company, to conclude transactions that would generate new assets and so on, not to mention. But that doesn't apply in our country. That doesn't apply! Banks and everyone else are holding a hat like a hoodie, what's going to happen to them in this hat, and the activity is going to go to shit; and that's what I'm worried about. You know, I don't know how it's gonna be with Mercator in ten years, what's milk going to be like, and the Milky Way, and so on – not to mention, just from my small territory of Slovenia, what's going on in agriculture. That is why we need, listen, a strong agricultural chamber that will also deal with such problems that we will be able to survive and that we will really feed on what grows in our home and that on this basis the farmer will also live better than alive today, although I must tell you that we have many extremely good, rich farmers who work hard in Goriška; 24 hours work, but they are rich and have to pay the tax and have to pay the cadastral income and so on. Why not? Why not? If someone buys a tractor for 70,000 euros with stereo devices and so on, but has a field, so that this tractor can barely turn, then give the country something. That's my opinion. I think we'll probably have a hard time defending it, but I'm sure we need a strong, professional agricultural chamber. I wasn't talking about institutions, how much knowledge is in these institutions. In Goriška we have one that covers even the west of Primorsko, and I talk to these experts, asking farmers what amazing service it is, from an olive fly, when it will attack, to what I don't know, pernospora and so on. We have to save a hundred words! The farm hall should also help the vineyards. See, generic medications can be taken by Mirko Brulc – I will be cured and everything will be fine; sprinkled with generic starches is not possible. It is not possible to import cheaper starches across the border, in Italy, 50 percent more expensive than we do — and so on. So, stupidity is huge, it's a problem, and we need to solve them, and that's why we need a strong farming chamber. But I didn't go into the woods or anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, don't mind if I go a little bit to the basics of the assembly. Many of you have stressed that it is good that we have a well-organised Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, but let us ask ourselves what are the results of this organisation. Self-sustainment is falling, farmers are increasingly dissatisfied. It was just these days that the anniversary of the big strike of farmers passed, that things did not improve significantly, and that perhaps they were even worse in this sector. Consider the case of cadastral income. If this Chamber, which is being addressed today, is effective, it should launch a shout and scream at the expected rise in the cadastral income, take the farmer's side and strongly press the minister for something to happen. And what did the chamber do? She was quiet! There was an establishment where practically the Minister of Agriculture comforted farmers at the expected rise in cadastral income. Of course, here the chamber most likely relies on an additional source, which would be obtained by additional membership, when the cadastral income would increase, but no one can convince me that this chamber works in favour of the farmer if it behaves in this way. Why are we uniting, why are we connecting? It is likely that we are stronger and that we are achieving common goals. Answer these questions when you ask yourself, ‘ Is this room all right? ’ And remember, this chamber was built from the top down. A guide was provided, and then a membership was granted to this congregation. In a normal democratic world, people unite from below. They have some common goals and these common goals link them together to set up an organisation. This is not the case in Slovenia. It is a pity that Brulce has already gone out, because he is one of those who says that problems exist — even alerts them to problems — but they would not do anything to solve them. There are problems in agriculture, but this room is fine, everything is great, keep it strong and so on. If everything was as great as some of you say, then the situation in agriculture would be very different; but so that we are nothing to blame, it is Europe's fault. To solve our problems, however, what problems we have solved — no! The easiest thing to do is to apologize to others and to Europe. One more thing that I find incredible in these times of crisis. I don't know if you know the organization of this chamber. The Council of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber may also decide to amend the membership fee, which may range from a statutory 20% upward or downwards. What do you think this chamber did in a time of crisis? It would normally be expected that she would lower her membership — but no! This chamber has pushed membership to the highest possible level; and at a time of crisis! Then they say if we make it mandatory if we abolish the mandatory membership, it's the end of the chamber. Look, our proposal for a law does not terminate any services, no services, no activity that this Chamber is taking today. We're not shutting anything down, we're giving up all public powers like they are today. For these things, which the Chamber manages on behalf of the State, of course it is also well paid. Remember that practically farmers must also pay for each service. With the 26 million budget that this Chamber has, it collects €2 million from membership. If you convert this into a percentage, this represents 7.5% of the budget of the Chamber. Now I ask you which successful companies are able to survive if you reduce their budget or their revenues by 7.5%. I think it's all of it. Now, explain to me why this would be so disastrously wrong if the chamber could reduce its revenue by 7.5%. We're talking 7.5%. And on the condition that everyone gets out of the room! That I won't be too long, because then I'll still be able to get involved: just one more thing about the referendum, because I think it's good that you're all listening, and you're all aware of it. We have had a unique experience or we have seen things happen at the Chamber of Commerce. They had a referendum, this referendum was attended only by those who were dissatisfied with the work of the Chamber, and the result was clear: they were in favour of abolishing the mandatory membership. If you are to hold a referendum in the Chamber today, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, I guarantee you today that this referendum will be negative and that there will be a large majority for membership to be voluntary. Because the satisfied and silent majority will remain at home, those who are dissatisfied with the work of the Chamber will come to express their dissatisfaction at this referendum and identify themselves against it. What do we suggest now? I think we are proposing the most kind way of transforming the Chamber from mandatory to voluntary membership. By adopting this law, we do not stipulate that at the moment all members will leave this Chamber. By adopting our law, all today’s members will continue to be members of the Chamber and will have the opportunity to leave this Chamber. What's the difference? The difference is that in such a system that we propose, you simply give the opportunity to those who are dissatisfied with getting out easily, are no longer members of the Chamber, and these negative energies or discontents do not transfer to all those parts of the Chamber that may work well, and to all those members who are satisfied with this membership. Those who are satisfied with the work of the Chamber will simply continue to be a member, will not apply for an exit and the matter will be resolved. I ask you kindly to try to talk soberly about these things and not to go into a cemented state of mind as to how one thing must be. However, in order for this debate to bear fruit today, it is the first debate. Many of my colleagues have said that there will be more to the law. I'm asking you what you'll lose if you let this marriage go forward today. Nothing! But if you're against him, you're going to get this debate killed. Given the situation in agriculture, which is, I think it is very important that we discuss these things and discuss them. Make it enough for now, and I'll call back later.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor. Get the mags ready for him. Ivan Vogrin and Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I support this proposal of the law myself. We probably don't know what our agriculture is like right now and what our expectations are. Let me just root out the situation: that the average size of the Slovenian farm is little more than six hectares of agricultural land and that such a farm cannot survive; that the average age of the Slovenian farm is 60 years, is said to be pensioners; that in some areas we also have 30.35% self-sustainment. We are the only ones who are self-sufficient in the area of milk and beef production, but farmers say that about a month ago the price of buying livestock fell by more than 10% and that the figures show that it is no longer paid in this area. The purchase of beef is practically stopping. In other areas, such as greenery, we should do little or nothing to produce fruit, where we have enormous opportunities and advantages over some other countries. We're having trouble growing agricultural land. After World War II, Slovenia grew to a forest of about 35% and is now strong over 50%. Slovenia has a good eight hundred square metres of agricultural land per capita; the average in Europe is once again higher. And what do these organizations that are supposed to do for farmers who are supposed to fight for agriculture? They're fighting a little. I submit that the organisation of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber as well as agricultural cooperatives has overrun time for about 20 years. That they are self-sufficient, that it is important for them to run well what is still somehow competitive to foreign farms or agriculture in the European Union. It's milk and beef. But so far. What happens after the milk quotas are abolished? The Ljubljana dairy plants have been sold. Will the owner buy milk from our farmers in the future? Will it bring milk from Italy, where they are rapidly preparing for the abolition of milk quotas? Or from Germany, where they increase more than 10% of milk production each year? Where are we going with the milk? The only thing that's still competitive is bad for these farmers in the future. I come from a municipality where intensive agriculture is among the best in Slovenia, where it was produced on a small surface a third of all milk in Dolenjska, where the agricultural land is probably among the most expensive in Slovenia, but farmers began to wonder how to proceed because it is viewed by neighbours in Austria, Italy, Germany, in which agriculture goes there, and they do not have a good time. In particular, small farms from the Agricultural-land chamber have few wrinkles. Agricultural advisors, who are mainly for larger farmers, are for those who live with agriculture, and these are in the minority. Agriculture lived with us 30 years ago when every other household in the village sold milk; 20, 30, 40, 50 liters, now there are only two instead of 30 farmers. Can these two farmers process all agricultural land in restricted areas with regard to slopes, with regard to terraces where the fields are a few meters wide, when the tractor can no longer turn in this field? That's what little farmers, half-farms used to do. Now these little farmers have to spend quite a bit of their wages or pensions to be able to grow at all. You've probably heard two retirees talking to each other, and one says it's a shame because he doesn't have a little more pension, he could have two cows, and now he only has one. That's the truth. Where will those taxes now foretold lead?Oh, my God! Yesterday, one of my friends, a farm counselor, told me that if there were taxes like ours in neighbouring Austria, the government would fall overnight. But everything's quiet with us. The people we are talking about today are also the representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. They're already saying something, but they have to! Did they just stand up for these farmers? I don't think so. They take care of themselves, their chairs. Both the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and the Association. What are cooperatives? Who owns the cooperatives? What do cooperatives do? Why is it not possible to buy crops from our farmers in cooperative stores? Can you buy a bag of corn or beans produced here? No! No! It comes from China, and you can buy it. What qualities abroad, just across the border, say farmers that they don't have to walk around with a map under the armpit from door to door, make, pay for some business plans, analyses, studies with which they can get those few euro subsidies. [[...]] Those who arrange it themselves come to them because they have such representatives that the farmer can be at home and work. They come home and take care of everything. Austrian farmers do not know what European funds are, subsidies, because they are all organised by others. They take care of their land, for their farming, and they are regulated by those who are paid for it. What about us? When it was a drought, the congregation organizes a commission, evaluates, and then when it comes to fulfilling that role, agricultural advisers say that they are too paid to do so, let the congregation take care of it. Is this really a matter of the congregation? What are they paid for? Moreover, in the budget of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber membership does not represent much, good 10%. Everything else is from elsewhere, much also from the state budget. Whether we or the government require a lot of those who pay them, we can ask ourselves that question. I also asked the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment a question: What will be the policy in the future against the cultivation of agricultural land? There's been a lot of talk, and we've also had a lot of trouble with the law on prevention. Colleagues and colleagues, that's it! Buildings are too empty to be rebuilt. It's just sand in your eyes. Indeed, it was built ten years ago, when the best times were in the best agricultural lands of various shops, shopping centres, but it was all built after the adopted spatial acts, which were agreed upon by those who were supposed to protect agricultural land. I don't think any of the big objects have been built on black. But no one wants to hear what the real causes are for the cultivation of agricultural land and what are the measures against agriculture. We don't want to hear that. With such a policy as is now predicted, with taxation, with a rise in cadastral income and property taxes, believe me, the recovery will be even more accelerated than it has been before. Once we ask ourselves where to get food – the price of food is expected to rise by 40% over the next ten years – food will become a key item in the family budget. It's very low now. It is very difficult to restore that land to fertile agricultural land. The costs are enormous, and believe me, the country won't have them either. Therefore, the attempt to become a member of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is a voluntary one, I think, an attempt in the right direction. Let them organize themselves in such a way that people need them, farmers need them, and if they need them, they will join because they will have certain benefits. However, if they do not have to fight for their members and in most cases they simply write reports to justify their salary every month and this is the greatest job for some agricultural advisers. What is the effect of their work? No one measures or measures at all. I think that this proposal is one of the attempts in the right direction, because we will have to steer the policy in the right direction, otherwise we will really lose food in the future. If we can't figure out the right formula ourselves, let's look across the border, where they're very successful in this area. Why don't we copy the system from where it works? We are an integral part of the common European agricultural policy. I will therefore support this law in order to move forward, and in the procedure itself, there is still much to be done, and I expect that those actors we are discussing will be actively involved in the amendment of this legislation, not only the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, but in general the agricultural policy in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Now the mag has been reported to the debate. Ivan Vogrin. You have the floor. Get ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm giving up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State and co-worker, I also welcome the President of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, who is accompanying us from the balcony! First of all, I would like to say that this proposal of our law is not a law against the chamber, even less against the direction of the chamber, but is a law for the benefit of Slovenian farmers. That's what this is about. Many of you have said this, and I very much respect the need to open a broad public debate on the organisation of farmers. We just started this or about an hour and a half ago. I would also like the president to have the floor, but that will only be in second reading on the committee, and I believe that you will not take those words away from him today – those who oppose this bill. What do we want? We want a strong Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia, a representative or more accurate representative of Slovenian farmers who will talk to the government and other institutions. What's a strong chamber? Does this mean that he will receive a lot of congregational contributions or is it that we only care about the budget of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, or is it that we are animated to activate Slovenian farmers, to raise their voices, to tell them their ideas, to participate in the agricultural policy of the Republic of Slovenia? Here, however, it must be stressed that we have a common European agricultural policy. This raises the question of what is the power of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, or Slovenian farmers, in the design of this great European common agricultural policy. Is it, then, that we are plagued by this choral contribution, which I believe might only be split up if we do and give the opportunity for Slovenian farmers to freely unite? Would that really mean such a severe blow to the Farmers' Chamber so that – God forbid – it would go to waste? Look, we're not shutting down the chamber. In some ways, the government was also deceiving her position. By the way, I don't know if anyone has this position, Madam Vice President, in writing? We can't find him anywhere, not in UDIS or anywhere. But the position presented here by the Secretary of State must have been accepted by the Government and this document should be in the National Assembly. Maybe we're awkward, we can't find him – just by the way. So, we're not shutting down the Farm-land chambers. However, there must be some logic if the National Assembly has changed the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and introduced voluntary membership, as well as voluntary membership for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, it is a logical logic for all the Chambers to be able to bring together and bring together the public concerned. People come to me — yes, older ones, formerly a colleague of Lach told me what the average age is. They are all pensioners, they come to my office with the numbers for the contribution and they are barely evoking how to pay for this contribution and what benefits they have from this chamber. There's no use! No one has spoken today, nor has the Government, about the calculation of the agricultural product. Yes, the calculation of the cost side should also take into account the chamber's contribution. How competitive Slovenian farmers are in this global space, so we all know. Look, there's no fear that the chamber will fail. Where someone saw that an institution with a budget of twenty-five million would fail. There's no fear. It is true, however, that there is a bit of frantical information, a very frantic information that, on the one hand, in 2012, the chamber collects two million and 60 thousand euros from a chamber contribution, and on the other hand, the office spends two million and a half euros on itself, that is official data, two million and a half. Someone said we needed a thin room, and I think that's what the room is listening to. According to the logic of some debaters, who say we should have a referendum and so on Look on in some way – yes. [[...]] But who will be pleased with this referendum again? You remember the discussions we had when we discussed the amendment to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Act. By this logic, we should also ask citizens when we adopt the Law on Traffic Offences or Penalties for Traffic Offences. Perhaps even a word about a congregational contribution and a few numbers. Farmers, members of the Slovenian Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of the Murska Sobota District Unit pay about EUR 350 000 of the assembly contribution, that is 17% of the total Slovenian assembly contribution. They told me they'd get these morons four thousand euros back. This is 1.14% of paid participation in Ljubljana, and I will highlight it in Ljubljana. Northeastern Slovenia or, more precisely, district chambers or farmers from the Maribor District Chambers, Ptuj, Murska Sobota pay 45 % of the chamber's contribution. Furthermore, the statute of the Chamber is such that it is not important for the President's name and surname that the President proposes six members to the Council of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, specifically the Murska Sobota. Also in the Gorski, mentioned earlier by his colleague Mirko. Thus, Ljubljana conducts six members of the world of the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute in Mursko Sobota, which is by law the highest body of the institution. Is this normal, colleagues and colleagues?Oh, my God! Is that normal?Oh, my God! I don't think so. Let me point out that the Members of New Slovenia will continue to do everything possible to ensure that the regional units will also be legal entities, for the reasons I mentioned earlier. I cannot allow as a Member coming from Pomurje to deal with a number of issues, including agricultural policy, from Ljubljana. I can't let that happen, and I'll never let it happen! Because otherwise, if this does not change, it is exclusively a centralisation and an ever-increasing influence of the lobby. That's what we need to talk about today, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, colleague Lah has said, I repeat, there has been and will be, in the near future, as the government predicts, the adoption of several tax laws, including cadastral income, which is not tax law, but is the basis. This will be confirmed today as predicted by the coalition. If that were the case in France, we'd have a colony of farmers with tractors and tanks with manure in front of the government today. We are not France, we are Slovenia, and I do not call for protests, demonstrations, I call for an agreement at the table. I don't know how sincere the will of the government to need a partner to need a representative of farmers, i.e. the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber was in its position. Perhaps — for cameras, for photos; but as far as it can be achieved, it is a question. Colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we continue this debate, which we have started today, in the second reading of this law on the Committee. I believe that we will all come up with optimal solutions together, these are urgent, times are different than they were 5, 10 years ago, and I believe that we all have so many ideas and so much listen to the countryside, farmers, that we know what the right solutions are for the Slovenian farmer – not for the assembly office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I now invite Mr Marijan Pojbić to the debate, followed by Mr Borut Ambrožič and Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has already said, which follows from the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party to advocate the abolition of compulsory membership in all chambers, without exception. That's what I agree with. When this law is adopted, it is a fact that this law does not in any way abolish the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. I think we should say that 10 more times that Slovenian farmers and all those in this chamber will hear that too. Only one part of the way this Chamber is financed is being changed. Today, it has been said many times that only around 8% of the budget of the Chamber comes from membership fees. I am sure that if there is a change in membership, this will not affect the normal and quality functioning of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. I come from the Slovenian Mountains and the wider Styria I know very well, as well as Koroška and when you come there among the small, medium-sized farmers that are practically far the most – what do these people say when you remember them at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber? Almost everyone, apart from the one operating in the bodies of this Chamber, asks, czech, Members and Members, to do something about it and cancel the additional costs that are going on. Please, Members and Members of the National Assembly, take your time and, kindly, listen to the people who are faced with some matter, what people think about it. Here I listen to such and different discussions of individuals living in city centres and not even in dreams have had the opportunity or have met with more small farmers and farmers to get accurate information about what these people really want. These people want exactly what I just said here. I am convinced that all Members and Members who are sitting in this national assembly should follow what the great majority of those concerned want. We should follow this, so people elected us, so we are Members of the Slovenian people. When we look at our small and medium-sized farmers, when they struggled day after day to survive, not to say that there was still a hailstorm, cold and so forth when they had no guarantee, or they could have at the end of the year a crop for which they had to invest so much and so much. The current government has added VAT hikes to them, is preparing to raise the payment of cadastral income, property tax, new penalties of the forest law and so on. And it's all about the periphery and it's very attached to small and medium-sized farmers. Tell me how these people, under all the responsibilities that this government is now trying to impose, will survive. Let someone in this national council explain this to me. Our farmers, I must say, are geniuses to survive in the current situation. I'm talking about middle and small farmers because they're the most. However, when all taxes are accepted, believe that there will be a situation that will be unsustainable for this population and for the periphery. I ask this authority and all those who can influence it, let us not do this by forcing a Slovenian man to resist us. Let's not do this. Let's go to the people, at least in those little situations and stories where we can help. When I listened to the debates of individual parliamentary groups today, I could already see that this law would probably not be supported and would not go to the second reading. I therefore ask on whose behalf we are Members and Members of this National Assembly. Are we, on behalf of the majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, or are we once again prisoners of each narrow group of privileged? Are we prisoners again? Can't we dig ourselves out of this trench? Or we cannot dig out of this and make an end of it once and find solutions that will benefit all and most of our citizens, not individuals. And it happens to us over and over and over again. When we compare Austrian farmers with ours, we have a major problem from history. Styria could be different if the farms were larger if they were not so many years ago to the agrarian reform where they tore up the entire agriculture. The situation today would be significantly different. Today we have the majority of farmers who have three, four, five, seven, eight, nine hectares. And you can't compare yourself to those hectares with Austrians and others. On the other hand, I am not talking about the taxes we have and are still following. Therefore, I would like to invite the coalition, especially the coalition, to gather and kindly please, do not follow the individuals with these burdens you have prepared. Do not follow individuals, for you will really push against the wall all those who have survived as long as they have survived, and it is a question of how long they will be. Don't do yourself any bear favors. Do not do yourself a bear service and do not allow yourself to raise the Slovenian nation on your feet, because when people will no longer have the opportunity to pay electricity and all that is not available now, then believe that they will no longer listen to us and watch us here in Parliament when we argue about some things that are very important for most, but then we make a decision that is in favour of a narrow group of individuals. I am convinced that this law is well-intentioned and that it would be right for this law to go to a second reading and personally ask individuals in individual parliamentary groups to support this solution proposed by New Slovenia, because this solution is in favour of most of our farmers. This, however, should guide each individual in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Katarina Hočevar, Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Mrs Marija Plevčak are prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Hello again! I will support the amendment of this law myself because it is going in the direction of unloading the Slovenian farmer. We are in favour of more freedom and less of the country in the Civil Gazette. Of course, we are not always successful at this because, as in life, compromises must be accepted in politics. That is why I hope that this novel will also be completed, improved and listened to the arguments of those who believe that there should be a mandatory membership in the Chamber today. The Council is changing, and as the Chamber of Commerce has to admit that in those times when the social relationship was extremely unfavorable to entrepreneurship, a great task has been accomplished, we must also acknowledge to the Chamber that everything since the creation was an important and key interlocutor to the government, the Ministry, in these crucial times when we were involved in international integration, at a time when we had to implement a whole bunch of European legislation in Slovenia's legal order. Mr Horvat said earlier that he did not want agricultural policy to be delegated from Ljubljana. I'm afraid she's from Brussels. And during that period, the chamber was an important interlocutor when we accredited the agricultural agency, when a whole bunch of directives had to be transposed into our legal order. We now have fewer farms due to the common agricultural policy. But it is true that these farms process a large number of hectares. And this points to the fact that our farms are specialising in order to be as competitive as possible. In these times and under such conditions, of course, it is appropriate to leave the Slovenian farmer to find such forms of organisation as the activities he carries out most appropriate. These days we are also talking about additional burdens on farmers. In doing so, I would point out that the property tax, which also touches the Slovenian farmer, is only in public treatment, and that, I hope, the property tax has changed, and that we will also find such a solution in the broader debate that we will not stick a nail in the coffin of self-care. I also think this in determining the cadastral income, because of course it has to be acknowledged that the system and methodology of the 1976 calculation cannot be sustained in 2013. I would therefore like to point out for myself when we are talking about agricultural holdings, about agricultural areas and facilities, that we must consider this and take decisions with special care. In this spirit, in order to take at least one step towards decommissioning the Slovenian farmer, I myself will support this novelty today, in the hope that, of course, we will find a compromise in the next debate that will be acceptable to all stakeholders in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Maria Plevčak, for her, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you very much. At the time of the establishment of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, I was involved in defending its creation and also in the establishment of compulsory membership. And since I know the problems and stings of agriculture, I come from this middle and am at least a permanent farmer after all, I have really expected many successes from the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and really successfully defending the interests of agriculture. I must say that I am quite disappointed today because the Chamber failed to protect farmers from the greed of traders and food processors. In my opinion, in administrative and bureaucratic work, it has also been highly bureaucratic and has in itself given reasons for being estranged from the authentic interests of farmers. I must say that agriculture is in an extremely poor, difficult situation, I mean the whole range of agriculture and agriculture as a social class. In the village everything has been going on since independence, and before that, extremely intense social processes, sociological processes, and it is not unusual that people may be the most disappointed in you and that we have a paradox that many small farmers have failed. Some, a small part of them, also at the expense of the fact that some relief, some assistance, social assistance, and non-agricultural development were possible during a period of time, saw a better life in another, but today it all fell away and are in a very difficult situation. They see a solution in dogmatic structures that show the image of socialist agriculture, which, of course, is historically the most responsible for the fact that our agriculture is not in the same condition as Austria, not to say Danish. In explaining the law, you can read the organization of agriculture, agriculture in Denmark. Then I am also disappointed that the Chamber did not copy or enforce the copying of Danish samples, as well as the Joint Liaison Office, could speak the same about both institutions. It is known that in the early 20th century, at the turn of the 19th, Denmark was a poorer country than then Slovenia and that Danish farmers, their representatives went to see solutions to Slovenia's Krekov cooperatives. And also Czech. The Czech Republic also developed exceptionally agriculturally. Look where the Danish farmers are today. There the development of the country was based on agriculture. With us, socialism has destroyed this, farmers have become a socially unnecessary segment of the population, the term "farmer" is still a profanity today, based on its launch during the era of socialism, as a representative of a less valuable race. But here was the outstanding role of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, and I must say that I am disappointed, and the whole department of the Agriculture Ministry, that they have moved there, although most of them were ministers, we know from which party, some of the most orthodox opponents of farmers in the previous regime or with the same views. And no wonder that's how things go. During one period of negotiations with the European Union, the representatives of the agricultural ministry were more papal than the pope, and the bureaucrats were successful, but the negotiating positions for Slovenia show today were not successful. See, in the previous system it was known that he had a regime, either through the Udba or otherwise, in every village of one smuggler, a small farmer usually who could afford everything. They never caught him. And they were working on the system of Deli and rule, of course he had special rights and we farm kids thought they were successful. We used to say to our parents, "Why don't we sell the wood to the Croats." And my father had bad experience, he was oppressed, and he knew what the trap was, that he couldn't afford it, because he was under control. But this was the Deli system and rule in the village, and unfortunately some of these samples also made their way into Slovenia. And the chamber, I have to say, and also, they've made a lot of fun of each other. The representation of the authentic interests of farmers does not run well enough. Look, I think we should jump the Farm-landing Chamber up to the ceiling when the agricultural advisory service is paying for all that farmers have to offer for some kind of invitation to tender. Unheard of. Let them do it, let the procedures, the forms simplify, they have to stand up for it, not have a doctorate in science, so that some farmer can mate with these calls. We know why they're so made that half the money stays in Ljubljana. But this is where the room should be screaming. Another time. I've always said, even though in Europe there is such a thing, grants are a source of evil. If we were to support the servicing of each loan, the full servicing of interest, today our agriculture would be more developed, more people would hope to invest in agriculture, more would succeed, and so it has been selected, and in this selection at the agriculture ministry there are strange patterns, I say. A farmer who does not have a developed lobbying or who is extremely honest is hard to succeed. And that's the bad side. So this proposal is a law, even though I'm the party to the chambers, but it has to do its job, which is to protect the farmer and advise the farmer and to represent his interests. See, Slovenian farmers are able to provide food self-sustainment, but we went back because they were destroyed by merchants. The merchants took the crazy margins and the processors. How else would it be possible for processors to buy milk from a foreign country, the processor pays it slightly better in some areas of Slovenia and brings back yogurts and dairy products cheaper than our dairy. And here's the role of cooperatives and cooperatives. They had every opportunity to develop, say, the dairy processing industry, became a 40 percent owner on their own, and unfortunately they almost lost it. Almost, I'd say, wasted. And on many occasions, they connected with the structures that were from the previous system, which had profits, especially in forestry, the same people moved on, even though the forest economies were once the branch of the Rising Against Farmers. And here the chamber has largely canceled. This is why this law is a catharsis, an opportunity for a catharsis of the administrative and bureaucratic structures of the Chamber. And we also need to respond in a similar way about a social relationship. They have to think about farmers, not administrations or structures. That is why this law needs to be put into a second reading and found the right solutions, because I will look carefully at who has come together now, who will protect such an unauthentic representation of farmers as we have now. I'll watch this very carefully, because I'm an advocate of the chamber if you work. Look at Denmark, there's no coercion, it's voluntary, and everyone wants to be there because they're putting pressure on the government, they're protecting farmers, they're crowds of farmers, not individuals. And there must be a chamber more than a cathartic reminder. Then, in the second reading, we can continue to discuss how to achieve the goals that the founders had set, and I have voted in favour of this law at that time, and they are relatively neglected today, and not all the things that should be managed are managed. After Cankarian, rejuvenation and purification, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber is also required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Now for the debate, I invite Mrs Ivo Dimic to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj and Mr Jože Tanko for her. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Once again, with the proposal for a law that we have tabled in Novi Slovenija, and this is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, we do not terminate the Chamber. I hope that it will no longer come to what has happened, that different messages will then be broadcast through the media. We just want to introduce an optional membership into the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. We have in mind, above all, those owners who may have inherited one of the orchards or I don't know what and then come to our office or meet people on the streets and say, "Why do I have to pay for it?" There's another thing. A lot of people said to us, "Why am I a member in three chambers?" This also means that we want a free membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, but at the same time I would like to stress that I see a lot of options where the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber can develop with its services offered to farmers. There are a lot of things where people would be prepared, just as certain things are already being paid, to pay even more if they had better support, if I may say so, in public services. I therefore suggest that this matter be looked at as well. I think if they develop even more, I can tell you what it's like to have a high-fat orchard cut. Once a year, we have circumcision training, but many would pay to come and show it to him in his own orchard. Here I see the possibility of things changing, while at the same time allowing those who want to be members to be members, to be non-members. I'm stressing again, we're not shutting down the halls.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Now he's going to be discussing mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u150	So we kind of brought today's debate about the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to an end. It seems that you, too, have seen some problems and problems in the functioning of the Agriculture and Forestry Chamber, but in spite of everything, you have been convinced or pressured by some, but it would not make sense to support this law that we have proposed. Therefore, once again, very clear and fickle. Those of you who say we're shutting down the Farm Forestry Chamber are wrong. We do not terminate it, but we allow people to express themselves and decide whether they want to participate in such a meeting. Those who say that it is necessary to give people the opportunity to comment on this at the referendum, I remind you once again that you are requesting a very dangerous matter for the Chamber, because those who are dissatisfied with the House will go to the referendum and they will plead against compulsory membership in the Chamber. Those who are satisfied with the chamber will stay at home, the quiet does not have most is easy. We have a case in the Chamber of Commerce. In order for this to happen, there is also an election participation in the elections, which is attended by 16% of the members. And what do we propose in marriage? We in law propose the softest transition. Even after the amendment of the rules of procedure, the members shall remain, only those who directly and explicitly require it may withdraw. Many of you have debated today that there is something wrong in the field of Slovenian agriculture. And that something is not right, it is also responsible for the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber, which should represent the interests and views of the farmer, and in this period from which the Chamber was established, we went down in self-sustainment, in the second activity in the field of agriculture, not to mention the latest responses which were very slow and only after other stakeholders had encouraged them in the event of an increase in the cadastral income and also in the case of a property tax forecast. Those who say cutting off a mandatory membership would be the end of the chamber, I place it on your heart to mean 7.5% of the budget of the Chamber. Each capable manager must get away from his most difficult organisation, his company without 7.5% of its budget. I believe that this is also capable of leading the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber or if it is not, it is better to leave this to the more capable. We're not suspending any powers to the chamber. We do not suspend the budget funding of the Chamber. However, it is a voluntary option that those who are dissatisfied with the House may leave this Chamber and, at the same time, it will be a great incentive for the House’s leadership to give more of themselves. If you compare what the Chamber of Commerce offers to craftsmen and what it offers to farmers, you can find that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia offers much more. Those who have reminded us in today's debate of the provisions of our former coalition treaty, I am very sorry, but these coalitions are no longer, but it is very fair and clear that the provision on the status of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy in the Coalition Treaty was created on the basis of a coalition party's request, while the other coalition parties advocated voluntary membership. Some of you have pointed out that we must not stop an organized conversationalist. An organised interlocutor does not necessarily mean that the objectives to be achieved by this Chamber will also be met. Some of you have pointed out that a change in the House's arrangements could pose a threat to EU funding. See, if farmers are monitoring this, then they know exactly that for all these services, to fulfil the subsidy applications farmers are already paying, it is said, is a service that will be paid today and will be paid later. That is why it does not threaten to draw on European funds, but it is very significant that you have warned others that in some other countries, in our northern neighbour, there is a chamber that comes to farmers and practically does everything they need to do to ensure that this role is properly fulfilled and that they also get the necessary money or subsidies. Some of you have said that there is already too little connection and cooperation between farmers. This morning, I spoke to one of the farmers from my community who said, "But you can think that years ago it was possible to go from the Kamnik Congregation to the protests organized by farmers. Today, five farmers are no longer able to get coffee." This is a very eloquent testimony to the condition and spirit of farmers. And that's why I'm even more confident that if you're trying to force someone to associate with someone, then you're going to have a counter-effect. However, if someone has an interest in getting together to achieve common goals, to make it more effective, to make progress, then this interest is much greater after the merger. And I would like to make a final statement, which many of you have suggested today. You said that because Nova Slovenija had already proposed the law in 2011 when it was still out of Parliament and, czech, since we had already rejected it and then considered it inappropriate, why would it be different today. Look, he says it's almost the same law, but don't forget that that law was filed in 2011 with 5,000 signatures of voters and voters. Today it was signed by the four Members of New Slovenia. Of course it's certified signatures. So this law, which is before you today, has some legitimacy and some support among the people. And if we have consistently found in today's debate that the matter is not right, then it would be a logical consequence to try to put these things in order, to change them, to change them, and, above all, to allow the debate. Since today is the first debate, the general debate is that we have discussed the objectives and principles of what we want in this law, I sincerely ask you to let this law go forward and allow it to come to a second reading. If you let it go forward, then we have the opportunity to correct it in those parts that are controversial for some and where it needs to be corrected in order to obtain the necessary majority for adoption. It's just, let's say, a constructive attitude. Everything else we cannot understand differently than the fact that today's debate and hours and hours of debate were totally unnecessary for all of you to come to this Chamber with a determination of how you will act without being thoroughly interested in the objectives and principles of this law. As I said, this law supports at least 5,000 people, these are old signatures from 2011, supported by many farmers who have called us these days. If you allow the law to go forward today, don't lose anything, but let's all win it together, and this is to keep the debate going, how and how to improve the agricultural situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Three more debaters, Mr Srečko Meh, Mr Lisco and Mr Brank Fick, have been announced for the debate. Now I give my word to Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u152	In fact, the area of who is a farmer and who is not a farmer would continue to lead to a debate on what kind of adjective we give [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] or for some content. [[...]] Of course, it is an extremely important activity in which we should look for ways to help, not how to break what is working now. It is not said that this act will be brought to ruin. It's about to start. We're going to deal with a matter that's not relevant right now. At this point, it is essential to enable farmers to have good conditions, even better conditions, to provide them with conditions so that they can grow more, to have more self-sustainment, and to achieve the goal we set ourselves to produce as much food as possible at home. Therefore, it is essential that we talk about this. I personally believe or believe that when we begin to reorganise something that works, we will cause confusion, doubts and, on the one hand, we will also think about what we should do in this area. I think that the chamber was present at this time when we were also talking about the cadastral income when we were talking about the self-sustainment issue, including Mercator, which was here today. But remember the debate about Fructal. We have also said that it will happen that farmers will not be able to have, and I am firmly convinced that it would be right to stop the horses and that at this stage we will start by discussing what and how to enable and how to all go in this direction. But if, in the meantime, the chamber itself finds that it has to make a difference, it has to make a change. Even later, the election to the chamber will not be significantly better. The assembly system worked, however it worked, it worked, it was present and farmers had an institution to represent. And elections are always like national elections, so I don't think that's the worst thing that ever happens if the chamber and the system work. I think it would be appropriate to maintain at least one of the chambers as such an example of competition for the others we have already dismantled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I have already said most of the above in the position of the SDS Group, but I must say that the applicant has also made very strong arguments as to why this law is worth letting go through the first hearing and then possibly in the second and third reading before the adoption may correct the minority. Perhaps he would start where the predecessor might have finished, with regard to the Slovenian farmer. I think that in these times it is one of the few laws or measures that favour the Slovenian farmer. I have already said in my position that I really do not understand why we have some stiff, scrupulous system of assembly in Slovenia, of course, except in the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where someone is under duress. I don't understand, we're going to some democratic market democracy, and then we're going to say no, because you, by some status or post, have to be a member. Why? I think we're free and that's the right thing to do. I must say that I have listened with interest to the Government's argument about why they are against this law. I must say that I had the feeling that these arguments, which will be so in half arguments, would have been drawn out of five veins, a coalition, at least a part, obviously the National List will remain at least part of the liberal party, by at least part supporting this law and releasing it through the first reading, according to my information. I really don't understand this fear what happens if it does. Let's take this first reading, and then we'll see how it goes. I think that the experience of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce shows that the decision was the right decision, that these are the chambers that members expect. Members expect such chambers that are in the best interest of those who need them. But if someone doesn't need it, I'm really stressing once again that I don't understand why we should decide. It seems to me that those who advocate a mandatory membership in individual chambers or in all chambers still see black and white films that ended with Slovenian independence, how something must be. You don't have to do anything. We have some responsibility to accept it. During this term or in these few months, we have limited our own debate, we are restricting ourselves from accepting or making amendments, and we are going to take the opportunity to decide things for ourselves, which in the end we will find that we are Members – guilty or not guilty – always guilty. This debate about the referendum among the members, but what if it is done as it was in a craftsman's law, where the membership gave the management of the Red Card, and despite the fact that the leadership, I have to say that at least in that referendum, I had a lot of information about how the leadership of the Chamber and how the regional exhibitions pressured the members, they have even deceived them, how nice it must be, because if it is not mandatory, it will fail. Like I said before. If something has to be compulsory, because it will otherwise fail, respected and respected, then I think that such organisations, such a society, in this case we do not even need such a chamber. I personally think this proposal is going in the right direction. I must say that I was also an incentive for an international comparison. That international comparison gave me a lot to think about. I am even leaning in some direction so that maybe in the direction of that infamous ZUJF, at least for some, they would propose a law that in all the chambers of law would change as many laws as they touch the constituency system, and that Members would suddenly assume this responsibility and compulsory membership, this membership under duress, would make it a voluntary membership. Like I said before, it's 2013 and we're still sticking to some skeletons. Above all, I think this marriage is very well-intentioned. Why? As the motioner has already said, we are not in any way interfering with the mandate of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, so the powers remain. If anyone thinks that the powers will be smaller, I have data here for 2012, what was the income of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Of the nearly 26.5 million funds raised, the total contribution amounted to two million, i.e. poor 6,7 % of total revenue. And now if we just think about whether it will be a voluntary membership, or whether it will not be a mandatory membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, if this half decide that this half is carrying half the financial burden, it is still only a million euro minus at 26 million. I still think that this does not mean anything to the chamber itself, of course, while the chamber has to be proactive. As I said before, I have the feeling that those chambers that are still under some compulsion of compulsory membership are more burdened with their functions and their positions within their chamber or within their system, while membership on the ground is paying for this rumble and harassment for functions, and many of these mandatory members have none of the things that the Chamber is supposed to set up. I think we have an opportunity today to follow the right path for a Slovenian farmer, unlike some other measures that are being prepared in the field of agriculture. While there may be a little more in one of the following laws, the Cadastrian Income Law, spoken of, of course, this law could also talk about how individual farmers fear that if there is no more mandatory membership in the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, then the subsidy is over. I must say that before each local election, I receive information from the field as to how people are feared, except that it is not said that the agricultural chamber is the one that gives the subsidy or any individual mayor, but that the subsidies come from the European funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we accept one CAP, this is a healthy farmer's mind, we support this law at first reading, and by doing so, at least in part, we are trying to go to our farmer, who is now asking himself, every morning, whether it still makes sense to be a farmer, working after twelve, sixteen hours every day within his farm, and then one way or another, the majority of this country picks up. I really hope that we will unite and let this law go through first reading and finally adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. The last one, however, is Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you very much. My colleague Tonin tried to round the matter up earlier, as if the debate was over, and I will say a few more words. As I said before, it does not seem appropriate for them to take this right to discuss the proposal of a group of Members and Members on compulsory or voluntary membership. Of course, you probably won't agree with that in NSa. It is up to the members of the agricultural holdings to decide what form they want, whether voluntary or compulsory, but not to decide which form they want. However, it must be important to the State and to us Members in what way or through which representative body the country will monitor the situation in agriculture. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also followed the practice of the European Court of Justice, which decided that compulsory membership was without prejudice to freedom of association. And when it was essentially written about the assessment of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber Act that the country must in the field of agriculture, forestry, etc. play your role, constantly monitor developments in agriculture, etc., ensure a representative body capable of representing different interests, etc. The Constitutional Court found that compulsory membership in the Chamber and compulsory payment of membership ensure the fulfilment of its basic tasks as provided for in Article 4 of the Chamber or Statute. Without compulsory membership, there would be a risk that the membership cycle would be reduced and that the Chamber would lose transparency in monitoring economic life in agriculture and forestry. So let's increase food production by consulting, not changing organisational models. My friend Tonin spoke earlier about increasing self-sustainment. Self-sustainment is not the fault of the advisors of the institutions or of the chamber, but of the inadequate agricultural policy of the past, which, if we wish, has been overly influenced by policies, parties, indirectly Members. Therefore, of course, this proposal, so that we can determine whether it will be voluntary or compulsory, cannot be supported. In fact, we should focus all our energy on achieving strategic objectives in the new financial perspective, which awaits us, to increase self-sustainment, to increase the competitiveness of agriculture, the food processing industry, and, of course, to increase the added value in agriculture. Unfortunately, our data show that the so-called factor income is behind the European average, we are only reaching about 45% of the factor income. When we look at EU members, older or eighteen, this only shows us 28% of the achievement of factor income. Every year, we go about EUR four hundred million in agriculture, we only get 1.2 billion in income, which is not appropriate in terms of the economy. By increasing the value added in agriculture, farmers will also pay higher fees or taxes if you want, and so on. We're not dealing with organisational models, but let's help, to achieve the strategic goals that we set ourselves in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I'm asking if the government wants a word first. He doesn't want to. On behalf of the proposer, he has the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u158	I'd really like to put two more messages on your heart. The first message is that we do not break anything with our proposal, but we are simply trying to create a better chamber. That's all we're interested in. If we create better conditions for a better chamber, then we will also get a more active chamber, which will be a driving force in the field of agricultural policy. If you ask yourself today and look for the past few years, whether the Agricultural-landing Chamber was the driving force that made proposals, which also gave certain directions to policy how and how it wanted to develop agriculture, we can sadly see that it was not. And here I have to agree with my colleague that too much time has been lost to internal battles and who will occupy the greatest functions in this Chamber, which is sad. With this proposal, we would also have a meeting of satisfied members, because this would involve those who wish to do so, not those who do not wish to do so and are therefore unhappy. Another message that has been sent to the government and others is that our marriage is inappropriately better than the one that is predicted to come if our marriage is not adopted. Because the laws that follow ours are going to be massacred in the area of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber because they envision a very hard transformation. We anticipate a very soft transformation and the referendum will take place on its own when each member decides whether he wants to participate in the Chamber or will leave. No referendum, nothing. But you will see what will be the result of the laws that are coming when the referendum comes, where the result will be inevitable and evident, because in one, two years it will not be possible to correct all this dissatisfaction that has so far accumulated among farmers in relation to the operation of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. I would like to conclude here, thank you all for the constructive and pleasant debate and, despite everything that has come to the vote, I ask you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to the first paragraph, Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is yet to be discussed. We still do. I'm opening a debate. Sign up for whoever you want. Two panellists have been reported. Mr. Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I, too, have been pleased to discuss the issue of the Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture and Economy in this company. Surely we all have one and the same purpose in order to resolve this matter as best we can. Agriculture is a sector that can be slightly different or significantly different from industrial production, such as other sectors of the Slovenian economy. I'm afraid if we don't pay enough attention to the farmer, I'm afraid it's going to cost us a hell of a lot when the state or the local communities have to pay for a basket of grass on the lawns and, God forbid, on the field. If we talk so much and have projections, dramatic projections have been made, what will happen in the next period with regard to food in order to increase by 40%. Who is the primary food producer? Are they not agricultural producers? Therefore, I think, colleagues and colleagues, it is good that, regardless of the length of each mandate, we should at least open the question of the organisation of a representative or representative of agricultural producers. And what colleague Matthew Tonin has already said is what is actually a free or voluntary membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. This is a referendum, though. I vote in favour of membership, for compulsory membership, means that I vote against membership, means I don't vote against membership. And let's really think about it, really those who voluntarily join will also have a desire to say something at the offices of the Chamber. However, it is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, and I repeat the numbers that the Pomurje farmers, said Pmurje is still the grain of Slovenia to pay 350 000 in Ljubljana and return 4 thousand 1.14%. So that there, uglyly said, "futra" among other things, the chamber office. We can't let that happen. And we are the legislative branch of power. We can't tell farmers to choose for themselves how they're going to work. For all I know, farmers can't make laws. But they can suggest something. And here is the opportunity to let this law go forward today and invite farmers to the Committee on Agriculture, where they can say what they are trying to do and what kind of organisation they want. But how can we hear farmers? It's probably too small for everyone in their own task force, on the street or somewhere else. So I invite you to give the green light to this law today and together make a law that will be good for Slovenian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, who the device didn't detect before. I don't care. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Benjamin Franklin said a very wise thought: The path to wealth depends only on two words, entrepreneurship and savings. We've forgotten that in Slovenia. For 20 years we've been oppressing entrepreneurs, farmers, destroying the economy, the results are clear. What about saving? We will only learn this when we no longer get credit in America, perhaps not in Europe anymore. Then I'm sure I had a personal experience, so I'm sure, and Goethe said, "What you haven't experienced, you don't understand. That's why we don't understand. And I don't understand either, but I do. Why am I talking? Because I help myself with wise thoughts and it's not good to be quiet. David Icke said: “One man cannot change the world, but he can spread information that will change the world. And I'm trying to make the world a better place. It is difficult to understand that in Slovenia we have more chambers and in some we must make members compulsory, by law, but in some they may be optional. You understand, we live in the same country? Why should one be a mandatory member and the other be optional? Have we not written in the constitution that Slovenia is a democratic and just state? Is it not the principle of fairness that whether I am a farmer, I am a craftsman or I have an economic society organised as a shareholder or a limited liability society, that of course I am an economic operator and that it must apply to all equally? This means that if we have started a process once that membership in the Chambers will be optional, we must go to the end of this process, and otherwise we, as a Parliament, sow inequality, injustice. And what example are we? If I continue in the style of my colleague Katarina Hotchevar, I'm glad she said the following. We in the Civil Gazette support the unloading of farmers, economies, etc. And I'll say the following. I'm working for the third Republic. A Republic that will support the principle of justice, equality. That's why it's not a dilemma at all, it's not a dilemma at all how we'd vote. When we have voted or when the first Slovenian Parliament has voted on an optional membership law in a chamber, this process must be completed – as soon as possible, the more it will respect the principle of justice. And on the principle of righteousness, of course, the whole society is. When we play the principle of righteousness and say once because of some purely selfish political interests, these chambers or economic entities belonging to this Chamber will have an optional membership, while economic operators belonging to another Chamber will have a mandatory membership, we have in fact legalised the principle of injustice. However, I do not believe that we as parliamentarians should be allowed to do so. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. When I got to the gym, I wasn't running, and then the voting device didn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. You have thus concluded today's part of the debate. I am now concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. This is the draft resolution on nuclear and SEVAL SECURITY in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2023. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Andre Stritar, Director of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u164	If you please, Andrea Jerina, State Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, of which the Administration is also an integral part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u165	You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! We are adopting the resolution on nuclear and radiation security submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We want to meet one of the requirements of international standards on the use of nuclear energy and ionising radiation sources. The Republic of Slovenia already has legislation and administrative arrangements in place in this area, which are fully in line with international standards. A few years ago, however, the Member States of the International Atomic Energy Agency, in one of the basic standards, also called for each country to commit itself to ensuring nuclear and radiation safety as a top priority. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that the resolution of the National Assembly would be best covered by such a comprehensive political issue. With the motion for a resolution on nuclear and radiation safety, we would therefore like to add to the existing legislative and administrative system in this area a fundamental broad orientation. The resolution sets out in the first part 10 basic security principles, which are already taken into account, directly or indirectly, by the current legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. These 10 principles are internationally established and are followed in all countries where nuclear energy is used. The following texts briefly describe nuclear and radiation activities in a country where our nuclear power plant in Krske is central. The following is a review of Slovenia's international involvement in this area, which is very extensive due to the nature of the area. A brief description of the legislation in force in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection is given and a presentation of the institutional framework, which, in addition to the country of administration and the competences of the various nuclear and radiation security departments, also sets out a broader institutional framework. The resolution does not overlook the competence of professional support, and in this context it addresses pressing issues related to research and development and education and training. Research and development activities are also linked, and public participation and the commitment to quality, excellence in governance and security culture are of particular importance. Since we are preparing resolutions for a certain period of time in the Republic of Slovenia, we have also foreseen the validity of this resolution for 10 years. It will certainly make sense to review its validity after 10 years and then to update it at will or if necessary. In the last chapter of the motion for a resolution, we have narrowed down the objectives and measures to achieve them over the next 10 years. Slovenia has already followed very closely international standards and best practices in the field of nuclear and radiation safety, as confirmed by many international missions that have visited us in recent years. We have a legislative and institutional framework in line with the directives of the European Union and Slovenia is also a signatory to all important international conventions in this area, so most of the objectives and guidelines set out in the resolution are aimed at maintaining the already high-quality situation. However, it is stated that it is necessary to follow developments closely and to initiate measures after improvements if and when the need arises. The resolution imposes on the competent authorities an annual verification of the achievement of the objectives and the implementation of the measures, to be reported to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the annual report on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. Under the existing legislation, this report shall be delivered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of June each year to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Although you are not listed here as a person who could represent the position of the Government, and I do not know what special authority this event has taken place, we hope that the Government will continue to ensure the presence of its representatives as it has announced to the National Assembly. We continue to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as a parent working body. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. State Secretary, Director, Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a resolution on nuclear and radiation safety in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2023 was discussed at the 21st meeting on 29 May this year. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety and the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the motion for a resolution of a editorial nature and adopted them as its amendments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supported the motion for a resolution with some comments. In the debate, members of the SDS Committee expressed some concerns and also criticism of the content covered by the motion for a resolution. They thus pointed out that it was an act which listed only the facts and only the facts of the current state of nuclear and radiation safety, and it was not possible to see from the text what the country's nuclear and radiation safety guidelines and plans were in the next ten years. In addition, very little attention is paid to the national energy programme which the Government should have already adopted, but at this point it is not even clear what stage it is preparing and what are the open issues that this programme is supposed to solve. One of the most important concerns of the inhabitants of Posavia is the process of building a landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste. In particular, it was pointed out that the drafters of the motion for a resolution did not follow the 2012 decision of the Government, by which the Government imposed on the Nuclear Safety Authority to draw up a resolution on the national nuclear safety strategy, not just a resolution. In the light of those comments, the SDS Committee members considered that it would be only reasonable for the Government to draw up a new motion for a resolution, taking into account that decision of the Government. The members of the coalition parliamentary groups, however, expressed their conviction that the motion for a resolution should be supported despite the awareness that it was a general guidance document, which will give appropriate guidance to the executive branch in the field of nuclear safety by adopting the National Assembly. They also agreed that a further step should be taken in a short time and that a national plan on nuclear safety should be drawn up, which must be significantly more operational than the resolution. The view is also expressed that the motion for a resolution should also focus on the safety of people living next to nuclear installations. This means that they must be prepared for possible extraordinary events and taught how to act in the event of accidents and evacuations, how information is to be carried out, and what is the responsibility of individuals at such events. The following concerns the motion for a resolution on the envisaged merger of the Nuclear Safety Authority and the Radiation Protection Authority with a separate public agency. It is difficult to expect that a new agency could be set up to take into account the guidance on reducing the number of institutions in the country, so it would be advisable to find an alternative solution, but within the framework of the state administration, which could contribute equally effectively to the fusion of nuclear safety and radiation safety. Following a discussion on the basis of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and some members of the Committee, the Committee adopted amendments which are included in the supplementary motion for a resolution which is an integral part of the report of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Representative of New Slovenia Mrs Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear government team, colleagues and fellow Members! Slovenia can be said to be a nuclear state. It is therefore committed to respect for a number of international standards in the field of nuclear and radiation safety. Representatives of the Government, ministries, the Office of Nuclear Safety, the Administration of Radiation Protection and other institutions also guarantee that the situation in this area is comparable to those of the leading countries, i.e. at a high level. We can hope that's true. However, in the New Slovenia Group we warn that this is not enough. Let us recall the tragic accident in Fukushima, which rocked Japan's nuclear power, and thus the whole world. Do not let Slovenia be affected by such things, but we must be prepared to do our best in the face of various calamities. We are detained until the envisaged merger of the Nuclear Safety Authority and the Radiation Protection Authority into the new public agency. The internal minister of this government predicts more against existing agencies, and all measures go in the direction of reducing their numbers. So the merger is not real. In addition, we do not have sufficient data on the positive and likely negative effects of such a merger. The resolution is intended to give a more detailed direction to our country in the field of nuclear and radiation safety by 2023, which is for a period of 10 years. In fact, it describes the current state of the area relatively well, and in New Slovenia we miss a strategy, a plan for the future. In the New Slovenia Group, we support and want to strengthen the study programmes on nuclear safety, as well as research programmes which are of paramount importance for the future of nuclear and radiation safety in our country. In the New Slovenia Group we announce support for the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u172	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety in 2011, invited the International Atomic Energy Agency to carry out the so-called IRRS mission within its regular activities and in accordance with the provisions of Council Directive 2009/71 Euratom establishing a framework for the safety of nuclear facilities. The mission reviewed in detail the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia's Nuclear Safety Authority, which also covered the areas of work of other administrative authorities with jurisdiction over nuclear and radiation safety issues in the country. In particular, it has verified the compliance of our regime with the security standards of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Despite a clear assessment of the mission report by which the Republic of Slovenia has a comprehensive and effective legislative framework, it recommended in its report, inter alia, that a national nuclear safety policy and strategy should be drawn up and that their implementation should be supported by a national plan providing adequate national infrastructure. At the hearing of the report of the International Atomic Energy Agency on the work of the IRRS mission, annexed to the Government by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Nuclear Safety Authority, the Government, by decision 23. 8. 2012 has commissioned the same administration to draw up a resolution on the national nuclear and radiation security strategy in the country, I stress the strategy. This resolution, which has been drafted, well describes the current situation, summarises current international obligations and activities, perceives some weaknesses in the regulatory system with a solution proposal, detects problems in human resources education, detects problems in research and development work. The weaknesses of this resolution, however, are that the debt and relatively imprecise document does not define the desired situation and the related necessary changes. It does not define the necessary national processes, their responsible actors, the necessary resources and measurable objectives. The very title already lacks a strategy and, in our opinion, does not justify the expectations of the contracting authority and the recommendations of the international Atomic Security Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State and Director of the Department of Nuclear Safety, a nice greeting from my colleague and colleagues! The resolution on nuclear and radiation safety is intended to implement the standards adopted by the International Agency for Nuclear Safety in 2010. Although these standards are not binding, they are generally taken into account by all nuclear energy users. The principles of nuclear and radiation safety are the first part of that resolution. The document then describes the history and current state of business in this area, notes that the situation in Slovenia is internationally comparable and generally good. All forms of international cooperation that are relevant to Slovenia are described in great detail, then the applicable legislation governing this area, as well as all institutions with specific competences in the field of nuclear and radiation safety in Slovenia. The main part of the document concerns the objectives and measures for their operation in the coming decade and, in addition to these 12 objectives, is the introductory part on the principles of nuclear and radiation safety, which is certainly a key part of this document. Our view in the Group of Social Democrats is that these 12 objectives are very important, although they are not too ambitious. Social Democrats also point out that the resolution on nuclear and radiation security, in addition to international standards, must also take into account the findings of the threat situation in the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly in 2010. Although at first sight the state of compliance with international standards may be very good, this must not put us to sleep on issues relating to the awareness of the inhabitants of nuclear facilities about possible dangers and measures in the event of a nuclear accident, as already pointed out in his report by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, Mr Jakob Presečnik. The very area that I am now mentioning was in a study that was made recently in an intradisciplinary project group led by Professor Dr. Marjan Malešić for the needs of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which has shown that the weak link in the regulation of nuclear safety in Slovenia is precisely the people concerned by this nuclear safety. On the one hand, we obviously have a fairly well-managed institutional nuclear security, and we have less awareness of possible dangers, especially those living around nuclear facilities, and their knowledge of measures in cases of different accidents. In addition to this resolution, there is, of course, a state plan for a nuclear accident, but researchers note that experience from nuclear accidents around the world in recent years has shown that people need to be better trained and equipped. We can say that the potassium iodine tablets that were distributed to potential endangered residents early in June this year were a good opportunity to raise awareness of possible dangers when they were distributed. In the municipality of Krško they have already gone in the direction of the recommendations of the above-mentioned survey and have in fact exceeded the framework that the resolution in question is currently in force here. Although the resolution is rather unambitious, we will support it by the Social Democrats, because we believe that such a document is necessary. It proves that, as a country producing and using nuclear energy, and even as a country with uranium mines, even in closure, in the Žirov Summit, we are accountable to our citizens and to the international community. Finally, every year the National Assembly will be able to provide further guidance and monitoring on nuclear and radiation safety in Slovenia on a report prepared by the Nuclear Safety Authority on implementation and resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Although we have an institutional and legislative framework for nuclear safety, nuclear energy and ionising radiation in the Republic of Slovenia, we support the proposal for a resolution on nuclear and radiation security in Slovenia for the period 2013-2023. The resolution is intended to be a cover document setting out a policy in the field of nuclear and radiation safety, resulting from the recommendation of the IRRS mission under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency. While it is worth noting here, we have already heard this today that the mission has estimated that Slovenia has a comprehensive and functioning legislative framework in the field of nuclear and radiation safety. Otherwise, the content of the resolution deals, inter alia, with ten basic safety principles of nuclear and radiation safety. These include responsibility for security, management and management, protection of present and future generations, disaster prevention and others. Furthermore, the resolution describes nuclear and radiation activities in Slovenia, the area of international cooperation, existing legislation, the competence of professional support and 12 objectives and measures to achieve them in the period to 2023. Let me stress that by nature nuclear and radiation safety is the fundamental objective of protecting people and the environment from unnecessary harmful effects of ionizing radiation. Your Honor! The accidents in Chernobyl and Fukushima were horrendous warnings that such extraordinary events should be prepared to the greatest extent possible. Despite the fact that the potential for the recurrence of such a tragedy in Slovenia as a country that uses nuclear energy for peaceful purposes is minimal, this danger nevertheless exists. And if we may witness in the future the construction of the second block of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, there will be at least another generation of craftsmen in its vicinity. So, to the best extent possible, let it be ensured that the nuclear danger in a normal life will not have to be realized at all. In the Civil Gazette, we would like this to be the case and that the resolution would contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob President on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you again very much for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Electricity generation using nuclear technology and the use of other devices using ionising radiation sources such as X-ray appliances are common components of each developed company, including Slovenian. Therefore, the establishment of an effective and transparent institutional security system against the effects and consequences of such radiations is of paramount importance. Knowledge of this is growing from year to year, and it is especially strengthened by possible accidents, which are extremely rare but so much more destructive and repulsive. Consider, for example, the pre-Last accident at the Japanese nuclear power plant in Fukushima, which some colleagues have already highlighted before me. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the motions for a resolution that the Slovenian nuclear and radiation safety regime is both administrative and legislatively appropriate, as it is sufficient for all international standards, particularly those of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Of course, there is a fundamental political and professional focus on commitment to nuclear and radiation safety, which must always remain a priority in comparison with other aspects of the use of such technologies and radiations as reflected in the proposed resolution. The basis for the proposed document is the basic standard of the international Atomic Security Agency, a state legal and administrative framework for nuclear and radiation safety, which defines commitment to this area at the highest political level. The resolution sets out in its content, inter alia, nuclear and radiation activities, 10 basic safety principles, which refer to the legislative framework, which is also described in detail in the document. The final work, however, sets out the objectives and measures for the successful implementation of the proposed solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the resolution is a document that regulates a specific area at the principal level over a long period of time, and therefore it is unrealistic to expect that it will define any concrete action on the issue under consideration. However, the proposed resolution could more specifically define the issue of a nuclear waste landfill which is obviously not yet regulated and could also be given greater emphasis to providing more appropriate professional support in the coming years, as the situation of ageing experts in this area and the poor interest of young people is quite worrying. In our parliamentary group, we are also skeptical of the planned merger of the Nuclear Security Authority and the Administration of Radiation Protection into a public agency. In our opinion, it would be more appropriate to maintain this area within the state administration. Nevertheless, Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed resolution on nuclear and radiation safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. However, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 4th A-point of the agenda, which is to defend the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Catastro Income. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Mags. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The cadastral income law was implemented in 2011 primarily in order to update the outdated methodology for determining Qatari income and thus place the assessment of the potential market income of agricultural or forestry land at a real source. In view of the one-year submission of the entry into force of the law, the new methodology for the determination of cadastral income will be used for the first time in 2013. In accordance with the law, the Geodetic Authority prepared proposals for calculations for new calculations and proposals for new cadastral income scales this spring. The consideration of the calculation proposals, which will be valid for at least five years, showed disagreement as to which costs should be taken into account. However, the first proposals for new cadastral income scales received a number of comments, at which it was shown that some of the figures taken into account should still be verified or even corrected. In general, calculations showed that the cadastral income for certain types of use, such as fields and grass, should be reduced according to the cadastral income calculated according to the old methodology. However, for some, especially permanent plants, it would have increased significantly. The time foreseen by the law for the consideration and harmonisation of proposals has proved relatively short for the year of implementation, when both the calculation proposals and the scales themselves are considered. As a matter of concern, the public debate also highlighted the date of application of the data. The opinion was that landowners should be informed of new calculations years in advance. At its joint meeting on 30 May this year, the Committee on Agriculture, the Environment and Forestry and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly also discussed the issues and requirements for amendments. The proposal for the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act, which is before you, addresses all the problems described above and follows the conclusions of the above-mentioned parliamentary committees. The draft law thus introduces the following solutions: introduces a new indicator of production with forest capacity; this is a growth coefficient; implements a solution whereby the new cadastral income will be determined not for the current year but for the year ahead; regulates a transitional period in 2013, when the date for publication of new calculations is 31 August 2013 and not 30 June 2013; regulates a transitional solution for determining the cadastral income for 2013 in a way that takes into account the new calculations; and for this year, the cadastral income is determined not to be higher than 10 % of the cadastral income for the purposes of the calculation, and finally establishes a transitional arrangement for 2013 for the calculation of the cadastral income with the date of accounting for this income. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in a text, as supplemented by the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, so that the amendment of the law can enter into force before 30 June of this year, thus achieving the desired effects both in this year and in the year of implementation of the new methodology and also in the coming years of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ivan Grill, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice hello to you all. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 61st emergency meeting. 6. 2013 as a parent working body, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was approved by the College of the National Assembly. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in addition to its general comments on specific solutions, forwards its comments to Articles 4, 5 and 9 of the legislative proposal. Parliamentary Group SDS and New Slovenia 17. Two amendments were tabled on 6 2013 to Articles 5 and 9 of the proposal. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee, at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, took note of two other proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 4 and 9 of the proposal. A further explanation of the articles in the context of the opening of the second hearing at the meeting of the Committee, presented by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, explained the basic sets of envisaged solutions by proposing that both proposals for amendments to the Committee, which are editorial in nature, should also be adopted by the Committee. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly further stated that the warnings sent from the general part of the written opinion relating to substantive issues in terms of constitutional principles remained open and gave effect to the text submitted. In response to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the Government said that the text submitted allowed the two criteria for determining the cadastral income, both the growth coefficient and the land ratings to be taken into account. Since the text submitted is merely a way of taking into account the cadastral income in determining the tax base, the position presented in the present text is not a matter of unconstitutional interference or of retroactive resolution. In the debate on individual articles, members of the opposition, SDS and Nova Slovenija, both in full and in concrete solutions, in particular Articles 5 and 9, to which the amendment was also tabled, also on the basis of practical cases, presented different opinions, expressed concerns and raised a number of questions. Members of the coalition expressed support for the text submitted. At the time of consideration of the individual articles of the text, with regard to the amendments submitted to Article 5 which provides for general notification of all the debtors, it was noted by the representative of the Government that the owners who should receive the notification were 500 000, so that each of them has the opportunity to look into the electronic application of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia for the publication of the own list. At the same time, the envisaged notification is not a document opening further proceedings or the possibility of a complaint. Furthermore, in relation to the questions raised, among other things, it was explained that the transfer of the Austrian system, referred to as optimum in the preceding debate, would constitute a significantly higher value of the cadastral income, that the text presented does not constitute tax law but introduces a method of flat-rate determination of the potential income from a given land and that the novelty does not have a direct impact on the management of the basic agricultural and forestry activities. In addition, the introduction of gradual adjustment or the envisaged gradual transition to the new methodology, based on the old methodology, is more appropriate in view of the unrealistic assessments. At the time of its consideration, the Committee, having regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service pursuant to Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted two amendments to the Committee, namely Articles 4 and 19 of the legislative proposal. The amendments to the SDS and New Slovenia by 5, and to Article 9, the Committee did not adopt them. In the final part of the hearing, the Committee voted jointly and adopted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee, the text of the amended law in which both amendments are incorporated is prepared pursuant to Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you so much for this presentation. Here comes the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, Group of the positive Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, the representative of the Ministry! The new cadastral income calculations, which were first published this year under the 2011 Cadastrian Income Identification Act, have raised a lot of dust in the public eye. It turns out that the calculations relied largely on incorrect or inadequate data, and their application would in practice entail an enormous burden on the owners of agricultural and forest areas. In view of the public’s response and the irregularities identified in the new methodology in particular in the area of forestry, the Government has decided on a transitional period for the implementation of a new methodology in which new calculations could be duly harmonised, while also allowing forest and agricultural owners to be informed of income estimates in a timely manner for the year ahead. In practice, this means the possibility for them to decide whether to remain in the flat-rate expenditure system or to start accounting for their activities. The proposed amendments to the cadastral income law provide that the determination of cadastral income for forests and agricultural land will not only take account of the land’s profitability but also of the growth coefficient and the structure of the forest range. We know that the last calculations were made in 1989 and that in most cases they are no longer real, as real use has changed during that time. We therefore hope that the new calculations will be based on transparent data, which will be treated equally with respect to regional characteristics. The database on which the calculation of cadastral income will be based will need to be updated in detail. The main solutions to the proposed amendments to the law are: to address the shortcomings arising from the current methodology for accounting for cadastral income, as the new methodology for calculating cadastral income will be based on actual land use and statistical regions will be taken into account instead of cadastral thefts. Catastrophe income will be determined in advance for the year, new calculations will be published by 30 June of the current year and income estimates will only be taken into account in the following year. The new calculations will be taken into account on the basis of the calculations prepared by 31 August 2013 and will be taken into account in the following year to take into account the data for the purpose of income. If the cadastral income for the same area is higher than 10 % of the old area, the calculation of the cadastral income for 2012 will be taken into account. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia particularly welcomes the possibility of viewing the cadastral income for each owner for a year in advance, but since the estimates of cadastral income will be known for a year in advance, this will facilitate the planning of the impact of this income on the material situation of each individual. In particular, the social implications need to be stressed, since natural persons who carry out basic agricultural or forestry activities will be able to decide whether to pay the calculated cadastral income flat or to start managing books, which will then be taken into account in the system of income, pension and health insurance, the determination of different social rights, the level of the contribution to the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and more. In this way, for 2013, the social sustainability of the system is ensured, allowing the owners of agricultural and forestry land to adapt to the cadastral income system for the following year and deciding whether to pay the cadastral income found on a flat-rate assessment of their own agricultural land and forests or to decide on a methodology for paying cadastral income after the actual income to be determined on the basis of bookkeeping data. For all the reasons mentioned in the Group of Members, Positive Slovenia supports amendments and additions to the Cadastrian Income Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u186	Say hello to everyone again. At the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly, we supported the enlargement of the agenda by addressing the proposal for a cadastral income law and stressing that the proposal for this law will be supported only if the amendments we tabled to this Act are taken into account. The first amendment to Article 5 of the Law of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia would require that, after a calculation of the level of cadastral income has been made, all landowners send an informational calculation on the basis of which landowners will be able to decide how to proceed in advance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such a solution for landowners would be of great help and relief, as many of them do not have Internet access and adequate computer equipment to allow them to view the GURS official website where data on cadastral income calculations will be available. Unfortunately, this well-intentioned and clearly useful proposal by the Government and the coalition on the Committee did not receive support for people. It also does not seem fair to us in the SDS that, according to the proposal of this law, KD's new valuation of landowners will increase the cadastral income by 10% in relation to the calculation in 2012. We have therefore tabled an amendment that would allow all landowners who would be given a new calculation of KD's higher amount than it was in 2012 to maintain it at the 2012 level. We find it unacceptable in the SDS that in already difficult situations, where farmers and other crop processors are now present, there is an additional burden on them with higher taxes. In the SDS, we agree that the current method of determining cadastral income is incomplete, unfair and needs to be amended, but not in such a way as to raise cadastral income by 10% for 2013 at the outset. For that reason, we have re- tabled an amendment to Article 9 of the Law. Despite the fact that this amendment has not been adopted on the Committee, we would like to discuss this again and make a decision. If this amendment does not receive sufficient support in the vote, we will not be able to support this law in the SDS. In the event that the amendment is voted on, we will also give support to this law in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u188	Your Honor! Social Democrats support amendments to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which sets the procedure for determining cadastral income a year in advance. It is decided that the new calculations will be published by 30 June of the current year and that income estimates will only be taken into account in the following year. The law also eliminates the identified methodological deficiencies and takes account of the growth coefficient as well as the structure of forest forest varieties, in addition to the assessment of forest production in forestry. The law also regulates the transitional period in 2013 when, with a view to extending the deadline for the coordination of calculations and taking into account other data for the assessment of forestry production as a date for publication of new calculations, it provides for 31 August 2013. A preliminary solution is being established to determine the cadastral income for 2013 in such a way that, according to the cadastral income for 2012, the undertaking will not increase by more than 10 %. The possibility of looking into the cadastral income of the individual owner for a year in advance is being regulated. The law contains a transitional provision for 2013 for the reference to the date of calculation of the cadastral income, which is 31 August, with the date of taking account of that data for the purposes of income, which is 30 June. For this reason, the SD Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cadastrian Income Identification Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar has the floor on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Initially, it is appropriate to establish that the system of accounting for cadastral income, established in 1976, is indeed necessary for renovations and it must be recognised that it is also underestimated in some cases. However, the new cadastral income law was adopted in 2011 and established a new method and methodology. Before last summer, we adopted the novel and postponed the implementation of the new way. Today we're kind of doing it again. This is because both the profession and the growers themselves have warned that the calculated levels of cadastral income for individual agricultural sectors, especially wine-growing and fruit-growing, are significantly too high and to an excessive extent deviate from the actual average events that can be achieved by means of an average local type and level of production on agricultural and forest land. Simplifyingly, the new methodology for calculating revenue is minus the cost. However, the drafters overestimated the crops and underestimated the costs of the producers. On the one hand, we can also ask ourselves about the effectiveness of our state institutions and our decision makers that the law was passed in 2011 and has not yet been implemented today. On the other hand, given the fact that we currently have a system of accounting from 1976, the worst solution would be to now implement a system that is unfair and disproportionate. We will therefore support the amendment of the law in the National Gazette and call on the competent institutions to prepare the appropriate basis for the implementation of the new methodology as soon as possible. The amendments to the novel are in the direction of the conclusions adopted at the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance at the end of May. I will not repeat them again in this place, because they have been nicely summarized by the Secretary of State and also by some of my predecessors. Therefore, let the novel, which pushes the way of the new methodology for calculating the cadastral income, be accompanied by a thought that is close to our Slovenian farmers, who often say 'the barn then the cow'. We politicians must be careful that we do not burden the Slovenian farmer to the extent that both agricultural facilities and animals disappear from our farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Slovenian People's Party and Mr Franci Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u192	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Allow me to begin by expressing my thanks to the Ministry of Finance and the others, who have followed the decisions we have taken on the Joint Committee and have prepared this amendment of the law that solves this problem, in which we have found ourselves at such unrealistic calculations that geodetic legislation has drawn up on the basis of the data it has received for the calculation of cadastral income. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have received a number of calls that there is something to be done and I am glad that we have all managed together to make an effort in the National Assembly, now the Government, too, to correct this mistake, which would be a real disaster for some sectors. Similarly, the enormous jump in KD, as calculated, would in a number of cases also mean a leap in that threshold of EUR 7 000 500, when farms would be compulsory bookkeeping and thus add new costs to these individual bookkeeping services in addition to higher taxes. We know that catastrophe income also has a major impact on other public funds benefits, such as social, health benefits, and therefore there is a real need for thorough reflection. Thank God, we can say that we've been met by reason and that we're putting an end to this today. But we have a lot of work to do in the future, because the Geodetic Administration, together with the experts, both the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and other experts will have a difficult job to do in the coming weeks and months to get clear calculations by the end of August, as promised, which will be a good basis for us to review and see how it will be in the future. The solutions proposed by this amendment to the law solve the key challenges are that no one will have more than 10% more of the cadastral income in this year, and those who have the same or less of the new methodology will have a new one, and those who would have more than 10% of the profits will remain at that plus 10%. As far as the following years are concerned, this is also arranged for these calculations to be obtained by 31 August and that this situation can easily be foreseen in the future. There has been some talk that the law is relatively old, that if we look at the old bases in the law and compare them with other countries, we see that our neighbours in Austria have been paying tax fees since 1964 after the same law and that this predictability is significantly greater than we do when we see that these calculations can vary, from one calculation to another, depending on what geodesy data they enter into their calculations. That is why it is absolutely necessary – and in the Slovenian People's Party we will be very careful to monitor these calculations, which will now appear, also identify the current consequences of them and, in the spirit of the good negotiations so far, I believe that, together with the competent ministries, we will also find out whether there is anything to be done in any of the laws, so that the consequences of the new calculations do not interfere drastically with the rights and the possibilities of farming Slovenian farms. It has already been said here that on farms we would be near the stables, next to the cows, I am very afraid that even with farmers on farms, if we do not have some smart agricultural policy, and I believe that we will all be able to make so much effort and wisdom together, that this very important tax policy concerning the agricultural sector, to this sector, will also be friendly in the future, so that there will be no reason for people to leave this activity, on which the population also depends to a large extent on the appearance of our beautiful country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law and thus solve the problem in which we are in.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u194	What a lovely greeting to all present! Under the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which entered into force at the end of February 2011, the cadastral income should be assessed on new foundations by 30 June 2012 at the latest. The first calculations, which were made only at the end of December 2012, were checked by the professional institution and then publicly decommissioned within the statutory deadline. The responses focused on the inadmissibility of calculations, which was supposed to be too high, especially for vineyards and some others. Some errors were also noted in the calculations, inadequacy of some data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and methodologically inappropriate solutions. Above all, it has been shown that this law should provide for a longer period of discussion and coordination for the implementation of the first calculations. The proposer wants to improve the income-finding system by eliminating the identified methodological deficiencies and by linking the calculation of cadastral income not only to land credit, but also to the growth coefficient. In addition to the data on the average cut, it also takes into account the structure of forest wood varieties. The amendment introduces the procedure for determining cadastral income for a year in advance, as it provides that new calculations shall be published by 30 June of the current year and that income estimates shall be taken into account only in the following year. The proposal regulates the transitional period for this year and the date for publication of the new calculations is set at 31 August of this year. The proposed amendment regulates a transitional solution for determining the cadastral income for 2013 in such a way that the cadastral income for 2012 does not exceed 10 % for the debtors. This is called 2012 plus 10%. It also regulates the possibility of looking into the cadastral income of the individual owner for a year in advance. At the same time, the proposal contains a transitional provision for 2013 with a reference to the date of calculation of the cadastral income with the date of application of this data for the purposes of income. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the proposal for a new law on cadastral income, as has been said. However, we will continue to closely monitor all the additions and changes that will be proposed and will continue to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Plevčak. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Let me begin by explaining that Members of the New Slovenia Group have been detained until the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law. The cadastral income law entered into force at the end of February 2011 and entered into force on 1 July 2011. The new basis for the assessment of cadastral income should apply by 30 June of last year at the latest. For the calculation of the cadastral income, the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible, but it has not done its work in time. The reason given by the Geodetic Authority is that there is insufficient financial resources for the payment of additional employment and additional equipment. For this reason, the calculation period was extended by one year, i.e. until 30 June of this year. Despite the extension of the deadline for one year, the Geodetka Administration of the Republic of Slovenia did not disclose the calculations of the cadastral income on new foundations until May this year. The new cadastral income calculations are unrealistically high compared to the previous calculations, the errors are in the calculations themselves, and most importantly, the statistics of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia have proved to be inappropriate. In Novi Slovenija we also note that the Geodetic Administration has not done its legal obligations in time for the second time and therefore it is necessary to recast this law. The public disclosure should be carried out at least six months earlier. In this case, the data could also be corrected in due time. We are therefore wondering why the Geodetic Authority has thus delayed the public disclosure of the data and how the errors in the data are even in the calculations themselves. In New Slovenia we strongly oppose the increase in cadastral income. The current cadastral income law does not substantially change the methodology for the calculation of cadastral income compared to the previous law. It is only a more modern approach to assessing market value, possible production, reduced by the urgent cost of production, which instead of the cadastral classes introduces credit points taking into account the location of land according to the individual region. Therefore, the transition to a new, more modern way of calculating cadastral income should not lead to significant changes in the height of cadastral income. However, the cadastral income scale presented in the public decommissioning represents a drastic rise or multiple of the current cadastral income. In particular, derogations are observed when compared to the assessment of individual types of agricultural land use as well as forests in individual statistical regions. To illustrate this, the cadastral income of the country's best quality, 90 to 100 credit points, is estimated at €177 in the Central Slovenian region and €277 in the Notranj-Karska region, although the climate conditions are the conditions of processing, and last but not least the conditions of sale in the Central Slovenian region are significantly better than in the Notranj-Karska region. The scale of the calculation of the cadastral income shows a number of illogicalities and requires a thorough correction, both computational and methodological. In New Slovenia we stress that the calculation of cadastral income has a significant impact on the situation of farmers and farmers' families, i.e. citizens living in rural areas. We are opposed to any changes in the calculation of cadastral income, which will exacerbate the situation of rural families in 2013 as well as in the coming years. Catastrophe income is included in the income of farmers. It affects the obligation to manage farm accounting on the basis of actual income and expenditure. Accounting by actual income and expenditure means not only tax but also administrative burden for farmers, and staff, taking into account the age structure of the owners of farms in Slovenia. Catastrophe income also affects the eligibility of farmers and their family members to social security benefits. We stress in particular the right to scholarships for students and students in the future, in fact allowing rural youth access to education and study. It is further concerned with child supplements, protective supplements, payment of kindergartens and the like. Any future intervention in increasing the tax burden and resulting reduction of social security benefits will make the situation of farmers and farmers' families worse, which we oppose in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. We have one amendment tabled, which is Article 9. The amendments were tabled to the SDS and NSI. I give the floor to Members of Parliament and Members who wish to discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you very much. As I have already said in my presentation on the position of the Group of Members, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have re- tabled an amendment to Article 9, where we would amend the provision of this bill to make it possible for all those who, according to the new methodology, will increase their cadastral income by more than 10%, after this proposal by 10%, and we propose that this amendment be maintained at the same level as it was in 2012. Why do we feel that this would be more correct and, of course, more acceptable? In a relatively short period of time, we have witnessed two calculations of individual cadastral income, which were fundamentally different from each other, which gives us the impression that a new calculation to be made by 31 August, at least as recorded in this bill, is a big question of what this new calculation will be. Will this calculation be based on realistic assumptions, on the correct methodology? Are we also going to witness some mistakes here, the origins of different data, and so on? It would therefore be appropriate for all those who show higher cadastral income than they were in 2012 to be kept at the same level in the calculation of the new methodology. Although 10% will say that there is not much, just one small part of this jump can affect a variety of agricultural operators either receiving a scholarship or some other rating they have. To avoid this, it would be right to accept this amendment in this way. I believe that this does not mean any substantial financial impact for the country or less of an inflow. For people, especially now that the period of this calculation is very unclear, we can say that this could cause a lot of public noise again, but this would be reasonable and, of course, excused. That's why we tabled this amendment. We hope that he will also receive sufficient support in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I am opening up the possibility of applying to the debate because there are several debaters. Five panellists have been reported. The first is Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u200	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, the Ministry's representative! We probably all agree that this law, which is before us today, is better than that existing one, which would probably completely destroy the Slovenian farmer, but the government has not been able to hold back from giving the Slovenian farmer a tenth to pay for it. I think that this amendment, which we have tabled and which destroys it, is the right step in the right direction, because I think raising cadastral income without sending some information calculation to farmers, so that farmers can even know what they can expect, is the wrong decision mainly in the direction that someone has not done his job or his homework in two years. As I said, the bill is better than existing, but we must be aware that roughly at the Ministry of Finance and at the Ministry of Agriculture there is about the same structure of people, the ruling set of people who, I will say, have also cooked this existing state, and now almost five before the 12th, we are trying to remedy this situation. I really wonder what the purpose of the government is when, on the one hand, it talks about promotion and self-care in Slovenian agriculture, but it works the other way around. Even this possible amendment, if of course not adopted, will probably raise the cadastral income by 10% to one more mosaic, which will help to heal farms, abandon beekeeping, fruit farming and wine growing. We are also giving our market a greater opportunity to return, as I have already said on the committee, Macedonian grapes, Macedonian apples and Macedonian strawberries. And this is such a agricultural policy that I'm not giving her my right. That is why I propose that we support this amendment today and try to help the Slovenian farmer with at least one stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm joining the predecessor, too, and I support this amendment. It might even be better to move the calculation after a new one by the end of this year and prepare a new law thoroughly, because this law introduces some kind of intervention, a political measure that has no legal basis, no basis for calculation, but only because politics is afraid of what people will say, we are now going to intervene and say only 10% more than the old calculation, and for certain cultures we know or even decrease by 50%. In some areas it is mainly for the fields, it is said that there will be significantly less tide, those farmers who have most of the land will pay less. For those who will be 10% more, however, it is not fair because with some law that abnormally increases the cadastral income, I think without any reasonable basis, such as for forests or permanent plantations, where it is fourteen, fifteen times. I am afraid that, by the end of the year, the government will not be able to prepare the correct basis for the calculations, if these differences are already so large in individual areas. The forests are not at all an account of how KD increases eleven times, and if the Agricultural Land Fund is also going to pay KD for these 240 thousand hectares, it should send 40 million KDs and the concessions will get 14 million. It's probably the same for private forests. What's the point here? What the predecessor said before is the problem of scholarships, child allowances, social benefits, kindergarten payments, then the impact on income. I have calculated that the average farmer, who has, say, 10 hectares of land, now had EUR 4 thousand KD, will receive EUR 10 000 for 2013, and for 2014, when the total subsidy is included, now for 2013 alone 50%, and even 12 thousand 500. And a farmer with one average farm and a working salary, or a minimum pension, would have an old-fashioned surcharge of EUR 660 and a new EUR 2 000 300. So you should give a few pensions for your income. And it's the same for the woods. The yield in the forests is slightly higher at the sales price than calculated by KD. This is how I support this amendment, so that these 10% can have a significant impact on the calculation of various social benefits, child allowances and thus the rural areas are damaged or these rural children are in an unequal situation with those who have nothing. We know that some of our citizens don't even have a house built on their land, and that's the best way to do it. Because they have nothing, they get full social benefits, and they live the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this amendment, as it was also signed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. We do not oppose the introduction of new methodologies for the calculation of cadastral income. This needs to be done, but it seems to us that it is now all together, after we have extended this deadline, that this has come at once, and that is why we have tabled this amendment to keep the cadastral income at the 2012 level in 2013. As I have already said in the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, see what happens is that some students will lose scholarships, as well as some students, will be changes in the payment of kindergartens, etc. Therefore, it is not only the narrow content of the cadastral income, but also, of course, other negative effects for citizens and citizens, particularly in rural areas. Look, this is why my heart is sore that it seems like the government's intention is to drain the countryside. And that's not good. That's not good. And look, at the previous point, when we discussed the amendment of the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, which we prepared in Novi Slovenije, we talked so much that we need the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the government said we need a partner. Yeah. Then let's listen to him. And the Agriculture and Economy Chamber said the following, unfortunately the President disappeared from the balcony, I expected – the president of the Chamber – to be at this point too, because this may be even more real than the previous point. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is for the decision to introduce new cadastral income calculations. It's for a decision. Did anyone listen? Yeah, we are. We listened to the chamber. That's why we tabled these amendments. The Agricultural and Forestry Chamber of Slovenia said that the system of calculations is extremely complex. They already know why they said that. Maybe they don't know him. It would take more time for the methodology to communicate with them. The Chamber also said that the expert and other public could not examine all the details of the calculations. That's why we tabled these amendments. And I believe that the coalition will also have at least a reflection on whether or not they might just support it, and this would certainly give the law greater support. They are convinced that such an extensive and demanding project cannot be properly implemented in such a short period of time. That's what the chamber says. And we all said we needed a strong chamber, we need to listen to the chamber. Yeah, we're listening, so we tabled these amendments. In the Chamber, they are convinced that it is unacceptable to interfere in the system of cadastral income calculations in such a way as to examine in advance how this will affect the income base of individual farms, the burden on individual industries, the achievement of the income threshold for compulsory entry into the value added tax system and the mandatory management of accounting. I don't know, colleagues and colleagues, if any of the tenant vineyards know that by implementing this methodology the cadastral income of its vineyard on the surface of one hectare will be around EUR 5 000. Let's start talking about numbers and then see what this novel of the Cadastrian Income Act brings. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u206	Your Honor! Again, there is one project, such as the property inventory and the valuation of real estate, where the Geodetic Authority played a central role, which also made this project insufficient. The Cadastrian Income Act, which entered into force in 2011, moved the implementation to the middle of this year with a view to comprehensively preparing calculations and determining the cadastral income by region, according to the type of land use and the like. When the Geodetics Administration first presented the figures and when the first calculations were made, some found, in particular, vineyards and fruit growers, that they were also able to increase their cadastral income by 10 times and more, and no one could tell why. Is it possible to earn 10 times more in 2013 by making apples or grapes or wine on the hectare or has he paid less than 10 times by now? And then they saw that the truth was not here, not there, but they started fixing calculations. And when we recently got the last calculation, it's still completely unrealistic and illogical. Now we have been promised a new calculation of the cadastral income for each region at the end of August, with people not knowing about how much cadastral income they will pay and, as a result, today we are moving the expiration date or flat-rately raising the cadastral income for those who would raise 10%. I wonder why. There is no reason for those to raise the cadastral income by 10%. Who invented that 10%? Why raise it if we don't know how much people are going to pay because the relevant professional institutions or non-professional institutions such as GURS haven't prepared the case yet? There is no reason, respectable, if the country has not done its own work or is even on the way to do any harm to people to charge it, for now the proposal is on the table that those who would have raised their cadastral income may be raised by up to 10%, but not by those who did not. Why would he raise himself by 10%? What's the reason I'm asking the secretary of state here? Why don't you charge those up to the new calculations the old ones? This is the proposal and substance of this amendment that we are putting forward. And look also completely after my assessment of the flawed concept that does not take into account the reality of life in our country. In particular, I will stop in the wine industry, because I know this matter a little more because I am also a small winegrower and I have a lot of neighbors and acquaintances. Many, from tradition it comes, many vineyards are small, there are about half a hectare or less, many cannot market wine or grapes at prices that someone invented in the calculation of the cadastral income, and they process this more or less because of their obligations to those at which they inherited these vineyards due to some attachment and process this Slovenian landscape. If you raise the cadastral income above these levels, as it is now, that is to say 2 to 3 000 euros per hectare for the vineyard, these people will simply cut these vineyards because they will not pay this country because they cannot cover this crop or this cadastral income, let alone cover all the costs that this land process entails. So the result of one headless, I don't know, ambition after the state budget will have the effect that we will have an even more abandoned landscape or less processed, that we will have more wild growth and all the consequences that come from it. I miss the Minister of Agriculture here today because it's his business. I, with all due respect to the Secretary of State for Finance, but the cadastral income is based on a flat-rate calculation of how much income per hectare of a culture is. And that is now to be fixed flatly. This is like having a Gorenje factory that has to produce a thousand refrigerators, and of these thousands of refrigerators it has to pay a tax, whether or not these thousand refrigerators sell or not and at what price. There is absolutely no logic here and, in fact, there is one way to attack this Slovenian countryside again, especially the part that is struggling to survive. For those who serve well with agricultural production are likely to pay this KD more easily, but those who don't, who cannot do it now. I therefore propose that informational calculations be sent to people before serious enforcement and that these calculations be discussed before they become effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that we support these amendments in the Slovenian People's Party, but I can also add that if the amendments are not voted, we will still support the amendment of the law, because otherwise the consequences would be significantly greater. So much so that I can explain this part, and I think it's right that we're aware of that. Otherwise, as has already been said, in the next month, two, by the end of August, the promise on the Committee that these calculations will now be established on the basis of this methodology and data that are now being modified coming to the GURS. I think that then it will be absolutely necessary to look at these calculations carefully and to see whether this flat-rate decision is per hectare; it is also possible to have accounting for those who decide otherwise, whether it is real or not, in order to be able to determine the consequences of this taxation. In the area of agricultural taxation, something must be changed and these matters settled, but I think that those who first received the calculations and saw some 13 times, 14 times and 5 times, should also be so close to themselves to see whether there is something wrong with this, because in the end this economic situation would also be quite different if these flat-rate incomes in agricultural activities were really at this level, as the first calculations showed. In the Slovenian People's Party, as I have already said, we will be involved in identifying the consequences of these calculations, which will be known at the end of August, and I believe that in the coming month, two will have to cut into what kind of legal matter if we do not want these calculations to have a major impact on the situation in the countryside. But surely there are other threats that now come from the same ministry, which are linked to the taxation of agricultural land, grasslands, forests, barns, silos, significantly larger. At that point, now that this legal matter is still in public debate, cleverly today that we will not then face it again in a month, two with similar calculations as now, because they truly bury this rural area to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Even the secretary of state wanted a word. Here you go, mag. It's a crowbar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. So I would like to repeat the Government's position on this amendment. I already told him on the Finance Committee. The difference between the government proposed article and this article, proposed in the form of an amendment, is that the amendment proposes that if the new calculation of KD is higher, albeit for 1 cent, than that calculated in 2012 to take account of the old calculation. However, in the Government proposal of Article 9, it is proposed that old calculations be taken into account only if the new calculation is higher than the previous one by more than 10%. In this way, we want to introduce, in a gradual manner, a whole new calculation based on the new methodology and new calculations. We believe that after the clarification that we have witnessed since the publication of the data by the Geodetic Authority, I must say that it is not right that all opposition goes only to the Geodetic Authority, because it has not done these calculations itself, but that agricultural experts have also cooperated. We estimate that this new methodology is correct and appropriate. We are still talking about a flat-rate assessment of potential income. And this flat rate is based on a methodology based on the law. We worked together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agriculture and Forestry Chamber. There were several speeches, why 10%. It is precisely because of this gradualness and because of confidence in the new methodology as set out. In fact, the amendment itself creates confidence in this methodology. But only where, due to the new methodology, the cadastral income has been reduced. The amendment foresees the same as the government's basic proposal to take into account the reduced assessment of cadastral income. This means that if an individual farmer reaches or has less chance of reaching a cadastral income, this shall be taken into account if he reaches higher income, but this shall not be taken into account. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. More than once there was talk about paying for the cadastral income. Catastrophe income is not paid. Catastrophe income is the basis, is the calculation of potential market income from a particular agricultural land or forest land and is considered as part of a tax base or as a tax basis for calculating income or as a basis for other calculations, for example in the social field. And that basis should then be added to all the other circumstances that an individual debtor is involved in, and it may not be possible for someone to pay anything because of the reliefs he has. However, because of other incomes, someone will be able to pay more than he has paid so far, not because of the cadastral income. As a result, I find it unfair to link the level of cadastral income with tax obligations. Yeah, it can have a certain effect indirectly, but only everyone knows for themselves what that influence is. The integration of cadastral income with agricultural subsidies is also not correct because it is income that is not included in the calculation of cadastral income. This was before the time of the decision of this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see one hand. Mr. Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Madam Secretary of State! I don't think a law like that should go into procedure. Why? Evidence, of course, is a proposal that's been made. See what the 4th page says, the other consequences of the adoption of the law: administrative and other consequences. The law has no additional administrative implications. The environmental impact assessment, including the economic and security aspects, has no impact. The economy's judgment, no consequences, no consequences. Is that true? What are we actually doing? Why are people being paid in this country? How can there be no economic consequences if we determine the amount of cadastral income that is the basis for the tax assessment? Do I live in a real country? There are no consequences. How can there be no consequences? But if we are talking about this, and Mr Visjak is talking about the essential consequences, and we all know that it has consequences. I really have to say that the best thing to do is to rewrite the law from Austrian legislation, where it has simple solutions. And I do not agree that we are smarter than the Austrians, because the Austrians are economically three times more successful in all areas. They are one of the most successful countries in the European Union and it would be good to copy and not be smart. Did anyone have to earn to make a bill? The stupidity we've been doing for two years we've been preparing and harassing GURS to collect some new data every year. It's not a GURS problem. The problem is here in law. We must adopt a simple law, as Austria has in order to determine the single value of the agricultural economy, which will be the basis for cadastral income, the market value of the agricultural economy, for subsidies, for the allocation of spatial planning loans. That's what the Austrians have in a simple marriage. Therefore, they have less than three times less red tape and are therefore economically successful. Look, in this frenzy of madness in Slovenia, you have to help yourself to become as calm as you can see that I'm a little upset. And I'm asking, why is every time a government demonstrates power over citizens? Luigi Zingales, "power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely." And when every position gets power, then let's give after this poor citizen all kinds of taxes. Shouldn't we go the other way? We're like pharaoh caterpillars. First we turn in one direction, then we run into a wall, then we turn in the other direction. Well, look, I think we're gonna have to start doing something different. Otherwise, today we have no other option than to accept this, because it is a necessary procedure again, everything is necessary, of course the world will probably be supported, today we accept this or tomorrow we will probably vote, and then we will quickly start to change the law and make it in three months according to the Austrian model, and we will do something really good. If you're reading this, I'm studying. On Tuesday night, I met two fellow Members here in front of parliament, they went to Parliament and I from Parliament, and one asked me, "What are you doing?" I said, "I'm studying to know what I'm saying at the session." And look who reads it, and lays it on his left, on his right, and on all things, I know not. Behold, there is no consequence. [[...]] How is there no impact on the economy? What about farmers, not masters of their land? Whether it is necessary to dissipate them in such a way that we prescribe high cadastral income, then give them executions, and someone will collect them cheap. Let's be serious, please! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. I'm asking again if anyone else wants to discuss it. If not, we're closing the debate. This amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt this agenda item and at the same time the session, which we will continue in half an hour, is said to be ten minutes after five o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u214	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please first check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I think you've done a successful check. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on takeovers, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 20 June 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1. Mr Pogačnik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u215	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment. The amendment has put forward with the aim of avoiding violations and inequalities in this law. The amendment follows in particular the comments and proposals made by the regulator, the Securities Market Agency. I expect Members and Members to follow our proposal, because otherwise there will be unequal treatment, the law will apply to everyone other than the country. I can also say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that if this amendment is voted, then the Group of Members will also support the bill itself, otherwise I will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr Pogačnik explained the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I find that there are no other people who have been notified for reasons of vote. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 40. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informed that the Law-Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Pogačnik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this law. We will not support it because the law is not in line with the market regulator, the Securities Trading Agency. Of course, there is also a reservation to this adoption by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Once again, we have come to realize that the current government is ignoring the ATVP, thus ignoring the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The law will apply to someone, not to the state. The main purpose of the Takeover Act is to protect small shareholders. There will be an act here, and the professional public will also explain that the law is contrary to the European legal order. I think that we are moving away from one step of serious privatisation again. It'll be a vote tomorrow. In this way, I think that all serious investors have seen the role of this country and I personally do not exclude this possibility, that the state will decide to abolish the ATVP regulator in the coming months and that this seat will be moved to Gregorčičeva or to Vienna. I think that's extremely unserious of what you're doing. Do not follow the regulator, do not follow the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, play small shareholders, especially for one reason, you will take advantage of the assembly space between June and September and the main issue will be to replace supervisors in companies where voting rights have been revoked. However, you will press the ATVP to return these voting rights due to public interest. Voting rights were denied to state companies solely because the legislation was broken, not because of another. And now you're going to tell the Members here that we're not governed by laws, we're not, we're not. That's not good. Such a path is not a good one, it will not be a message that will be given and, in the interests of national interest, we now have a public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you. We're moving on to an explanation of vote. I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Can one who wants to explain his voice raise his hand to make it easier? Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you very much, President. Of all the seven, I'm the only one who knows why I pressed this button between the ladies. So, Your Honor, the takeover law was passed in the mandate when I was the Minister of the Economy. At that time, we had a great dilemma, for by the takeover law, the state was excluded from the takeover legislation. The state with its parastatal funds, its companies were not bound by the takeover legislation, and at that time we adopted the takeover law, which was in 2006, with which we fully aligned Slovenian takeover legislation with the European acquis and set the country with the same standards as all shareholders. What is, Your Honor, the essence of takeover legislation? Why do we need a takeover law? In order to protect a small shareholder in order to protect the one who has roughly the same right against other large shareholders, to inform him that he has an offer under the same conditions as the others and so on. That's the essence of the takeover legislation. By this law, you are exempting the State from the law of acquisition from undefined public interest. What does that mean? This means that a closed circle of state-owned companies and funds will again be given to do something hidden from the public's eyes and any small shareholder. It's an important step back. The reason is obvious: because there is a hurry to replace the supervisory councils, so to speak, to frame these companies and probably to prey on them. And now we've heard you, Mr. President, when you called the theft and robbery of the century, what you're about to confirm tomorrow at an extraordinary session. And I'm not far from concluding that what you're doing today is stealing and robbing small shareholders, those who bought this property with their money. So imagine what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you. However, I would like to point out that, at the moment we explain our voice, it is not possible to replicate or respond to what is included in the explanation of vote. But given that we're done here, I'm going to end this opportunity to explain my voice. We're moving to the vote. Excuse me? Are you more interested or just Mr. Tanko? Mr. Tanko, you have the opportunity to explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. This is another situation where we seem to be at least doubting that it is unconstitutional. One such unconstitutional move of this government was to sign an agreement with trade unions, where for the same things it separated from those who are members of trade unions and those who are not members of trade unions. Let's say we're on vacation and things like that. What we are doing today with this change of the takeover law, we are reintroducing nationalisation in some way. When the state and the government abuse theirs on its behalf, I can say, a hidden monopoly position and in some way decommission and prevent small shareholders, small owners of the same companies. I do not think it is right that partners in some equity portfolio find themselves in such distinctly different situations when one is granted exclusively different rights than some others. And if you imagined that these amendments to the legislation you are bringing into the National Assembly would be done with those last owners, concentrating on the property and then channeling it through a variety of silent societies and friendly ties, then I must say that we can be concerned about the situation in this country. If this is how you prepare legislation, then it will be difficult to say that we respect the constitutional principle of equality, equal rights, equal standing, equal opportunities, because this is going in the opposite direction. It seems to be in the exclusive position of someone and an extremely subordinate position of another in the same portfolio.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Meh wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, it is right to protect small shareholders, and it is right to protect state property, our common property. And today it is necessary to say that this law will allow the owner to vote and vote as it is in the interests of the majority property. I can tell you what it was like in Velenje Coal. There minority shareholders wanted to prevent what was good for the majority, for progress, for work, for development. That is why I think it is right to protect and that the samples that may have been made by some of the previous governments, not to say exactly one of the last governments before the current government, in the frame of reference, had this practice and that it is not intended and that this is not what would have made this takeover legislation. So I'm absolutely protesting this. That's not true. But it is true that individuals, including groups, can take advantage of every opportunity to try to say everything that has been wrong in the past. But this is not what citizens and citizens expect from us. They expect us to decide for the benefit of all of us together. And in this case it is those who represent the majority of the property or property.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you. Now I propose that because there are several deadlines raised and there will obviously be more people notified to explain your vote to apply for explanations of vote. Mag. Marko Pogačnik is the first to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u225	President, thank you for your word. Looks like someone's trying to set up a case somewhere else, and it's imperative that the country gets those votes. It is important to ask why the state or persons associated with it have lost their voting rights. Only because the State or associated persons has infringed the legislation in force. The regulator only took the voting rights for this reason. And this is another proof that state property is poorly and irresponsiblely managed. Instead of asking who is responsible for the loss of voting rights, because every purchase of shares is signed — and these people are responsible for the loss of voting rights. Now we're going to get past this, because we're going to start talking about public interest again, and I'm joining my colleague Visiank, which is the theft and treason of small shareholders. You will consciously pass through all the laws, only to get – the country and the connected persons – back the voting rights. But you probably only have two companies, the Ljubljana Airport and the Triglav Insurance Company.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath is next to explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to talk about what was wrong with taking over in the past. I will talk about what was wrong today and what will be wrong in the future. And today it was wrong for the government to take an ignorant approach to the debate in the National Assembly on the new takeover law. She only took five minutes. And when I asked the government because I wanted to know the effects of this law on the decision on the construction of Terminal 2 at the Ljubljana Airport, the government merely made a non-verbal announcement that it did not have time, otherwise I would have gladly answered, but that it did not have time. On the other hand, the government says it needs time. He doesn't have time for this today. And that is why no one will convince me to vote differently than I have decided against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! This story reminds us a bit of a joke, unfortunately still true in Slovenia, an address from a few years ago, when newspapers reported that it may have been, it was a minister of the then LDS government, it really broke the law, but it did it for the best of purposes. This, I must say, is a very interesting concept of constitutional order and modern law. We were not members of the European Union at the time, but we are today. It must therefore be made very clear that voting rights have been lost solely by those who have violated the law, regardless of which title or at which time they were located. And the way you have now dealt with these matters is, in my firm belief, also in clear contradiction with the principles of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that before the law we are all the same. And now you are exempting yourself from the law. And that, I'm sorry, does not lead to Europe, it leads somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thanks, mag. Branku Grims. There's still a mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will abstain, not vote for, not against. I wasn't going to call, but I still feel like I need to tell you my point. One of the thoughts is that he does not do the most harm to the one who does the wrong, but does not say the most harm to the one who sees it. I admire that in such an easy way you can decide whether to or against this solution. This is because, in all my efforts to find out what the main problem is, let's say the current opposition opposes the position, I have not been able to find out, and that these findings would probably be reversed if the parties switched. I mean, it's hard for a normal citizen to make a real impression on what we're actually going to do. The results of our work are catastrophic: a bankrupt country. And in such games, where I think it should be different, that responsible parliamentarians should agree and adopt such a technical law with an absolute majority, but I am having a hard time cooperating, so I will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you, too. I take it Mr. Breznik still has an interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u233	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'll just add. It's a simple matter. The one who decides to do so is to break the Constitution, two constitutional provisions, the first is to protect those weakest members in this chain, and the second is to respect private property, which is the foundation of a democratically regulated parliamentary society. These are the two principles that you're going to violate all those that you're about to press for. And continuing, as we are hearing today, the so-called continuation of so-called state capitalism, speaking, doing some advertising, that we must protect our social property. You can just tell citizens and citizens, I think those who have been accompanying this meeting all week, that I have mentioned several times what people and citizens have than this private or social property that we have left, to tell us how much cheaper fuel they have, how much quality and comforter [[Incomprehensible]] services or other benefits. This is a question for every weakest citizen. They have nothing to do with bad corporate governance, and every year we have to recapitalise different companies with hundreds of millions. And all these recapitalisations citizens feel in their daily standard, in increasing taxes. This is this common story, this is this great finale of so-called national interest, which you will finally perform and under the cover of the 10-year participation of citizens in this social property, you will now sell it cheap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u234	Thank you, too. We still have an interest in explaining our voice. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The essence of the takeover legislation is transparency and the actual rules for taking over are to be put forward. On the other hand, it is also essential that all entities are in an equal position. Any change in these rules back or forth means putting someone in a different position. To ensure that the acquisitions are carried out in a transparent manner, we have, according to international and European standards, the Securities Markets Agency, which may, in the event of a breach of certain legislation, in particular when someone is buying at an insufficiently high price when he violates the rules, that he does not make a higher offer than the previous one, actually takes the voting rights. If these rights have been taken from the State or state undertakings in certain cases, this is perfectly correct, this is transparent, as all must act in accordance with the same rules. Returning by the law itself to some to say, the possibility or that someone again has management rights on the basis that it is greater, that it is stronger and that in this way it will be possible to bring out the weaker, these are small shareholders. There's a lot of small shareholders. In this case, the state is only one, stronger, and will operate at the expense of small shareholders. This is irregular, unconstitutional and leads to a completely wrong course of economic development. Such economic development does not lead us into the openness of the economy, does not lead us into attracting capital, but actually leads us to this [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u236	Thank you. I think we can go to the vote. We're voting on the law. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 31. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm inviting you to sign up. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the vote will be explained by mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u237	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Initially, it should be pointed out that we had this law in Parliament two months ago on the table. And it should be stressed that in the SDS, all Members and Members of the SDS, we have supported this act on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies, because we are aware of the situation and that for those companies that can be helped in this way, this is welcome. However, we will absolutely oppose today's amendment of the law, which allows the state to make guarantees without any guarantees. On the other hand, the law brings about an unequal relationship between creditors, as the state has invented here, if we provide a guarantee without guarantee, the state will have claims and a priority right in the event of bankruptcy. That's not how it works. There's been another violation of the law. Once again, it's about being a country over everyone. It should be pointed out that such a proposal, to supplement this law, that the State will give guarantees without guarantee, that these are irrational matters and that this will have a negative impact on taxpayers and also on the budget. It should be pointed out that such amendments to the law are contrary to the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, and the professional public. All – except for the coalition. What's the point? Probably the purpose of this law is to write more in the interest of saving owners closer to this government coalition. It should be pointed out that the country has probably lost a lot of money by now because they invested in companies that were not promising. They were investing with other purposes. It is particularly worrying that in this assessment of the situation and the reasons why the Government writes: "State aid is therefore intended for companies that are not capable of self-sustaining on the market." They are not able to survive on the market, but the country will help them. It's the same as if the dead were lying in a hospital, and they'd be left on their beds, and outside they'd be waiting for patients who could still be helped. That's not how it works. These are the harmful laws you accept. You're not going to save the economy with this. You said a lot of times when you were in the opposition, and the state has to help. Consider the case of America and Germany. America helped banks, but within six months, the country received all the funds back with interest. This marriage is bad. This law is not rational. This law places all creditors in an unequal position, so we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But we supported the roof law. That's what we'd like to do again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u238	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak will explain her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. As we have already announced in the client's position, we will not support this law in Novi Slovenije, because it is contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Chamber of Commerce and also the opinion of experts. Of course, we're in favour of helping prospective companies. However, if we help companies that have nothing more to give as collateral or insurance, then we believe that these companies have come so far as to make such a solution probably no longer meaningful. That is why we will not support this law in New Slovenia. Here I would remind again those who spoke at the previous point of public interest that I am sure that it is not in the public interest to give money for guarantees, that is, money we will never get back.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. There is still an interest in explaining the vote on your own behalf and I invite you to apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution states that we have a social market economy, not a state-owned derigist economy that keeps patients alive, but that these patients can no longer move. In fact, in this case, businesses cannot perform on markets, they cannot produce, they cannot actually do nothing because they have no programmes because they do not have a market because they do not have people to raise these economic operators. And the state will give these companies tax money. Ladies and gentlemen, this is irresponsible! The State should spend taxpayers' money where the actual effects on the state and citizens will be, not where these effects will not be and where this money will be lost. Lost as it has been lost many times in the past, but we have not actually learned anything from it. The market economy means that the company must survive on the market. However, national conduct means that the state and the citizens and citizens will also have their money to take responsibility for the operations of these companies. This also means the responsibility of all those who have nothing in these decisions, and therefore will pay taxes, higher value added tax, higher property tax and, of course, other taxes that go here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is irresponsible and does not comply with market principles.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u242	Thank you. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law we adopt is, in fact, a fundamental macroeconomic law. It means that the state is establishing a relationship of itself to the economy. And look, I think the path we've been doing for 20 years is wrong. That's what we've done so far. We have chosen and supported certain selected companies. We didn't get any good results. The country should go the other way. I have experienced this on my own company, and I understand the horror of the companies in this situation, that they need foreign assistance, but the way we do it, I don't think it's right. We should go the other way. You know, that's two concepts. You don't give help to one, now to the other, now to the third, who are closer to a political option, no government can avoid it. Not this one, not the last one, not the previous one, and so on. We should be on the road to lowering the tax burden on all companies. Here is the key to the success of some neighbouring countries. We were also at the Slovak Embassy last time, and the Ambassador explained it. And these are two macroeconomic concepts. This government and coalition have decided on this, which I think is wrong. That's why I'm gonna hold on. Not because I'd support the left or the right because I'm right here in the middle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u244	Thank you, too. I invite you to apply for a debate or explanation of vote. Mr Matevž Frangež will be the first to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u245	Respected and respected! I think it is essential that, when we understand the situation in which Slovenia is, and understand the situation in which our economy is located, we make every effort to save every job. In many environments, at least in the short term, it will not be possible to replace lost jobs in our country. If we understand how and why the crisis has hit Slovenia as deeply as it has, and if we understand that the overindebtedness of companies is the key reason for this, then it is also clear that there is no need for structural reasons for the company to be in a certain situation. Today, I could list concrete companies that have competitive products, dedicated workers, as well as markets, supplier contracts to the most prominent players on the world market, but are, for certain reasons, also because of the fact that irresponsible owners have exhausted them through multiple channels: as owners, as key buyers and as suppliers. Then we must understand that there is nothing wrong with this society, but that it is necessary, through a network of measures, to amend the insolvency legislation that this National Assembly has already carried out, as well as other levers, to ensure that these companies come to the responsible owners and dedicated managers. In doing so, the State must help them because the damage to every job that we will lose if we continue to ignore such cases, so my vote is in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thank you. The following will explain Mr Marijan Pojbič's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u247	Dear Mr. President! The government has great opportunities. When the government took over the leadership of this country, it spoke of new jobs. She talked about how easy it was and what she would do to open up jobs, 50, 60, and I don't know how many thousands of new jobs. Until now, absolutely nothing has happened. It is extremely difficult for me to listen to these debates of government Members who speak one, who have promised another, and they are working completely third. And to say that the government or the state would save companies that cannot survive on the market is absurd to all absurdities. Neither the European nor the Balkan nor the global economy are aware of this. This is the greatest sorrow I've ever heard in my life. And believe me, I am the most unhappy person to sit in a parliament where the coalition is trying to convince us Members that there is a need to save businesses that cannot survive on the market. Believe me, this House does not have a Member and a Member, who does not have every job in the world, a holy place, but on the one hand we know exactly what a policy can do to keep new jobs and what the economy has to do. And God forbid that I live in such a country, in such a parliament where those who create who are capable of creating give to those who are incapable of doing so. And what needs to be regulated by the market [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u248	Thank you. The next one will explain Mr Jože Tanko's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you very much. In the coalition program, you wrote that you would help those who deserve to survive. What we are following now in the media is quite the opposite. The main task of some in this government, especially the minister and his right hands, is to look for companies whose survival is impossible. And that the paradox is even worse, there are huge amounts of money being invested in these companies just before bankruptcy, which will go to a quickly unknown place and then all of this will be covered in bankruptcy. This is a known technology and this law provides essentially a system-wide money launderer. We are in a situation where this coalition proposes solutions for companies for which there is no chance of survival. This does not keep jobs, nor does it keep working conditions, thus providing only money for the most expensive individual funeral that will take place. Let's just say, probably Cimos, this is probably all the other cases. There is no long-term prospect of survival there, because things are looted, poorly loaded, poorly run. And what is happening now is actually exactly the same or the same. I ask myself, who will answer and take responsibility for the enormous stakes, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] These companies are almost bankrupt when this actually happens. [[...]] It is likely that some name and surname will have to be mentioned and called to account.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u250	Thank you. The following will explain Mr Jožef Kavtičnik's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you very much. When I listen to Members of the biggest opposition party today, I wonder, somehow, where these ideas went and all these solutions when they had a government, why they didn't keep a job at the time. Companies went bankrupt, companies went bankrupt. We want to preserve some jobs today and encourage those economies that have healthy cores. These are the economies that are export-oriented. These are the economies that have over-indebted themselves because they have taken loans for development, and today they need to be helped to maintain and maybe even set up other products and open jobs. And you're scaring again today, and you're some fortune teller about what's gonna happen, etc. You had it all in your hands, you could have done it, but you didn't. It is also sad that you did not even know how to keep the coalition, so today we who need to fix something have done something, and especially what you failed to do, to give something positive to this Slovenian space between workers and workers and citizens and citizens. Not to scare them, but to give them a chance to save themselves. I'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you, too. The next one to explain his voice is Mr Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u253	I alone and also in the Slovenian People's Party of this law simply cannot support it. We all know why Slovenia is in this situation today. It is due to the irresponsible work of directors, owners, most of the directors who would like to become owners, and banks who have given uncompromisingly and with great political support to these companies, but, in the meantime, not those who would fight largely for jobs, but for personal property in these companies, these companies have largely put to their knees. Today, respected colleagues, colleagues, we accept that someone on behalf of the State, without having to have insurance, will be able to provide state aid. And when state aid is shared, it would be very good to know who it can be, what it will be intended for, and what the results will be. In Slovenia, too many times we fear bankruptcy if the company has a healthy core. Believe that many times it would be much better and easier to save if some agony were completed as soon as possible, but not to continue and fill this hole, and those healthy sails should begin their work, and to a large extent those who have become owners in that time too. I am not saying that in all companies this is the case, but we regret that from day to day we follow these images and also the stories that are the same from business to business. In this case, money will go, unfortunately, in my opinion, not that jobs will be provided, but that creditors will be covered before bankruptcy. And we will do this from now on, without anyone who, on behalf of the State, would have to obtain any insurance in advance, in some way we are giving these people a ride to do this. In the Slovenian People's Party such a way of granting state aid, we simply cannot support and we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you. The next one will explain the voice of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u255	Your Honor! The task of the country when we talk about economic policy is in particular to ensure a favourable business environment for all: transparent rules and for all equal. This is a key role of the country, i.e. a good tax policy, without bureaucratic obstacles to obtaining land permits, access to infrastructure, knowledge to all to develop competition, a competition to win better and to develop better. But we have another approach, that's to help the chosen ones. And the chosen ones are helped in this way to choke the others. Why? That's because the money you're going to give me, you have to pick up somewhere. And that's why you raise taxes to collect the money and direct it to the chosen ones. Your Honor, the biggest abuse of this law is what I've heard is that it's designed to preserve jobs. It is intended to preserve the privileged capital owners who have become over-indebted, have become in difficulty and must now be assisted in this way. So in such a way as to give them a guarantee without insurance. We have had a law so far, and we have legislation to help businesses in difficulty. It already exists if someone is in trouble and makes a program of how to get out of these problems to create a healthy core. This legislation has existed in Slovenia for decades. It's nothing new. You are now introducing one improbability, that it is possible to obtain a guarantee without insurance and that this is then a priority claim. Listen, this is, I can't say otherwise, consciously favouring individual companies from a list and a list. It is not surprising that two ministers, Mr Stepišnik and Secretary of State Mišič walk as two Miklavža walk through Slovenia from business to business, mainly in over-indebted companies, and promise assistance. What kind of help? The one that's ahead of us today. I have no problem helping businesses, but I have a big problem getting rid of the fallen tycoons that are right out of this coalition orbit or political environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you. In the midst of this, you have been more interested in explaining your vote, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law for four main reasons. The first main reason is that the State makes it possible by this law to grant state aid without any insurance, to those undertakings which have been proven to be unable to survive on the market alone without aid. The second reason why I will vote against this is that, in the event of bankruptcy, the State will be paid first, but not by those economic operators, those companies, those suppliers who have been waiting for a long time to pay their dues. We are putting a small economy in a significantly worse situation in this case. For both reasons, the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out in its broad opinion. None of this has been taken into account and none of this has been rectified. I will also vote against this because whoever receives state aid is decided by the so-called expert commission on the basis of a restructuring programme. We can see that this is mainly a commission made up of experts from the Ministry. And I will vote, not least for that, but especially because it is a long way from saving jobs. As has been pointed out many times before, we save poor governance, poor governance and, of course, irresponsible owners, who have often obtained these shares in companies that are now being saved by the government in our tax return account.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you. I'll give you the word "magic" next. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u259	I will not support the proposed amendment of the law myself, but it is interesting that the coalition Members in one interesting way led this debate. We're not talking in here right now about the law, we're talking about supplementing this law today. We have fully supported the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in the SDS, but today we are talking about supplements, guarantees without guarantees. And not to deceive that supplements and guarantees without guarantees keep jobs. If so, this supplement would not be opposed by the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the entire professional public. It's irrational what you're doing in here. And the country had already lost too much money when the guarantees were given. And now you're going to give guarantees without guarantees. Other countries got that money back. And this will probably be the rescue of certain friendly owners. That's the other thing we can't imagine. And also the Legal and Legislative Service opposed it. Pekko was mentioned many times. I'm worried it's gonna be like this. Under the rule of the LDS, Pekko was given 10 billion tolars at the time, and Mr Lovša was the chairman of the administration when we know where he is today. The only benefit of the 10 billion invested in Pekko was then the Nina Morič model when she was filmed in California. And that's exactly what this is going to be about right now. What kind of companies are you gonna have in here now to support them without a guarantee? This is contrary to European legislation and, above all, to taxpayers. Save those companies that can be saved, not those that can no longer be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u260	Thank you, too. Mr. Branko Ficko will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The fact is that our companies are over-indebted and have negative capital. Why this has happened in the past, of course, you know those who have prepared the case since 2005, these are the fires which Stepišnik is walking on today, and the Secretary of State. Thank God you're still dating! Our aim should be to preserve the healthy cores of trade marks and, above all, to preserve jobs. Since existing legislation prevents effective implementation, companies with their own resources fail to obtain insurance. This amendment of the law allows this to happen, so I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Franz Beznik will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. I would somehow say that I have to vote against it mainly because the very purpose of this law at this last stage has somehow missed that basis. This purpose, which you have, we have recently adopted so-called insolvency legislation, where bankruptcy occurs according to some Western standards, where healthy cores are maintained, where those who have treated their assets in any way poorly and where creditors within the Credit Committee have a greater opportunity to pay and continue some serious production. So this marriage is completely depraved and has come into a completely different phase, into what you were talking about today. You've all said that it's necessary to protect our state property, and at this very moment, you're spreading it among your comrades through some non-transparent methodology. This is against the principles of the European Union – one of the main principles of free competition in the European Union is the favouring of certain companies with poor corporate governance, which could not in fact optimise costs and could not survive this crisis. You punish those who have survived this crisis, who have had good programs that have saved for bad times, and you punish them most. That seems pointless to me. You can't save a company like that. The job that brings one unit into the social product is saved by 1.2 or 1.5 units. This is not a market economy, this is part of a planned economy, and this planning economy, we have experience where it has led us. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it. This is not the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u264	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I will also vote against the law on the basis of the warnings that have been given before, and also the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service. You remove the requirement for adequate credit insurance, which is incompatible with the nature of the claims made under the State aid received. We've already had bailouts without guarantees in banks, and we know what's going on now. You obviously want to move this into the economy. There were bad loans there too, so today we have to save the banks and always throw new money into the bottomless bag. Second thing. This is a drawback, so these companies should also repay these funds, but obviously no one is expecting it anymore, no one is dealing with it and does not believe that these funds will ever be recovered. This is what we know right now, and you're passing the law to give help in this way, which the state will never see again, or budget. The law states that it is appropriate for companies in difficulty to have a survival perspective to be granted state aid. We could say, good morning, if we really didn't learn anything from all the unsuspecting donations of money to Elan, where we even had to return, we were punished for it, 50 million in Adrio, New Credit Bank, Pekko was given 6 million by the Pahor government, then one year later we wanted to sell it for a million 200, you convinced us colleagues here on the right how good and great it was, then you were a little disappointed because the sale failed. But no one wonders who is to blame, what administrations are to do, when the overseers finally give up, and by that time, they were joyfully receiving meetings, controlling — and apparently very badly controlled. We'll put $5 million in Sveo. Where will it go? In the end, it's probably on one lawyer account or someone who's gonna be a bankruptcy manager. Abbreviations only [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you. Mrs. Renata Brunskole will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to call, but I'm guessing it's okay. This is about what a great deal of misdirection some people have. If last year we supported the proposal of Positive Slovenia in connection with solving the healthy core of Primorje, people who are unemployed today and who have been employed in Primorje would be grateful to colleagues from the current opposition to resolve the issue. But that was not the case. Today, people from Cimos, Pek, Svee and so on listen to us and want us to help them and save them. When the company is in trouble, there is nothing left to put into insurance, so we propose a change of law. In doing so, however, the state has a formed commission that will closely monitor why someone receives state aid. For this reason, we agree that there is no need for additional insurance at a given time, and the country will be the one who will be long-term if the company that receives State aid retains a healthy core, retains jobs, and it is not right for anyone to say that jobs will not be maintained, but that we support the tycoons. It is wrong to say otherwise and that people do not hear the truth. I'll support the bill. Let us try to resolve what to get rid of, yes, but I am sorry that some, when they had time to do so, did not do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u268	Thank you. I note that there are several interested in explaining the vote, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Mrs. Alexandera Osterman will be the first to explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u269	I will support the law myself, because we know that state aid is intended for companies with a survival perspective, jobs are being maintained, because we know that, with the collapse of these companies, both small and large, we lose jobs, and this country feels strongly about increasing social transfers. It is pointless to support the law if we do not allow these companies to secure their loans in a quality manner, because we know that every good master, good company, is just trying to save his business. We have exceptions, but when the economic operator is trying to save his business, he is protecting both movable and immovable property, so in this case I support that the state is helping good companies that have the prospect of survival to keep jobs, and it is also right that the aid comes from the country, since this keeps jobs and makes it possible to survive the healthy cores of the economy. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u270	Thank you, too. Mag. Branko Grims will be next to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u271	Thank you. We should be strengthening the economy. The economy would only be strengthened by allowing faster development for those who are actually able to survive on the market. No successful entrepreneur can get a loan without a guarantee. This is exactly what we're talking about, non-guarantee loans. If you want to be correct then you should at least ask the owners to provide a guarantee with private property. This is where you want to "pave" money without any guarantee. It's pure socialism. You know, similar statements about job conservation, in one similar case in this House, we listened, they were euphoric to the end, it was the Maribor TAM. That was a lot of money. How many of these did the employees and their families get? Nothing, zero, zero. They stayed on the road and in poverty. And there are a lot of them there today. But that's why the whole mountain of financial intermediaries, some also outside Slovenia, has been greased with that money, where in the Balkans and others. And that's really what this is about. You want to share money without guarantees, without guarantees. There is a law on other aid. And once again, anyone who is successful who is capable of survival has to make a guarantee. In this case, it is only that someone obviously likes to play Santa Claus and what they once said in Goranj is likely to get something, but who is a successful entrepreneur who can open new jobs, hire people, give prosperity to them and their families, and can never get money because it is being used irrationally in a socialist way. Socialism, however, means equality in poverty — for those who have not experienced it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u272	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll support this marriage myself. But I'm very amusing because apparently some people didn't live in socialism. I think we all lived in socialism here in this hall. Whatever we want, that's right. And now we are completely capitalist in saving these companies. That's not true, it's not a guarantee. Here, the state gives back funds, these are the funds that are then returned in case the project is not working. And that's the point. Besides, I don't know what's so much fun if the state of Slovenia tries to save its businesses and employees in this way, in the same way as they do in the West. The whole of Western Europe found that its original solution was completely wrong, and then Mrs Merkel began to solve things in her own way and started helping to rescue her businesses and turned her thinking around in Europe. I think it would be time for even the SDS to slowly turn a little bit of thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u275	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I have added to this proposal to give state aid to companies absolutely cannot support it. But I do have a question for the proposaler or the coalition MPs. How many bad experiences in Slovenia will we have to have to learn from this? What does it mean to give money to someone without a guarantee and without a guarantee? A typical, concrete, very transparent, very clear case is the Slovenian banks that are now actually on their knees asking for a new recapitalisation, except for the largest two Slovenian banks, at the level of a bad billion. What if you weren't there? Banks would go bankrupt. And that's the path you take in the field of economics. I would not have any problem and would also support this law, Members of Parliament, which you are proposing to give today State taxpayer money without guarantee and without insurance, Members, give your guarantee that this will indeed be returned, then I will support this law too. Take responsibility for how these funds will be returned to the country. It's the easiest thing to discuss, vehemently. Give me a guarantee, and then I'll believe that money will really be returned.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u276	Thank you. Mag. Matthew Tonin will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u277	I will vote against this novel. All those who will vote in favour, I ask you and raise your hand, who would lend your own money without cover. I can't see a hand. When deciding on your money is one thing, when deciding on the money of all taxpayers, decisions are obviously different. What are the results of this kind of work, we see in banks where loans were made without coverage, there was a billion-dollar hole, of course we're paying, and we're all going to cover this debt. And if you add even more loose criteria to this law, then you really get to help some with public money, to save their businesses or not. If they don't save them, it'll be a loss of everyone, it'll be socialised, but if there's a gain, it'll be privatised. That's the way it is. Your expression or response, how many are there who would be willing to give credit and credit without coverage, tells everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u278	Thank you. Even Mr Jerko Čehovin will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u279	There is no need to stress that I will support the law. But it saddens me to see that some have not read the law at all. But they're just talking about some agenda that they got after this revelation of the visions of this morning's debate. That's where we're different, this coalition from the previous one. That where it is possible for a company to save, where it is possible to peel healthy cores and support them, we will support them. And that's our approach. And not least, if I'm a little mean, when we've had a lot of readings, I'm going to support the law, because I see it's good if SDS doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you. I take it we can go to the vote. Not yet, because it's still an interest. I invite you to sign up for an explanation of your vote. Mrs Aleksandra Osterman has already had the opportunity to explain her voice. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u281	Thank you so much for the president's words. I'll support this marriage, and I'll try, but for a really short time, I'll explain why. One key difference is between the government of Janez Janša and the government of Alenka Bratušek. The former government left the companies to fail. This government has committed itself to trying to keep jobs. I believe a lot of people are wondering if that's true or if it's really such a very important thing, and you blink your hand, you move on. Yes, it's an important matter, dear colleagues and colleagues. I come from a region that is experiencing over-average unemployment. Can you imagine what 180 new unemployed people in a region like this mean? A new socio-economic bomb. And because I have this power, I won't let that happen, so I'm going to support this marriage. Since this law saves businesses, yes, and thus prevents, as I said, a new economic and social disaster in the Sava region, specifically in the municipality of Zagorje. I will support the law, but please don't popularize or that you're not in such important laws that have such sensitive themes and are behind people. And I'll tell you one more thing when you say where the bailiff is. Yeah, it's a guarantee. In the case of Svea, he's a guarantor. The Minister made it very clear that we will not help a company that has a healthy core until the owners withdraw because they were not prepared to help, their ownership shares. They have done so, and this is a guarantee that the state is involved in helping a company that, as I say once again, has a healthy core that preserves jobs. He's not saving the owners. That's the point, so I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr Alenka Pavlič will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u283	Look at the fragment, and I'll support this marriage. I'm not the only one. News of the Slovenian Press Agency, 28 November 2012: The Koper Logistics Group Intereuropa sold a Russian investment that is largely responsible for its financial problems. The price is EUR 45 million, messages from Inter-European. The purchase of land, the construction of the Czech Republic, was already worth 140 million Euros. That's why Intereuropa lost 95 million euros, and Janša's friend was responsible from the time of Andrej Lošin's arms trade. Lovčina placed the first Janšev government at the top of Intereurope, although she had no experience. He also had a picture of Janša on the wall at the time he was running the company. Now, please, judge who Santa is, who is Miklavž, who are the parks, or "nš khubuk", if you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u284	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? I guess I can. We're voting on the law. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I invite you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Mag. Matthew Tonin will explain the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u285	If anything, today's debate has certainly shown that there are problems in agriculture and that we all have a common goal of solving these problems. Everyone tried to solve certain problems in agriculture in a special, perhaps slightly different way, but our goal was shared. Therefore, I sincerely ask that we allow this law to progress to the second reading and that we can complete, correct and improve it during the first and second readings. If you reject this law at this stage, you will simply end or disable further discussion. However, the laws that come after our law are, in my opinion, worse and will cause much more problems for farmers as well as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chambers. But there's another interesting thing. Sometimes you really feel powerless with all these lobbying. Today, we have spent hours discussing things that touch about 100,000 people in the country. This seems to me to be an important topic that affects life or touches many people. If you look at electronic media or other reports, you will see that today's debate in this house does not exist at all. And maybe I'll start to believe in conspiracy theories that there are strong lobbyies that can even achieve that some things, if there's no interest, if you're strong, just don't talk. And that is not the case, and you will be able to prove today with your "yes" vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u286	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that. I must first say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are aware that the law needs to be changed. We have been saying this for quite some time, and we have also, at the beginning of the previous term in the previous coalition, when we wrote the coalition contract, also in white, written that we will go into change, in such a way that we will reduce the number of members of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber to those who actually live from agriculture and are expected to have a certain interest in being represented by an institution, in this case the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, i.e. an institution that represents them before the state, representing them in the regulation of normative matters and so on. And certainly all those who live from agriculture are still interested in getting this help in nature. And that's the law we've made, and that's the law we're going to be considering if it doesn't get the support that we're going to see as the next one today. Then there will be an opportunity for us to resolve the matter in that sense. With this law, we anticipate a first phase reduction in the number of members from about 110 000 to 80 000, which means about 30%. However, I guarantee that we will also monitor what will happen to KD, which has already been on one of the agenda items in the debate today. In the light of the decisions in the Cadastrian Income Act, we will possibly propose a further change in censorship and thus reduce the number of members so that those who are really interested in helping them solve their problems on their behalf will be. And we wrote one more thing down. Once such a reduced membership, which will certainly be interested in being represented, the Chamber will hold a referendum among the members and then the members will be the ones who will tell what kind of room they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u288	Thank you, too. I am opening the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u289	Your Honor! We need a strong chamber to be able to have a dialogue with the ministry, with the minister, with the government, including with Parliament. And we must have such a chamber to represent those who are truly farmers. And in this case, if I do not explain it in broad terms, I fully support the statement made by my colleague the Presecnik, the pity that you are in opposition, I think we agree here 100% and we will not support the Social Democrats of this bill. But I do hope that then Comrade Tonin won't test us, let's raise our hand, let's see who's thinking and whatnot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvat will be next to explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased with the quality of today's debate, many of you have debated the need to open the debate. Perhaps you thought once in the future. But why delay? Today we have opened it, I suggest that we continue it in the second session of the committee and give it the opportunity to speak also. I regretted that today the President of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, otherwise also a parliamentarian, was somehow sad sitting on the balcony watching and listening to our discussions. I am convinced that Slovenia, not only has it gained its independence 22 years ago, that it has also freed itself to become a free country. This also means that we allow farmers in this case, in our case of law, to allow farmers to unite freely, not under any pressure, not under the pressure of some lobbyists. Look, the lobby's here, definitely. Mate Matthew Tonin also spoke about the media lobby. Today is a total media blockade on a four-hour debate here in the National Assembly because someone ordered it. Yeah, how's that? But you think it's a case? Absolutely so! I therefore propose that farmers should indeed hold a referendum and decide freely whether they are for voluntary membership, whether they are for membership in the Chamber of Agriculture or not. And when we have members who will decide freely, only then, colleagues and colleagues, will this be a true chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u292	Thank you, too. Mr. Franz Bogovich will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u293	I myself accompanied today's debate and was glad that we were all united and concerned about the development of Slovenian agriculture. We rarely talk about this subject for so long. We have also been united in the need for amendments and corrections to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Once with 170 thousand members down to a good 110 thousand, it was the first step. In view of the concentration in agriculture too, we expect and assess that this membership should be halved. In the bill we have drafted and even tabled, these are progenys. Above all, I personally think that Slovenian agriculture needs an organised interlocutor, an interlocutor who will not have a minister who will decide what to do in the advisory service, but must have, through elected representatives from the types of farmers, those who also represent this situation. It is a matter of having important decisions before us both in the field of tax law and it is very difficult for me to imagine that those who would explain and represent a farmer would be instructed by a minister of a government to represent him against the introduction of a tax, as is now predicted, and so on. Another important issue is agriculture and the organisation of agricultural production. I firmly believe that farmers, together with the representatives of the Chamber in the future, must focus primarily on the interconnection and increasing competitiveness of the production itself, the transfer of knowledge, and therefore, based on the example of the Austrian Chamber, we are assessing that we need a strong and well-organised Chamber. We will not support this proposal, which is proposed today. However, I believe that if this proposal is not accepted, in another proposal already in the procedure, there are good extensions that we can actually make a good leap in the chamber, but not that we decide in some way to do so. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u294	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. Let me just remind you, we are deciding on a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members, 33 to 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the consideration of the draft resolution on nuclear and radiation security in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2023. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're moving on to decision-making. . We're voting. 77 Members and Members are present. It's 77 votes against no one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4a item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Cadastrian Income Law, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. The debate will be held on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 20 June 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia to Article 9. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, an urgent procedure. Since the amendments to the amended law were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Conglomerates Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 77 votes against no one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 18 June 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. If anyone else wishes to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members, I invite you to report. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u295	Your Honor! On the home committee of the working body for infrastructure and space, we opened the law and adopted the amendment with the support of all of us, with an expert discussion and a goal to find a solution to how best to acquire land for cableway installations. It was agreed that at this time, until the meeting of the National Assembly, a suitable solution should be drawn up to how to acquire these lands. We have received an amendment at the table that is not acceptable and we will refrain from doing so in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? This amendment, I'd say, completely too wide opens the door for dissipation. I believe that this is an explicit and over-average limitation of property rights. Of course, we agree that land extraction through decommissioning should be systematically regulated for all areas and all types of construction for public benefit, but not just for one particular segment that we exclude and that we resolve things in a partial or case-by-case way. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will abstain from this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u296	Thank you. I note that there is no interest in explaining the vote on our own behalf, so we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1, namely, the amendment of the coalition to Article 1 is the one on which we will vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 51 Members and Members voted in favour, no one voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I find that there is no expressed interest in the amendment being tabled. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third hearing, but I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendment adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 52 Members and Members voted in favour, no one voted against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is not suitable for further consideration. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 56 Members and Members voted against 20. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the decision has been adopted, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 18 June 2013, the amendment to point 7. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners to point 7. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 72 Members and Members voted against 3. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree in its entirety. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendment adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly would have led to a motion for a decision being inconsistent. We are voting on the ruling as a whole. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 72 Members and Members voted in favour, against 4. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. POINT OF THE DAY LINE, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL RATIFICATION PROTOCOL PROTOCOL PROTOCOL PROTOCOL PROTOCOL AMENDING THE AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE MEMBER STATES AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Signed 25. And 30. APRIL 2007. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reports in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is a confirmation of the official clearance of the Financial Transactions Act, the Insolvency Procedures and the Forced Disclosure and the Official Clearance of the Safety in Rail Traffic Act. Officially consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Railway Safety Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. By letter of 23 May 2013, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed that Dr Mirjam Škrk, a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague, be elected. I give the floor to Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u297	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! As you are already aware, the procedure for appointing a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague has been ongoing for some time. Following the adoption of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in April this year, all the conditions for the decision of the President of the Republic concerning this proposal have been met. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor thus proposes to the National Assembly that Professor Mirjam Škrk, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, head of the Department of International Law and an agent for Slovenia in the arbitration procedure between Slovenia and Croatia be proposed to be a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Allow only a few of the most important points that are particularly relevant to the proposed candidacy when it comes to an extensive professional path. In addition to the long-standing teaching work at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, where she is currently the head of the Department for International Law and Procedural Affairs for Study Affairs, Dr Škrková was the head of the Institute for International Law and International Relations, a member of the negotiating group of the Republic of Slovenia to succeed the former SFRJ, and a member of the expert group on State border negotiations between Slovenia and Croatia. In April 2008, she was granted an extended term of office at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where she served as Vice-President of the Constitutional Court from November 2004 to November 2007. Between 1995 and 2007, she was the arbitrator of the Court of Reconciliation and Arbitration within the framework of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and a member of the Office of that Court. She was president of the Association for the United Nations for Slovenia, a member of the International Committee for the Succession of States at the International Low Association. She was a member of a number of consultative bodies in the field of international public law, including, in particular, questions directly related to the international situation of Slovenia, participated in the preparation of Slovenian opinions on the Peace Conference on the former Yugoslavia and the Memorandum of Understanding of the Republic of Slovenia on the issues of the arbitration panel of the conference on the former Yugoslavia. She was a member of the negotiating group of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of the legacy of the former SFRJ. The term of office of a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration of The Hague expired in September 2012. She is the author of many professional and scientific works, debates, articles, active participants in important scientific international meetings. At the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana he teaches international law, law of international organisations, maritime international law, international protection of human rights and minority issues and international criminal justice. The President of the Republic is convinced that this is a professionally established candidate, who is known both at home and abroad as a top legal expert and will continue to represent this function at a high professional level if elected. Dear Members and Members, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to appoint Prof. Dr. Škrkovo as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u298	Thank you also for the additional explanation given for the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There is also a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary-General, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to elect Prof. Dr. Mirjam Škrk as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. As we have already heard, the proposed candidate is a regular professor and head of the Department of International Law at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, where she teaches several subjects in the field of international public law. Both at home and abroad, she is considered a respected legal expert from the legal field. On her exceptional professional journey, she successfully performed many responsible functions. Among other things, from October 1998 to April 2008, she was a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia; she was an arbitrator of the Court of Reconciliation and Arbitration within the OSCE; and a member of the negotiating group of the Republic of Slovenia on matters relating to the succession of the former Yugoslavia and the agent for Slovenia in the arbitration procedure between Slovenia and Croatia. As an expert in international public law, she has also participated in many consultative bodies and has performed other important functions, including the function of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, where she is being re-elected by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. Dr. Mirjam Škrk is also the author of many professional and scientific works and an active participant in all major international meetings where international issues are addressed. Regardless of the fact that Members and Members of Parliament will vote on the candidate in secret, and on the basis of all the above, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the proposed candidate, Dr Skrk, I announce our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u300	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Mr. Möderndorfer, do you give up? Yeah. I therefore note that we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to elect a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. It's a mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Kurnjek, Parliamentary Group of the National List and Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Mojca Prelesnik, Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I'm asking if anyone would object to such a composition of the commission. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 19.15 p.m. and will last until 7.30 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u301	We continue with the suspension of the 19th item, this is the proposal for the election of a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of Dr. Mirjam Škrk as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 20 June 2013. 74 ballots were distributed. 74 ballots were delivered. Four votes were invalid. There were 70 valid ballots. There were 52 votes in favour, with 18 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Dr Mirjam Škrk, by a majority of the votes of all Members, was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. I sincerely congratulate the candidates on their election. We are moving on to the proposal for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Tanja Desert Pirnat in judicial capacity, to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. To further explain the motion for election, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice to Mr Janez Vlaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u302	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members, thank you very much for your words. Since the scheduled time for my appearance before the distinguished assembly was limited, it seemed to me that it would be best to make use of it by reading it into a written form of concise text. With regard to the nomination for election to the judicial function of the proposed candidate, which you will decide today, in my previous debate, some representatives of the proposer, even though invited, were not present at the meeting of the competent national assembly committee, which was a matter of a more general nature. In particular, I am thinking of the need for so-called new judges in the Republic of Slovenia and in general, given the comparative data on the number of judges in other European countries. In this regard, the rules of good behaviour may first require my additional explanation for the previous one, otherwise a written apology for the rightful absence of representatives of the proposer at the previous parliamentary committee meeting. Membership in the Council of Justice is not a professional management of the function and we are members of the spending burden on work in the Council of Justice all engaged in tasks related to professional work, which we regularly manage. We have assessed that the results of a thorough and well-established selection process between the candidates who have been declared are sufficiently rich and fully justified in the written material that we have forwarded to the National Assembly and have been based on the already stated confidence of the members of the National Assembly, which you have not generally intervened in our work without sound reasons or concerns so far. I hope that, in the light of certain, let's say, tensions on the relation of the individual branches of power that we are witnessing to at present, this trust will not be a principle. Otherwise, we have been and are always ready to carefully consider and respond to any possible concerns that may arise between Members in relation to judicial nominations, and which, if they are argued, the proposer is, as a rule, unable to respond to, for example, a meeting of the committee responsible, as the proposer is a collective body. The competent parliamentary commission did not provide us with any such concerns regarding the specific candidacy after the meeting. If I now return to the concerns of a general nature that are not related to a concrete candidacy. The call for vacancies shall be within the competence of the Minister of Justice and not of the Council of Justice, who shall have jurisdiction in respect of the systematisation of judicial posts. The latter has not been fully occupied in the courts for several years and the trend towards the decline in the number of seats occupied has been statistically demonstrated and slowly follows the trend required to reduce the number of judges according to comparable statistics on the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants at European level. This is also why vacant courts are generally not replaced, and this is only the case when this is necessary in relation to the situation of individual types of legal areas and courts. And this case of candidate, already professionally confirmed and for a judicial function reliably trained among the 14 candidates of the selected candidate, is such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u303	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. In recent times, we have dealt with the situation several times in court. The data shows that we have twice as many judges as the average in the European Union, so we are at the very top, at the top, we could say, but at the same time we also have the most judicial backlog – we are also at the top here, even in the most difficult cases. It is thus noted that the efficiency or effectiveness of our judges is three to five times lower than the average of the European Union compared to the average in the European Union. We therefore consider that it is necessary to reform the judiciary, that it is no longer enough to appoint always new judges, that quality is also important and that something needs to be done about it. As a party, we have been warning and proposing certain changes for a long time. It seems that perhaps now is the time for some things to change. We propose reform of the judiciary in both constitutional and procedural work, criteria for services, criteria for accountability. Better judicial organisation is also needed, and perhaps the way judges are selected is not the best or would be useful to improve. The process is very important that we really get the best candidates. There is also a body abroad that selects judges, examines candidates in detail and examines their knowledge, skills, experience and position. With us, candidates don't even stop a simple job interview. That the candidate has a conversation for every simple job, but the judge doesn't, it's particularly strange. So says the professor at the Faculty of Law in Maribor. So an assistant from the university can become a judge based on a biography on a few pages that he wrote himself and sent to the Council of Justice. The National Assembly shall, out of respect for the principle of the division of power into proposed candidates, not intervene and confirm everything. We therefore assess that it is necessary to reform the judiciary first, to determine what it really needs, and then to decide who will occupy the seats of judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u305	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Tanja Puštovr Pirnat in judicial function at the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the definition of a motion for a decree to resolve a member of the Electronic Communications Council, Dr Branko Kavčič. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on scholarships under the regular procedure. On Tuesday 18 June 2013, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I open up an opportunity to explain my vote on behalf of the groups of Members. There are a few too many of you to explain your vote on behalf of the groups. I think he's a magician. Andrej Vizjak has already made clear his interest that he will explain the position or voice of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u306	Dear President, again, I was the only one who knew why I was pressing that button. The law on scholarship is, I think, the last law that Parliament is considering under the quota of laws adopted by the government of Janez Janša. This marriage has quite a history. He began to prepare, but came in conflict with the interests of the student and student organisations mainly on the issue of the reimbursement of scholarships for underage students, state scholarships for underage students. When we found an agreement with the student and student organisations at the beginning of this year, the matter was mature enough to pass this agreement, as the student and student organisations are some kind of social partners in the negotiation of such an important law as the law on scholarships. It is also good that other solutions that have been adopted before and have been prepared in some way four, five years ago in this law have been adopted and have been able to do so through parliamentary procedure. I'd especially like to point out here scholarships for deficient professions. We have extremely high structural unemployment. On the one hand, we have demand for certain profiles, and we have an army of unemployed people in those profiles for which there are no jobs. We have jobs, but we don’t have people or suitable educated youths. And in particular, we have a lot of unemployed and, unfortunately, too few jobs. This law was adopted unanimously and went through parliamentary procedure as a number of laws that we have drawn up at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I am very pleased that the current Minister has also resigned from some of her previous paradigm when the Ministry heard from the current Rector of the University of Ljubljana that state scholarships for underage students were compensated by child allowances. So I am pleased that the current coalition has supported the logic and the solution to return these scholarships to young students, so I am very pleased that we can probably adopt this law unanimously today, probably the last law in the previous term.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-20-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u307	Thank you. I take it we can go to the vote. We are voting on the proposal for a law on scholarship. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 15th meeting of the Assembly and wish you a pleasant evening to continue and to see you at tomorrow's meeting.
