ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Roberto Battelli cannot attend today's meeting. I welcome everyone here. We move on to the 3rd A-point of the agenda, which is to defend the bill on amendments and supplements to the pay system in the public sector, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the representative of the Government want to speak as a proponent for further explanation of the proposal? Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law before you is part of the package for the implementation of the strike agreement and the agreement between the Government and the Public Sector Unions. In addition, the law also includes the new ZIPR for 2013 and 2014 and the collective contract for the public sector, the collective agreement for non-economic activities and collective agreements for public sector activities and occupations. These measures are aimed at fiscal consolidation. In the 2013 and 2014 budget, wages are projected at 6.4% less than the 2012 implementation. It is said that the volume of wages is falling by 288 million, with the measures brought by the ZUJF only sufficient to cover around 80 million, which means that if we did not take these measures that we are talking about today, we would have an estimated 200 million holes at the end of the year in all four public payroll offices and would have a really very big problem. ZUJF brought about 130 million savings on salaries and then dropped on our table the Supreme Court's judgment on regression, where the government lost against several unions and the value of this is 50 million with late interest, of course. By the old tradition, bad habits, the state was saving again on the principle of "let's spar, let's cost it what it wants." When we save in this way, it returns as a boomerang, usually with late interest. And that's not good. It is a pity that the agreement on salaries for this year was not concluded in time before the budget for 2013 went to the National Assembly. If such an agreement, as we have concluded now, were to be concluded in due time, its effects would be double throughout the year and will only enter into force on 1 June and will be significantly smaller – only from June to the end of the year. It's been six months, but it's better late than never. I already said at the hearing that this is my top priority and that we're going to try to finish by May 10th. At that time, some said that we would barely get well on May 10th, but we were able to reach an agreement. On 14 May, we initialed it, we signed it yesterday, and now it's also going to be a legislative reality. You know the key actions, you've already figured them out from the media. It is mainly about the so-called compression of the salary scale, the freezing of supplementary pension insurance, the reduction of certain allowances, the postponement of payments of advances from 1 June of this year to 1. 4. the following year and to extend certain measures which would cease to apply at the end of the year as the NUJF would cease to apply in these points. But it is about freezing new advances, freezing the work performance. If we put it all together, it would apply for the following year, so these measures that we agreed to apply for the following year a little less than 400 million. I am talking about the extension of the ZUJF measures and the new measures brought about by this agreement. It seems very important to me that we have reached these measures in social dialogue. If the government went unilaterally and forcefully, perhaps they would take even sharper measures, perhaps with more linear measures, but the price they would pay would eventually be higher. We'd have a referendum, we'd have sentences, we'd have demonstrations, we'd have a conflict. That's the worst part. However, I think that the Government should treat public servants as its co-workers, not as opponents or enemies or parasites. 155 000 employees in the public sector must be treated as our co-workers. It's over. A key step, this is a new salary scale, also based on the principle of solidarity. The unions insisted on this, which simply means that we raise our salaries the most in the higher wage classes, the biggest reductions are in the highest officials. We could also say that by doing so, we follow the example of those companies, those companies that paid low wages instead of going into forgiveness. And that's where the leadership first lowered their salaries more than the wages were reduced in here to the others. I'm asking you to support this law. However, I must stress this law in particular and for ZIPRO – this agreement is a package. If we break just one point in this package, we can fall the whole package, because the agreements need to be respected, and this also applies to the Government, including to Parliament, including to power, not just to trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Jerk Čehovin, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Nice greetings to the minister, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues! At today's meeting, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government addressed the proposal for a law amending the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. The representative of the proposed Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, said, at the additional explanation of the articles, that the proposed law was the result of successful negotiations between the government and the public-sector trade unions. He pointed out that the applicant was aware that the wage cut did not bring economic growth, but that such a measure was taken, otherwise at the end of the year, the salary money would run out. The salary scale is thus temporarily changed by the principle of solidarity. Those with higher wages take more. The proposed law extends the following austerity measures, which are applicable this year under the Public Finance Balance Act, called Zuyf: freezing of progress, freezing of the work performance allowance and reducing the annual holiday regression. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Miroslav Palhartinger, said that most of the comments from their written legal opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Again, she pointed out that most of the proposed provisions were of a specific nature which would have limited time-limit in relation to the provisions of the Public Sector Wages Act. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, this is comparable to the way in which those contents have been regulated which have been used in a series of other laws. This approach was based on the intervention nature of the solution, but due to the inclusion of provisions in several legislative texts, it has caused considerable uncertainty and uncertainty in the legal regime and thus has an impact on legal certainty and the rule of law. The proposed solutions reintroduce part of the content of the law. Nevertheless, on individual issues, such as progress, also a certain amount of regression, a certain fragmentation of the conservation regime. The legislative and legal service therefore points out that a rounded and substantively focused legal regime should be provided for users whose situation is regulated in the interests of clarity. The legislative and legal service will adapt the title of the law when preparing the publication text, as there is only one amendment in addition to the additions. The representative of the Council of State, Councillor Rajko Fajt, presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposed solutions reached through dialogue with the social partners, and agrees with the proposaler's efforts to resolve the tightening public finances situation. In doing so, he stressed that at least the public sector has been subject to a number of measures and restrictions over the past ten years and that the structural relationship remains largely unchanged and would suggest a greater reflection on the integrity of the necessary measures. Any measures to stabilise the public financial situation would also indicate the preparation of measures to ensure jobs in the area of the grey economy and the recovery of unpaid taxes. He also noted that the practice and effects of sharp austerity measures in European countries, such as Greece, Spain and Portugal, did not show the desired results, but did produce the opposite effects: the increase in unemployment and the decline in the demand for fiscal consolidation. The solutions proposed could thus affect the reduction of purchasing power and the change in social relations. The representative of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, Branimir Strukelj, said that there is no room for wage reduction in the public sector and that there will be a need to shift to the area of the grey economy and public procurement and to obtain funding that is lacking in the budget. He stressed the need to find an answer to the question why the Slovenian economy is not able to finance the public sector, which, compared to European countries, has a fully average cost and has a total average cost. He pointed out that the public sector has been living without every incentive for five years, as there are no jobs rewards, young experts and experts are unable to make progress, as promotions are frozen and this has a very disstimulating effect on workers. The head of the negotiating group of public sector unions, Drago Ščernjavič, said that the internal reserves were elsewhere, not only at the salaries of public officials. He also highlighted the area of the grey economy and public procurement, where much could be saved. In addition, he called on the legislator to remove or amend all unclear provisions in laws and regulations, as the costs of judicial disputes due to such provisions amount to around EUR 200 million. In the debate, members of the coalition said that the proposed law and amendments followed by the opinion supported, as they were the result of negotiations between the government and the trade unions. While supporting the proposed amendment, members of the opposition cautioned that the public sector's wage cuts would leave the best staff, thereby reducing the quality of work. In their view, reserves are also elsewhere, not only for the salaries of public servants. The representative explained that the scope of the public administration has been steadily decreasing since 2005 and will continue in the future. According to the applicant, the mass or performance of the reduction in wages by 2% and the abolition of the academic title allowances should also be ensured, but the solutions proposed in this and other related legislative proposals are the result of negotiations with trade unions. The Committee then adopted both amendments. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u5	I thank the chairman of the committee. Perhaps you would like to have the floor with representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yes, that's why I'm opening the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Eight parliamentary groups have been reported. First of all, I invite Mr Čehovin on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thanks again for saying that. Now, of course, I'll be shorter. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! The bill before us regulates urgent measures in the area of salaries of public officials and officials, which will help to establish a stable economic growth and a sustainable structural balance of public finances in 2013 and 2014. Yesterday, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative public sector unions signed an agreement on additional wage and other public sector labour costs to balance public finances between 1 June 2013 and 31.12.2014 and a strike agreement providing the basis and guidance for the planned implementation of the measures with effect from 1. 6. 2013 in the relevant legislation and collective agreements governing public sector labour rights. In a very short period of time, the government held difficult negotiations and reached a reasonable agreement with the public sector unions. The government did its job well because it remained within the framework of the objectives set by it in the Stability Programme, while negotiating measures that were considered fairer by public servants. It is also important that these measures are agreed, are based on social dialogue and are coordinated with the social partners. The proposal thus includes a revised salary scale, an amended work-life allowance for each completed year over 25 years of working time, the coordination of basic salaries, regular work performance and work performance for an increased workload. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law, as all the measures taken are in line with the social partners and are based on the strike agreement and the agreement on additional measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Dr. Virant! Let me also welcome young visitors on the balcony from this town. We have been in a period of deep economic crisis for several years. Gross domestic product trends are negative. We are facing a high fiscal deficit. Before the last state elections in 2011 – I emphasise, 2011, we have written in the programme of New Slovenia, quote: "In the next two years it is necessary to manage the public debt in order not to exceed 45% of the gross social product, which is one of the key tasks. All public financial users must first reduce their own consumption according to the principle of maximum benefit, minimum damage. If this fails, the Government must determine measures and reductions itself within three months. We must by no means continue to be indebted to our grandchildren. Public spending must be aligned within two years with public financial revenues." We hold firmly to these programming platforms and commitments in New Slovenia and defend them all the time, whether we are a government or an opposition party. This means that in New Slovenia we are firmly determined that public expenditure should be offset by public financial revenues already in the financial year 2015. We therefore support measures to reduce public spending quickly and fundamentally. Thus, in the previous government, which we were part of, we have already supported the Public Finance Balance Act, which has brought a number of measures both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side and in 2012 reduced the public financial expenditure by almost a billion euros and saved the corresponding savings even this year. With ZUJF, it has already been reached into salaries and other benefits of public servants and officials. The current government has assessed that interventions in this area with Zujf have not been sufficient and proposes further measures in the area of reducing budgetary expenditure, in the area of wages. In particular, it is the non-payment of the allowance for regular work performance, the reduction of the cost of work resulting from the increased work volume and the compression of the salary scale of public servants and officials. All these measures are provisional for the period from 1. 6. 2013 until the end of 2014, which constitutes an intervention in the salary scale for basic salaries, but in the way that smaller basic salaries are reduced relatively less than the higher basic wages. We support such an approach to wage cuts, as in our view those with higher incomes should contribute more to savings than those with lower incomes. In particular, I would like to stress that wage interventions will be the largest among officials, i.e. Members of our House. We support such a solution because we need to be exactly the example of officials for all other public servants. As already mentioned, Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposed amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System and also the amendment to the Law on Judicial Service and the amendment to the Law on State Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! We will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Since we have adopted two amendments at the committee meeting, those weaknesses of the amendment proposal, which has been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, have also been removed. And after ensuring that such a law has now got the right image, we can no longer doubt here that the adoption of the law is good. I would, however, like to repeat the warning on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Because we are interfering with this novel in what was stated with Zujf last year, this is once again an opportunity to point out how some premature, under-thinking and under-analysing changes have bad consequences. The projected savings at the time of the adoption of Zujf fell to 130 million, minus what needs to be paid due to the judicial decision, this savings will be reduced by another 50 million. So this is a good enough lesson as to how things must be well prepared and that sometimes seemingly simple solutions have bad effects. The second reason why we will support the proposal is the fact that an agreement has been reached in the social dialogue. This agreement is based on the temporaryity or intervention of the measures to be implemented by the end of next year. Again, the social democrats are asked how to ensure the necessary quality of public services in the public sector, given that the motivation of public sector employees is declining, given the social climate in which we adopt laws, where the public sector is considered as a parasite, so to speak, as a layman of the state Treasury, of the state budget. If I look only at the school sphere, the possibility of any incentives for quality work has been denied to employees for five years. In order to ensure quality, appropriate incentives must also be provided, which means that the possibility of progress and the possibility of awarding for quality work must be carried out consistently. We hope that this will be settled, because we have heard that it is those who are entering the new work that the opportunity for new progress is still a year and a half away. And I'm going to make a fourth argument, which is why we're going to support the proposed amendment. This is the principle of solidarity which is incorporated into this proposed law. It's a compression scale. We believe that, according to the principle of fairness, it is right that those who are easier to miss because we have better income contribute to overcoming the crisis and to achieve a more balanced public finances. If this will last until the end of 2014, there will also be no need to apply the specific clause reached by the trade unions in the negotiations. In fact, if there was a strike, it would cost the state's strike. We hope that at least this part will be regulated so that we do not accumulate additional costs, but we warn ourselves all the time that saving alone will not drive the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u12	Minister, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group we are very interested in monitoring the situation in the coalition, because we care about the country. We have been alone until recently, those we have begun to bring this country into order, even though we were then aware that short-term measures would not be good for citizens, but that something must be done. On the part of the then opposition, unions and the media, we were bombed daily to do everything wrong and wrong. But the political cards were mixed up and the measures of the former government, including the Public Finance Balance Act or the Zuyf, which was then loaded with a huge amount of manure, suddenly become good and successful measures. And those threats that were then, why are we rushing that the situation isn't serious, the questions why we're threatening are suddenly silent. More. The plate's turned around. The current coalition has also become clearly aware of the seriousness of the situation and that urgent action is needed. There is even evidence that Janez Janša’s government has not been more active, more efficient and faster in reforms. But then the unions and the media didn't share vacations. Therefore, in the SDS today, we are pleased that we are united, that the situation is serious and that action is urgent. But there are different ways to do this. Today we have the Public Sector Wage System Act. At the time of Zujf's admission, we have indeed cut into the salaries of public servants, but we have committed ourselves to following other additional measures in the public sector to make order here. But this government has chosen the easiest, but certainly not the most just path. She's cut her wages again. There is no mention of a reduction in the number of employees, i.e. forgiveness. Nothing about public procurement, nothing about regulations on individual segments. A very selective law, which is the result of government-union snitching about supplements and lowering wages to the highest bidders. Nothing about whether everyone deserves that salary. The law is also unfair in its work because the wallets again hit those segments in the public sector that were already looking for reserves within their segment mainly in terms of wages. But because obviously only the right union is now – probably their government, there is no mirage with protests, sentences, referendums. In our opinion, the law is very unconsistent. In the SDS, we have always been of the view that everyone in the public sector is not the same, but if the internal enemy of trade unions is the same, they are almost completely unified and dictate the policy of each government. In short, the government has used the easiest mode of action, sometimes raises taxes, and here lowers wages. No matter who earns the economy's salary at all. Instead of making order within the public sector by forgiving poor employees, forgiving those whom the system, especially in times of crisis, does not need to look at the area of standards and standards, and at the field of public procurement and calls for services to be paid. That's too bad. According to the SDS, the opportunity to make progress in order in the public sector is delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. When we thought that the government was preparing only solutions in the form of increasing the revenue of the state budget by increasing taxes, we found that, however, it was also thinking about reducing some of the budget's expenditure, particularly the reduction in the wages of public sector employees. After all, the figures in this year's and next year's budgets have been adopted without a vote against those to be followed if we are to maintain the remaining credibility. But we soon realized that it was just a cosmetic downsizing. The proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act follows, therefore, the signed agreement signed yesterday by signing the necessary documents between the Government and the representative trade unions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we generally agree that any agreement is better than a headless insistence on opposite shores or unilateral measures, but we estimate that the agreed intervention in the amount of wages given the economic situation is substantially too modest or at least disproportionate to the effects foreseen on the revenue side of the budget. We all know that the economy and the majority of the population have been paying a high price since 2008. Over 60,000 jobs in the economy have decreased, while the number of employees in the public sector has increased by almost 10,000 since then. However, there was no concrete intervention in the mass of wages until last July by the adoption of the ZUJF. Today’s Finances provide an interesting analysis of how much of the burden of the crisis or the balance of public finances has been contributed by taxpayers and what part of the public sector. According to their calculations, taxpayers contributed up to EUR 1.8 billion over higher tax burdens, while the total savings in public administration are combined with a reduction in investment expenditure of EUR 300 million. Thus, during this period, taxpayers contributed as much as five times more to the balance of public finances than was the effect of reducing spending in public administration, even before VAT rises, raising the type of excise duties and taxes that we are looking at this year. Let me go back to the content of the proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The law changes the salary scale, i.e. the basic salaries for public servants or officials are reduced progressively, more so for those in higher pay grade. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that we have more to sing with more events, but I am nevertheless warning that this brings us closer to the balance sheet and that we are still not establishing a system that would give the leaders the opportunity to reward those who are doing well and to sanction those who are merely going to work. In the light of the agreement reached, more members of the representative trade unions will be awarded a 20% higher solidarity aid and 20% higher jubilee awards. In view of the reference made by stakeholders from the government and trade unions to high ethical standards, the preference of the work of public servants is quite unusual only because of their membership in the union. The proposed measures are expected to bring 109 million this year and 183 million euros next year, which according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not be sufficient to balance public finances and fulfil commitments made. In the public sector, a number of sour apples will have to be bitten, particularly in the area of improving the public procurement system, various advisory contracts and the above-mentioned sanctioning of the incapacitated and the reduction in the number of redundant public servants, after all, also in the field of standards. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed amendment to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages will not be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues welcome! Amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wages Act, together with additions to the Judicial Service Act and the State Defence Act, constitute a threefold reduction in salaries and remuneration of public servants for the period until the end of 2014. I will therefore present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code on all three laws together. Laws are the result of social dialogue, an agreement with trade unions in the public sector. We look forward to this agreement in the Group of Members, and we welcome both our Minister, Mr Virant and the Trade Unions, for their understanding and responsibility. The Wage Scheme Act also provides, in addition to the agreement on the reduction in the value of wage relations, classes and relationships between them, for an amended labour-time allowance, an extension of the intervention measure for non-coordination of basic wages, a re-restriction of regular work performance and a re-restriction of labour performance limitations on the basis of the increased volume of work. The revised salary scale represents a reduction of the state budget expenditure by EUR 25 million in 2013 and EUR 50 million in 2014. The compression of the salary scale actually means a crisis tax. Those public servants who receive a salary of 19th grade will be reduced by an estimated of €5 and €263 in the 65th grade. An agreement was reached with the unions on a 110 million-million-dollar reduction in wages together with ZIPR and a collective contract for the public sector. This means that every public servant in Slovenia will contribute slightly less than €700 on average this year. The Council will not adapt to Slovenia, Slovenia must adapt to the world and to the situation in our economy. We must admit that the rationalisation of the public sector in other European countries has been even more radical and have also been pursued before us. In the Civil Gazette, we hope that our President's efforts in the negotiations have been sufficient and that temporary measures will not need to extend the duration. Dr. Virant did his homework in his area. It should also be followed by other ministers with systematic, best lasting measures in specific areas, structural reforms that should have been adopted decades ago. Since we didn't, we're talking about a lost decade. In the Citizens' List, we always stress that the public sector and the private sector go hand in hand. One's not without the other. Since 2008, we have lost more than 70,000 jobs in the economy; on the other hand, we have 10 000 new jobs in the public administration area during this period. The more the public sector helps the economy by creating an appropriate business environment by removing administrative barriers, the sooner we can talk about higher wages in the public sector. Whatever we say to the measures on the expenditure side of the budget, ZUJF 2, saving or, if it is better to hear, adjusting spending, it is a fact that we must continue to do so. Why? So we don't take away the dreams of the generations coming after us. We do not have a problem with taking measures in the Civil Gazette, which means that our youth will be able to keep their dreams alive. That is why we will support the novels of the Wage System, Judicial Service and State Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Minister Gregor Virant continues the good practice of former Minister of Labour Andrej Visiak, proposing legal solutions based on a successful social dialogue. We also argue in the DeSUS Group that before the condition of implementing solutions or planned reforms, these should be temporary or permanent in nature, they should also represent rigorous interventions in the position of individuals, a well-structured social dialogue. This is the only way to take measures that are now more than necessary, and they have actually abstained. A good example of this is the adoption of a pension reform. Much has been done in order to resolve the crisis last year. This practice should be continued and appropriate solutions should be adopted without delay to enable recovery. Last year, there was a lot of savings on the shoulders of public servants. There's no denying that. Today, however, the situation is that the measures already taken need to be extended in time and that new measures should also be designed and adopted in both a temporary and a permanent manner. On the basis of the long-term negotiations with representative trade unions, the government has agreed on measures which constitute cuts at the expense of public spending in the work relating to the salaries of public servants. We are all familiar with these measures. They've been listed today, too, so I'm not going to repeat them here. Members themselves did not participate in the design phase of these measures. If possible, the comments of our parliamentary group would refer to an unjustified reduction in the salaries of those classified in the lowest wage classes. Here, in our view, the proposed cuts are unfair and unsocial. We consider a 20 per cent increase in the jubilee awards to union members to be unnecessary an additional cost, also unjustifiable, perhaps even an unconstitutional distinction between public servants who are members of the union and, on the other hand, those public servants who are not members of any of the unions. However, as we have already said, we will not go into agreements already concluded. We are aware that there has been a great deal of effort to be made in this agreement, both on the one hand and on the other, and on the other, we do not intend to bring this agreement down. We will therefore support all three pieces of legislation relating to salaries in the public sector, namely the amendment of the Law on Public Sector Wage Schemes, the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service and the amendment of the Law on State Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 3B of the agenda, it's a defence proposal for a law supplementing the law on judicial service, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Would you like a word from the government? He's not here. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. Does Vice-President Jasmina Opec want to speak? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. At its 23rd urgent meeting, on 20 May 2013, the Committee of Justice considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judicial Service submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 17. 5. 2013 At its 53rd meeting, on 17 May 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 20 May 2013, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 20 May 2013 and the Government's letter of 20 May 2013 with an informative calculation of the financial effects of the draft law. In an additional explanation for the articles, the proponent's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj, said that the proposed law follows the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. According to the proposaler, in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the equality of officials of all three branches of government, there is no need to amend the laws of the home. However, since the Court of Labour and Social Affairs considers otherwise in its decision, that the reduction in the salaries of judicial officials may only apply after the law of origin has been established, the applicant has prepared changes in the pedagogical nature. At the time of presentation of their written legal opinion, the representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina Kralj, said that the legislative and legal services had questioned the need for the proposed amendments, both the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on State Defence. In view of the different case law, the proposed changes of the pedagogical nature should be addressed systematically in order to avoid further possible changes of this kind. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the proposal for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Committee's expert service to Article 1 or the coalition groups to Article 2, their comments shall be duly taken into account. The coalition parliamentary groups then withdrew their amendment proposal to Article 1. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supported the proposal for a law. The representative of the Supreme Court, Secretary-General Janko Marinko, said that the proposed regulation in the home law was mainly relevant in order to avoid unnecessary burden of the courts due to the lack of precise nomotechnics in the preparation of such intervention laws. He stressed that the salary position or material independence of judges must also be ensured by protecting it by means of a parental law, which prevents unnecessary or inappropriate interference by the legislative or executive branches. A representative of the State Attorney's Office, High Prosecutor Hinko Jenull, said that the proposed amendments were accepted with understanding. He pointed out that, in order to achieve greater efficiency in the implementation of certain tasks by law, the issue of financing the State Prosecutor's Office and the appointment of new state prosecutors should also be addressed, and amendments to the State Prosecutor's Act should be adopted in order to simplify and strengthen the power of the Prosecutor's Office. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 2 without discussion. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted both articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I'll open the application. Mr Janez Ribič made his first statement on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u22	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Madam Members and Members of Parliament! The addition of both laws is linked to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which introduces temporary measures in the field of the remuneration of public servants and officials. Specifies a new provisional salary scale for the period from 1. 6 2013 to 31. 12. 2014, non-alignment of basic salaries in 2014 and labour performance restrictions in 2013-2014. The applicants argue that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on State Defence will provide sustainable public finances, provide a legal framework for effective management of public finances and ensure macroeconomic stability and sustainable and stable national economic development. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group in a given situation, when it is necessary to adopt and implement measures already taken by the previous Government, we believe that much more will have to be done to achieve these objectives than to change the salary scale of the public sector, particularly in the area of promotion as economic development or entrepreneurship. The proposal also mentions that the law in connection with the amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act follows the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that the three branches of government must also be equal in relation to the material status of their officials and the principle of legality in relation to the principle of prudent use of public funds. In this regard, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which stresses that the provisions of the Judicial Service Act as well as the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System clearly state that in determining the basic salaries of judges, the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, including all its novelties, which sets out the salary classes of judges or their range and salary scales, should not be supplemented in essence. The Committee on Justice, however, explained from the point of view of the Supreme Court that the salary position or material independence of judges must also be guaranteed by protecting it by means of a mother law, which prevents unnecessary or inappropriate interference by the legislative or executive branches. Such an argument seems rather strange to us, given that the Law on Judicial Service is also passed by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I'll talk about the whole package of laws, regardless of the agenda. As far as our party is concerned, of course, we do not intend to put into question an agreement that has been reached within the social partners, nor do we intend to oppose it. However, as regards the law itself or the whole package, it is necessary to say something on behalf of the Group of Members to complement what we have heard in the introduction. The former government, of course, did not leave a hole in the budget, but it had a completely different concept than that of this government, which, of course, it has, I am talking about the current government, all the right to regulate matters in the way it intended, and in this context, we also respect the agreements reached by Minister Virant. However, due to objectivity, we have taken a slightly different approach in the previous government. Savings in this country did not start in 2012, but started much, much earlier. And there are whole sectors in this country that have taken austerity seriously before and which have been severely lowering wages since 2009 onwards. One such sector is the one that I myself led, or the police, that belongs to the interior ministry. The number of employees has been there since the time of two of my predecessors, I am speaking from Mrs Kresalova, Mr Zalar, and has decreased by 800 during my term of office. It means that this sector has already paid its tax. Other sectors, social, health, education, have increased the number of employees. If education and health is still justified, we are also getting older in the social field and there are growing needs, there is no such thing as education, and once again I emphasise, there is no excuse. Even at the time of the previous government, I am talking about Mr Pahor's government, and even in our time, the number of employees in education has not diminished. But we all know that the population has been severely, severely reduced all this time. And we came from 30 to 16 thousand children in one generation, which means from year to year fewer teachers. There were more teachers from year to year. That is why today we are at some point when we have about 18 children in the classroom in Slovenia, which is one of the best and most favourable standards in Europe. However, we let Mr Strukko and Mr SVIZ down the line. And the concept that was negotiated, I stress, Minister, we respect it and we will not in any way break it, but for us it means a concept in which the one who was insubordinate, the one who did not respect the agreements, and the one who was already saving is punished. I'm speaking the case of police and education. What have we done now? We took them all to cover mostly the schoolchildren and pay for them. And that's not good. The only thing that I think is within this good is the Minister's announcements in one of the parliamentary questions in the previous session, where he somehow said he would try to compensate these matters within the police in other ways. This seems fine to me, but in general it does not seem right to me that this path has been chosen, which we still respect, as I said. One thing has to be said here to conclude perhaps one thing. Our concept was very clear. The Minister is responsible for the mass of wages in his department, or for the amount of wages, the presidents are responsible – from university, education, health care, administrators to kindergartens, if you want. And they had every opportunity to take things out either by forgiveness or by reducing the number of employees and in other ways. This was our concept, which we adopted when we adopted the budget and we stuck to it. As far as what has been adopted is concerned, as I said, this is another concept to which the government has the right and, of course, I intend to see the government adopt these laws and achieve its goal, we will not oppose or break them in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u26	Dear Mr. Secretary, everyone else. I'll also discuss both laws in the package. I don't think there's any need to repeat what we've already heard. The Social Democrats will support both proposals. However, we would like to see other measures that the government is preparing, as we would like to say, as soon as possible, because we are convinced that there is also a slow decline in reserves in the public sector and we are not entirely sure that trade unions will be able to agree on any similar intervention in the future. However, I would like to comment, or the predecessor had some general discussion, and I would say that once this Europe will have to say that Slovenia does not want to be Pakistan, where the factory with thousands and some workers who die there will not be allowed to exorcise us to the end and that our people will work, I don't know, for 400 euros, because 600 and something is already too much. We hear that the economy has reduced the number of employees by, I hear once, 60 thousand, another 70 thousand, and that the public sector has increased the number of employees by 6 thousand and 7 thousand. I say, the answer to this question, which was raised here before the public sector helps the economy, will come out of the crisis sooner. Does the public sector not provide services to the economy to ensure that mothers are safe in their jobs, because children are safe, satisfied, dressed, warm, children in school are provided, even with extended stay, that transport is arranged? That's all it costs. It's the public sector. The public sector is a health sector that deals with prevention and curativeness, which ensures that workers – and the teacher is a worker – are healthy to heal when they are sick. The public sector is in the area of culture, sports to gain energy, a little optimism and spiritual added value in your life, to make it easier to work for 8 or 9 hours. The public sector is the police, the customs, the military, who makes us feel safe. It was said how much police have reduced the number of their employees. Yesterday we heard, here I said in this room, judicial officers - two oversee 250 prisoners. Two! This is not the success of this society, this is a disaster. That's dangerous. We won't be bragging about it. And we'd like a babysitter in the children's ward, where, say, 7, 8, 9 babies, she's a nanny. In a kindergarten like this, I wouldn't put my child in a department like this. We have retirement homes, nursing homes, the elderly are getting older. Is it not a service to the economy that a young family can work smoothly at work because they know that their parents are provided, safe, and that this concern is superfluous? Isn't the public sector service also the administrative unit, the municipality? I was recently robbed of documents — I received new documents in two days. It's a service. Justice. Now we have one black dot these days, but to run things to solve the problems of mediation – all this is a public sector that is constantly criticized, marked as if nothing works. I don't agree with that. Once again, let us say in Brussels that we want to preserve public health, public education, cultural level, the level of sport, security and so on, which we have always behaved before the world. That is why we will support these measures by the Social Democrats and demand that there be new ones. This is what has already been said, a gray economy and so on, not to mention. All of this will have to be done and not just sealed and sent balls from one to the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! Yesterday, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative public sector unions signed an agreement on additional wage and other public sector labour costs to balance public finances between 1 June 2013 and 31 December 2014 and a strike agreement. They also initialled Annex 6 h of the Public Sector Collective Agreement, Annex to the Collective Contract for Non-economic Activities and annex to collective agreements of activities and professions. The signed documents constitute the basis and guidance for the planned implementation of the measures as of 1 June 2013 in the relevant legislation and collective agreements governing the rights of workers in the public sector. The bill on the public sector wage system, which we have already discussed, also needs to be amended by the Law on Judicial Service, which is before us, and by the Law on State Defence, which we will deal with afterwards. With the implementation of the Law on the Supplementation of the Judicial Service Law, the financial impact will be savings at a half-yearly level of €680 000 and savings at an annual level of €363,000. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal because the measures are based on social dialogue and are in line with the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 3C of the agenda, that's a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the law on state defence, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the representative of the government want a word? Yeah. Dr. Gregor Virant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Both the previous law and it is true that we are proposing it and that you are accepting it more just in case. The law on the public sector wage system itself should be sufficient to also reduce salaries for judicial officials and to apply a new salary scale, but we have already stumbled upon a judgment of the labour and social court which could point in the opposite direction, so that we may have a court decide not to pay judges and other judicial officials, so we are also correcting this law just in case. I must say, there was no objection by the judicial officials to the reduction in general. We have held coordination meetings with representatives of various institutions – from the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Court of Justice – and there has been an understanding of these changes. No one objected, no one particularly troubled, everyone is aware that it is necessary to pave the way for other cuts that are necessary by reducing the salaries of officials. The measures adopted today by these three laws and then by ZIP are, of course, the same for the whole public sector. It would not be possible for wage cuts to be different for different budgetary users, such as for police officers one reduction, for doctors the second reduction, for teachers the third reduction, because this would completely undermine the single pay system, which has now proved to be a great tool. If we did not have a single pay system, we would not be able to control the payload through the crisis as we control it. What can the chairman of an individual body do to reduce costs? Something, not everything. How can the principal of primary school, for example, reduce wages by 10 % or 12 % if he does not have a government decision, such as a reduction in standards and standards or a reduction in wage levels. He can't. If we did not go into these measures in which we are going, a number of public sector managers would force them to choose what they should violate: whether they should violate ZIPRO or break their sector-specific rules by which they must, say, implement school programmes. This is an unsustainable situation, I think, is also unconstitutional, and therefore these measures are more than necessary. It is true, however, that it is easier to get savings in public administration, such as reallocation from material costs than from other parts of the public sector. The transfer from the state budget to education is divided so that the material costs take on the minimum of this. It's mostly a pay transfer, and there's no room for manoeuvre here. Today, the debate on the Committee has shown or we have all been unanimous, the government side, the opposition, the unions, and even through negotiations, this has been carried out as a red thread, that there will still be a great deal to be done at the expenditure, that this intervention in wages is not sufficient to reduce expenditure in other areas as well, and especially that public sector employees rightly expect the Government to scrape where it can, in public procurement, in the field of material costs and in the area of revenue collection. Until we collect more taxes from those who do not pay them until we order what we need in public contracts, not other things, until we choose contractors and suppliers in public contracts, so that we can get the cheapest of goods and services, the trade unions will be justified in the negotiations so that we do not take advantage of the reserves where they are. However, there will be a need to change the thinking in public administration, including in the tax administration. I have recently met in the event of the issuance of 8 000 wrong informational income calculations with bureaucratic thinking, which will have to be exceeded in the tax administration and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. He wants to speak to the vice president of the committee? Yeah. Mrs. Jasmina Opec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 23rd urgent meeting, on 20 May 2013, the Committee of Justice considered the draft Law on Supplements to the Law on State Defence submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 17 May 2013. At its 53rd meeting, on 17 May 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 20 May 2013, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 20 May 2013 and the letter of the Government with an informational calculation of the financial effects on the draft law of 20 May 2013. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, provided no explanation for the articles. The representative of the legislative and legal service of Katarina King said that their comments from the written legal opinion were duly taken into account in the proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Committee's expert service to Article 1 or to the coalition groups to Article 2. The coalition parliamentary groups then withdrew their amendment proposal to Article 1. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supported the proposal for a law. The State Defence Representative, Advocate General Boštjan Tratar, expressed his support for the proposed law and the proposed amendments. The Committee adopted, without discussion, its amendments to Articles 1 and 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted both articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Would any representative of the Group of Members like to present a position on behalf of the Group of Members? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. On the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as Head of the Parliamentary Group, I propose a 20-minute recess to be tabled before and before the decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much for the suggestion. We interrupt the session on your proposal for 15 minutes. We'll continue at 3:35.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u36	Since we have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 3rd point of the agenda, this is on the exploratory proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2013 and 2014, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The word is wanted by a representative of the government. Here you go, ma'am. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! One week goes by today, since the Government presented the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme 2013 to the National Assembly. In these two documents, the Government has announced a number of concrete measures on the part of the revenue of the State budget or of the public treasury and on the part of the expenditure of the public treasury. All measures, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, are expected to bring together approximately EUR million of financial impact and are expected to help consolidate public finances in Slovenia. Before the National Assembly today is the first set of concrete measures taken by the Government or coordinated with the social partners in line with the forecasts contained in the Stability Programme. The new Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia also regulates in most of the provisions areas already announced in the Stability Programme. The bill can be divided into three substantive areas. The first area relating to limiting public sector wage expenditure and adapting it to real economic potential covers most of the provisions of the proposal. In 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act was adopted, which already brings some 130 million effects in this area this year. However, the provisions of the adopted budget and the 2012 restrictive measures do not allow for the proper implementation of the budget in 2013, and the Government has already entered into negotiations with the social partners in April to limit, impose additional restrictions on public sector wage funds and thus achieve additional effects of reducing public financial expenditure in this area. In the light of the agreement reached and in the light of the agreement reached to resolve the sentences, the Government has submitted a package of laws to the National Assembly and the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets is one of them. In the field of labour costs, the proposed law for officials and public servants regulates compensation for absence of work due to non-working illness or injury and decreases in accordance with the agreement. The amount of the regression for 2014 shall be fixed, a limitation of the progress of public servants in 2014 shall be set and the right to pay shall be suspended in accordance with the higher wage class or higher title for those public servants who have made progress over the past three years. The grounds for applying lower collective insurance premiums to public servants are also laid down for the period following the entry into force of the law by the end of this year and next year. In addition, in accordance with the trade union agreement, provisions prohibiting the transfer of funds to the state budget's salary lines are being eased in the draft law, but this is still limited to 2% of all remuneration. However, the second important set of provisions of the law relates to the raising of value added tax, which is why the government expects additional financial effects already this year and thus facilitates the balance of finances this year, given the budgetary implementation so far and what can be done by the end of this year. In the light of all the above, we propose that you adopt that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! At its 55th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. On the table we received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and amendments to the proposal tabled by the SDS Group on 1, 2, 6, 10 and 11, the Coalition's parliamentary groups on 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17 and 18 of the draft law. A proposal for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance was also presented at the meeting, namely Articles 4, 7 and 12. In addition, taking into account the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service at the meeting, a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 11 was also tabled and adopted by the Committee in the debate. We've heard the reasons from the proponent, the government, why the changes to ZIP are being made. In the debate on individual members, the members and members of the committee drew attention to many of the issues raised by the proposed solutions to the law and expressed their concerns in particular about the lack of measures proposed to rationalise the public sector, the introduction of a higher price for RTV and the introduction of a higher VAT rate, which they felt is particularly affecting people with lower incomes. The debate also drew attention to the fact that certain measures need to be taken quickly because the budget was unrealistic. VAT raises are seen as a measure that should not have an excessive impact on companies, especially those companies which are export oriented. Some have also expressed concern that the amendments mentioned do not fall within the scope of the proposed amendments to the law but should be resolved under other laws. Furthermore, the State Secretary to the Ministry of Finance gave answers to questions and concerns raised in the debate, stressing the necessity of adopting a bill in terms of sustainability of public finances, increasing revenue and reducing budget expenditure also in the short term and the smooth implementation of the budgets adopted. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the groups of Members to Articles 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17 and 18 and the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 10 of the Law. However, it did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1, 2, 6 and 11 of the bill. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also adopted an amendment to the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 4, the coalition's sent groups to Article 7, the coalition's sent groups to Article 11 and the amendment to the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 12. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. We propose to the National Assembly that this amendment be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. I'm opening a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Five parliamentary groups have been reported. Mr Jožef Horvat made his first statement on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the current amendments and additions to the 2013 and 2014 Budget Implementation Act. What are the main reasons for such a decision? We are opposed to increasing the value added tax. This is a step in the wrong direction, an increase in value added tax is first of all abject economic activity and contributes to an increase in poverty, which is already worrying in our country. The increase in value added tax, in our opinion, will not provide a planned additional inflow into the state treasury, which is an additional inflow of around EUR 250 million per year. At the same time, the government did not take into account that raising VAT does not only bring about a reduction in economic activity but also a reduction in purchasing power and the resulting consumption of the population. Such a measure to increase budgetary revenue is at least an appropriate measure during the period of negative economic growth and high levels of poverty. The government has a number of other, more appropriate fiscal revenue measures, in particular the imposition of a property tax, which would ensure the same or even more favourable fiscal targets and divide the burden of the crisis more fairly. Most definitely, however, we oppose the proposed solution whereby each direct budgetary user has the legal power to redistribute part of the funds from the budget item Material costs and services to the budget item Salary. Such a provision practically destroys the budgetary savings that are being followed by today's novels of the Public Sector Wage System Act, the Judicial Service Act and the State Defence Act. Our lack of transparency in the business of direct budgetary users is a measure that is particularly disstimulating for those direct budgetary users who have in the past rationalised their business and, above all, gives the supervisors the opportunity to continue their current practice, especially those who have not done anything or have done too little in the field of rationalisation. Therefore, some basic asset will remain untenable and this may cause even irreparable damage. Obviously, this is of no interest to the proposer. As it is said, the new Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budget by the New Slovenia Group does not have support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Again, hello! The main solutions to the proposed law were stated by the Government in twelve indents. We don't have any problems with most of the Citizen's List. But we cannot be impressed with some as liberals. When raising the RTV subscription, it's a symbolic message. RTV Slovenia received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors for its business. The taxpayers deserve that each euro is spent transparently and efficiently, so we hope that RTV Slovenia will provide this to Slovenian taxpayers in the future. Secondly, what we have problems with is, of course, VAT hikes. We are in favour of the view that a way out of the crisis is possible along the way of lower tax burdens and not larger ones. While we agree with the President of the Government, who says that raising VAT does not affect exporters in the first step, we export 70% of everything we create in Slovenia. In this respect, VAT can be understood as the least bad measure among the poor, but we do not share here the position of government representatives that the Government has indeed done everything possible on the expenditure side of the budget. We must also acknowledge that the Government has put us in a bit of a corner with the measures it has sent to Brussels. If we do not accept VAT increases today, this will be a message to Brussels that we do not keep our promises and are unable to take the simple measures that the Government has promised or committed itself to in the stability programme. Today, by voting for ZIPRO, we not only give a vote to raise VAT, but also for part of a package of austerity measures or measures that represent measures on the expenditure side of the budget. As we understand that compromises are needed in life and in politics, we will today support the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets in the majority, in the hope that coalition parties will be able to do so when it comes to the withdrawal of the country from the economy and we call on ministers to really roll up their sleeves and start cutting costs within their departments, in order to reach the established goal of raising taxes or budget revenues for one third, and at the expenditure we are really taking measures that will amount to two thirds of this whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u45	Respected and respected! Social Democrats will support the draft law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. This law realizes part of yesterday's agreement with the social partners, realizes the commitment to raise value added tax and increases the RTV contribution, which was also part of the agreement with the social partners. It is worth noting that the state budget situation after implementation in the first months of this year shows a significant gap with the budget adopted and that this country must take additional measures if we are to continue to moderately consolidate public finances and, on the other hand, to ensure that those measures are necessary to allow the economy to deleverage and to exceed bank incursions. According to the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, this year the country will face a record deficit related to the implementation of those measures. In doing so, it is logical that the new government's efforts were aimed at reaching further agreements with the social partners. Social Democrats are pleased that an agreement was reached yesterday that allows us to continue to moderately save without creating conflicts with the social partners, and this would, in our opinion, be one of the first steps to finally succeed in coming out of the crisis. Only part of the savings promised by the National Reform Programme or, above all, the Stability Programme is the law on the implementation of the budget. We expect the Government to present to the National Assembly, as soon as possible, concrete legal solutions for the implementation of other commitments, particularly those related to the field of the grey economy, to cover most of those public financial revenues that remain undetected today or those that remain unsettled. Taxes on added value must be a source of spirits. We Social Democrats were among those who had a restrained attitude towards the increase in both levels of value added tax. In view of the public financial situation, however, we understand that this is probably the most feasible measure to mitigate the public financial situation this year.We are aware of the regressive nature of this tax and the fact that this will probably cause the worst harm to the social vulnerable. Therefore, we are offering to think about adjustments to social or tax policies by, for example, raising additional income relief for the most vulnerable and the poorest among us, thereby neutralising the value added tax. Such an increase in relief could also be an incentive to increase employment. Social Democrats have not proposed raising value added tax, but we have already proposed in 2012 some alternative measures, mainly related to the introduction of tax boxes, the limitation of cash transactions, which would, if implemented in 2012, today reduce the need for such an increase in value added tax. A rise or imposition of a property tax would also in due time ease our country’s public finances. However, the impact of such a tax on economic growth is significantly less than the increase in value added tax. Social Democrats remain on the side of those who are aware of the reality of the Slovenian public financial, economic and social situation, we remain committed to reform measures and to the efforts of the government of Alenka Bratušek to make the commitments we have made to the European Commission a reality. One of the first steps will be to support the law on the implementation of budgets for this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u47	Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose these solutions to the law on the implementation of the budget. As much deception as we have heard here today, and most importantly, that these solutions are consistent with the social partners, I have never heard of them. These solutions are consistent with the unions. The social partners are also employers. And I'm interested in what employers, with which economy did you reconcile VAT hikes? Have you even talked to your employers about VAT increases? Here you are saying that the solutions are consistent with the social partners. The social partners are three. Besides the government, trade unions and employers. You've been aligning with one, you've been making fun of one because you've given them some candy, specifically public sector unions, and now you're selling that solutions are in line with the social partners. They're not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the first time, we are opposed to raising the VAT because Slovenia will be able to drive only a recovering economy out of the crisis. As a rule, VAT increases the economy in several segments. Firstly, it reduces demand and thus reduces creation. Secondly, it affects the liquidity of the economy, as more resources are needed for VAT. Thirdly, the poor competitiveness of the economy, as raising VAT will affect 0.6% of inflation, rising prices of living costs. The cost of living will rise next year to raise the minimum wage and the minimum wage will increase the cost of work in this country and will reduce competitiveness at the same time. It could also indicate how many negative effects this tax has on the economy. Another time. The effect of value added tax is the most a social tax. It affects all layers and the most those who buy basic necessities of life and pay bills and cannot leave the tax. The share of consumption of these lowest vulnerable layers is the highest. For they tend to live from hand to mouth. Everything that is created is spent in the family and directly affected by the tax. This tax is regressive, which means that those with lower incomes pay it more than those with higher income. I want to say that this is a very unsocial measure. And it is not true that we in the former government have also proposed raising VAT — yes, as an extreme asset, when we are exhausted when all other options are exhausted. Other options were not exhausted. There are insufficient reductions in the expenditure side of the budget. That's what you call spending the country. Here we are at the second observation, which is also related to the possibility of reallocation of funds between the state budget accounts, which are so-called material costs, and salaries. An amount of 2 % can be flowed and redistributed from material costs to wages. This means that if there's any savings on material costs, it'll be spent on salaries. According to the union of state authorities workers, these transfers will amount to approximately EUR 100 million. Just as much as is the amount of savings in public sector wage measures. With these transfers, when you save something on the country's material costs, and spend it on wages, you've ruined everything you've agreed to with the public sector unions. I think it's an additional thing that's unacceptable to the functioning of this country. Your Honor, you chose the wrong direction. We have a duty to warn you of that. You have chosen the direction by which you have a slight impact on the expenditure side of the budget – virtually nothing. From what you have said, you will actually compensate for what you have saved on wages by reducing the material costs by redistribution, while raising taxes at the same time. And, of course, we have tabled amendments, the amendments are back on the table, even for not raising VAT, and our support for others depends on the withdrawal of this amendment and the support of this amendment. We managed on the Finance Committee this morning to prevent an increase in RTV contributions, in fact RTV subscriptions. I'm glad you haven't been able to unify yourself in the coalition since then in order to eliminate what we voted on the committee. I think that this is the right way to keep the contribution down until even the public institution of RTV is cutting all reserves and doing business rationally and operating with these funds, as it is available to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u49	Nice greetings, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fifth financial year is under way when Slovenia faces an economic crisis, which ultimately has major consequences in our public finances. If, in 2009, 2010, 2011 in Slovenia, we did not look back on this crisis and we joyfully doubled the public debt from eight to sixteen billion and all the consequences of this increased public debt, last May there was a great battle between the coalition and the opposition around Zujf and at the end of the budget rebalancing for last year. Last year, the government, which was composed of the then coalition, took the situation seriously for the first time and tried to look the truth in the eye with individual measures and also started by reducing public spending and, on the other hand, reducing public debt. Some of these effects were later eliminated through various lawsuits. However, when the current government coalition and the government reappeared in Parliament this year with the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, and today with the law on budget implementation, we see another picture. If we were aware last year that we have to react ourselves, I feel increasingly that we are here today in Parliament mainly because you still think in the government coalition that we have to react because of Europe, not because of the reality that Slovenia is in. I support what colleague Vizjak has also said about VAT. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have constantly considered and insisted that this is the last, extreme measure, when all measures on the other hand will be exhausted, which are the result of a reduction in public expenditure. The agreement was solemnly signed yesterday, initialled, now that we are looking at the effects of this agreement and the implications for public finances, we see that this year results in the effects of last year's measures, which will apply throughout the year. It was very shy to try to cut into new reduction measures and, finally, with the possibility that 2% of the costs of material costs and service costs could be overrun, this effect will virtually be eliminated to a large extent. This is also a discriminatory attitude towards those ministries that have been working intensively in recent years to reduce public spending, especially I think it will have to be said that once again the state administration, the larger part of the state administration, the ministry has been seriously confronted with this problem, has also achieved some savings, but other public financial consumers are very concerned about the situation and with such or other methods also want to keep the state in which we are, and in this way also prevent improvements in the functioning of the public sector itself. We welcome this accumulation of wage classes, and the other things in the area of wages we think are too ambitious and certainly do not reflect this requirement or expectation that two thirds of savings or consolidation will be made on the expenditure side and one third on the income side. As far as RTV contribution is concerned, we also support the fact that last year the agreed reduction remains that this contribution does not increase, because we are in such a small way reaching into the wallet of each of the citizens and citizens, and this agreement, which was concluded between the unions and between the government, is very controversial and I can say ethically and morally controversial, provides that those in the public sector who are members of the trade unions who signed this agreement will receive up to 20% of the major jubilee awards and solidarity aids. But this seems to me like a totally perverted act, and I think it's also kind of corrupt and morally problematic in some way. Just as it is clear that if you carefully analyse this policy, it is morally and ethically unacceptable for our children to leave these debts and I firmly believe that, to the greatest extent, the union that has led this battle now with the government side, besides looking at those who are working in education, we should also think about the children they teach, because they are the ones who will be paying the price of this wrong economic policy in the coming years, decades.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In addition, Mr Aloj Potočnik and Mrs Marija Plevčak also applied for the presentation of the views of the groups. First of all, Mr Alojzij Potočnik, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u51	Your Honor! About three weeks ago, the President of the Government briefed the National Assembly on the assessment of the state of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. The content of this document, which deals with both the revenue and expenditure sides of the State budget, shows that changes in individual budget items are to be expected sooner or later. In times of crisis, forecasts are ungrateful and unreliable. Let me illustrate this with two examples. In 2007, the economy grew much more than predicted, and in 2009 no institution forecasted a drop in gross social product by 8%. Not the most reputable. The victim of premature optimism, to which many of us have warned last year to recall the debate on the so-called reality of the budget, which means the victims of optimism were also the 2013 budget. Today, it is already more or less clear that the corporate income tax will be less, the value added tax will be less, the grey economy tax will be less, so at the same time almost €1.4 billion of European funds will be generated. I doubt it, but I hope so. In such situations, action on both the expenditure side and budget revenues is essential – mainly due to the smooth implementation of the budget. This is the focus of public attention, both professional and interested, on value added tax and on raising the general and lower rates. Indirect taxes were operated on by the last two governments in the crisis. Especially strong was the pressure on excise duties. For 2013, the former government has to some extent combined the revenue and expenditure side measures. We could list the taxes she proposed. In view of the fact that there are negative effects, whether rapid consolidation or slow consolidation, it makes sense to combine the measures to reduce expenditure with the measure to increase indirect taxes. Of course, the situation of the economy in the cycle — not to be overlooked — is important, however, whether the economy is recovering or the economic activity is shrinking. In this context, the measure of increased value added tax rates is primarily a support measure to other policies, in particular those aiming at economic growth and new jobs. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will also support the amendments of the coalition to the amended proposal of the Law to Articles 10 and 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you, too. Marija Plevčak will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you for your word and a very warm greeting to all present. As a rule, the technical law governing the implementation of the budget shall be adopted at the time of consideration and adoption of the budget itself. The deterioration of the situation and the almost critical necessity of taking the necessary austerity measures now require the amendment of this law. The news we support in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners refers to the possibility of redistribution of funds, to a more appropriate arrangement of prepayments, and the essential news relates to the outcome of agreements between the Government and representative unions. This is a reduction in the hospital allowance from 90 % to 80 %; it is a lower level of regression for 2014; it is a frozen promotion; it is also a reduction in the supplementary pension premium. We also support these proposals in the DeSUS Group of Members, as rationalisation in the public sector is urgently needed. The most important changes will be those relating to the higher RTV contribution and to the rise of both the general and the lower rates of value added tax. With regard to the amount of RTV contribution, we discussed it long and wide last December when a reduction in the contribution was proposed with a view to reducing the cost of living for citizens. The analysis showed that this caused problems in the operation of RTV, while not affecting the status of citizens. We therefore propose that corrective measures should be implemented as soon as possible on RTV, which has also been imposed by the Court of Auditors. With regard to the increase in the VAT rate, we were also skeptical in the DeSUS Group whether it was an effective measure that would transfer the expected revenue to the state budget. We have also weighed the arguments for and against the introduction of an increase. The conclusions favour the reasons given by the Government, but this does not mean that we blindly deny the weaknesses of this measure. The experience of other countries that have increased this tax shows that expectations were too optimistic and that they did not run into the government bag as much as they predicted. We are also skeptical about the burden of the socially weakest layer. The VAT burden is precisely the latter, these are people who cannot save anything and spend all their income on their living needs. The wealthier have savings, but they do not pay a single cent of VAT, so it is worth noting that the tax hike heavily burdens pensioners with the lowest pensions, the unemployed and the workers with the minimum wage. Nor can it be expected that the economy will absorb this increase. On the contrary. It will certainly be fully reduced to higher prices, which reduces the income available to the population. There is a fear that this measure will have a negative impact on the economy, on job losses, which will also indicate greater pressure on social transfers. We don't deny it, and we say it out loud. But what do we have left? Does anyone have any better ideas? They are criticisms and no one makes concrete proposals. However, we expect government activity and quick solutions and assistance to the economy. I know that within two months this government cannot solve all the accumulated problems, because we know that the crisis has been going on for five years and we probably all bear part of the blame for the situation. In the DeSUS Group, we will confirm the complementary proposal in the hope that the fears expressed will not come true and that they will carry out the assessments of government financial experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for your presentation on the Group's position. We have also concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment to this Article, which has been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? He does. I'm asking you to report to the debate. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on Article 10 states that we should expect a more extensive explanation of why RTV's contribution should be raised to the level set out for 2012. At the time of the adoption of ZIPR or before the end of 2012, we called for an urgent meeting of the Committee to discuss financial guarantees for the independence of RTV and for programme autonomy. Because these two are connected. Only a stable source of funding ensures the autonomy and independence of the public service. And then the session was ended the way it was ended, and it was interrupted. Finally, an RTV contribution or a reduced RTV contribution of only 5% was raised in ZIP. Nevertheless, the Programme Council has found that some programming content will also need to be transformed into some programme content if it is to ensure a sufficiently high quality public service delivery. I would advise everyone to review what is written in the scope of the public service of RTV Slovenia. This is not just an information programme, it is also an original art programme, it is the content for specific target groups of the audience, these are the content that is generally not designed by commercially oriented media houses themselves. This was also a time in which a number of pressures on the public service of RTV could be observed. The fact was that the public was then inclined to remain RTV contributions at the same level. With the amendment tabled, the RTV contribution shall be returned to the level set before the reduction. In particular, let me say that RTV contributions are exempt from a particularly vulnerable group of socially disadvantaged people, that they are disabled people who do not pay RTV contributions, that they are public institutions of the type of school, homes for the elderly and so on. That is to say, all those who, given their contributions, would be greatly affected by the lack of quality public service, as we would like to say, in their right to information. The SDS likes to talk about the constitutional right to information. And I also say that the right to culture is also a right not only to aboriginal shows that can ever be traced to a yellow-type medium. Well, so it seems to me that this amendment actually fulfils what is necessary and necessary for all of us as those who are committed to public action. In fact, the provision, once again, of a high-quality public service. It's not about populism, it's not about any misrepresentation of data like we did when there was a talk about what the BC is doing and so on. It is a relatively small number of addressees, two million of us are alone, and the weakening of RTV contributions is a major intervention in public funds. Some other activities may also be financed from the RTV contribution, provided that they are specifically defined by the RTV Act. What preinterpretations of certain statements have been used, let me just say two. The Court of Auditors' report relates to 2009 and 2010, and corrective measures were taken; at the time, the Director was someone other than the current Director, Mr Guzei. It is also true that the Court of Auditors has also pointed out the irregularities in advertising and the acquisition of funds from market activities. Not to mention how the performance of the Director of RTV Slovenia was misused at the recent session of the Commission for Budgetary Control. These are all the reasons why I'm going to support [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you for discussing the mags. Majdi Potrato. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment, which is proposed, for reasons which my predecessor has already said. We are currently discussing the report of the RTV Supervisory Board on the Committee on Culture. We have also discussed it on the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and the report of the Supervisory Committee follows a number of things that we will have to clear up first if we are to arrange some things on RTV as well. In the papers, you could read about an anonymous person circling what's going on on RTV. An anonymous person is now being checked, and an external auditor is ordered to look into it and see whether or not they're holding things. But what the Supervisory Board has already checked, it's experimental to find that they're holding all the anonymous stuff. What does it say in anonymity? To pay for broadcasts that have never been paid through a student service for people who do not work or have not performed it to have a whole bunch of mood problems that count once, some work more hours a day than they have a day, and so on. I think until we clear these things up and settle them, there's no point in giving more money to spend it like that. By what you propose, you will do exactly that: we will give RTV management more money to avoid spending it transparently. Director Filli said that they really have problems with the organization or with the powers that individual authorities have to make relatively independent decisions about travel tasks and everything else. That's why he doesn't have the kind of control he should have. He said that they were already trying to reorganize these old ones or in this sense to reorganize themselves. That's why I think, given what we know, and I think most people know, because we read the reports, we probably read the newspapers, at least, what would be the point where the RTV contribution goes up. In addition, the Director said that they were not making a loss, which is true, because when they were running out of money, they sold some of Eutelsat's shares, which, of course, were intended for development projects, and they also used them to act on the opposite side, which is not right. This is also noted by the Supervisory Committee and this was also a matter of finding the Court of Auditors. I think we can accept such an amendment and we can't do it until these things are cleared up. The external independent auditor will be hired. He said that yesterday in response to our Member of Parliament, Minister of Culture. The results of the audit will be known within three months. And then we'll decide if we'll give RTV some more money to spend it like that. This morning, we spoke to the Committee on Internal Policy, including colleagues from the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, saying very much how we need to start doing and managing things and so on. That's the first step. Let them set things up on RTV, and then we'll give them the money if they need it. As long as they spend money on broadcasts that they don't have, on passengers to people who don't have employees and so on, I don't think we can give them those funds. I am also surprised that, on the Committee on Finance, the representatives of the Civil Gazette, DeSUS, because they were familiar with these findings that I have just made, they have decided not to support the contribution of RTV. So far, they've changed their minds. I guess someone had to call, so we had one break and so on. But I am surprised that the Members of the National List and DeSUS are now convinced that an RTV contribution should be raised. That's such a ruse. You were still talking about making things right this morning, and then we'll make a decision about it. In a few hours, you think differently. This will be rewarded by the electorate and the electorate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thanks for the debate. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Let him understand who can. It's probably hard for anyone else in this country, except those in power who run this country. If we made a decision a while ago and kept the RTV subscription as it was, you have now decided to give them more money after all these burkas, which are also happening around RTV. On the one hand, we are talking about saving, on the other hand, how to create conditions for the economy, the environment for the economy and for investors, investors and so on, what needs to be done to start increasing jobs, not shrinking from day to day. Now you come up with a proposal to raise the RTV subscription again. This was agreed with the RTV leadership at a time when we were members of the government coalition to reduce our initiative by 5% and not by 10%, as originally planned. Today, to say that you are doing this because it gives us quality public service – with all the affairs, with all the reports of the Court of Auditors, with all the irregularities that are taking place. Or you explain to yourself, respected members and members of the government coalition, that quality public service is that someone from politics calls for RTV leadership and says that Korošec will no longer report for six months because he critically reports on the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. You may notice that I deliberately do not use what is called a name before the name and that it is now a payment for such a journalist, but not just, of course, it is an example that yes, God forbid, it will ever happen again and again. So that this won't happen again, you agreed to get more money. This is a good public service for the government coalition. You will work and report as we continue to tell you and allow what you can and cannot do. Perhaps that is why matters about reporting to the most privileged or with the highest ratings of the minister in today’s government — Dr. Viranta — have also waned. Neither is any major reporting of one of the best paid officials in this country. This is certainly the most famous and important man in this country, because the country stands or falls with him, unionist, Mr Strukelj. There's nothing about him either. By the way, Minister Virant or so I will say, the most paid official and minister with the best ratings have agreed that if John is not a member of the union, he will get 20% less in certain matters, both jubilee awards and, of course, God forbid anything happens to him. This is now your high-quality public medium. That's what you're talking about, and that's why you're giving 5% to citizens and citizens, and you're taking it. It doesn't matter, the euro. But the euro per month. Everyone's squandering, but you don't think that's important. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Each horse "paint" and, of course, pay this well enough. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you. The following is Mrs Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. If it wasn't funny, it would be sad. And it is sad that when I listen to these discussions, I feel increasingly that I am in the village of the inn, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to discuss matters that are serious, not on the basis of some anonymities, some newspaper articles, some rumors and all that. Excuse me, by this logic, then your SDS client should not be receiving any contributions from the state budget because she is suspected of receiving bribes in the Patria case. Then we could solve other similar matters in the same logic. Some principal at a primary school or an accountant at a primary school does something wrong and is talking about it, nothing has been proven whether it is true or not. And then we're going to say, "No, but we're not going to give money to this elementary school." Don't joke. Look, we're talking about paying back 0.64 euros in contributions to an individual for an RTV contract. And it's not like there's a subscription without connection, it's the public service of all the citizens of this country. And let's remember what this money is about. Not only to inform about domestic and foreign events, but also to highlight foreign events, commercial television reports only through foreign agencies about world events. The only public service ensures to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that we have our correspondents in key cities in Europe, where they tell us things of particular interest to our country. As already stated by my colleague Potrat, culture, we have nowhere else to transmit the key major cultural events that this country has through public service; educational programmes, and let us not forget, colleagues and colleagues, religious programmes. Religious programmes are also provided by this public service. And we could also list and now we're going to have a problem with 0.64 euros. And let's think of something else. When did you decide to lower this in 2011? That's when you were preparing your client service. Then you decided that because the SDS no longer needed a public service because he was preparing his TV with the work of public television staff. After the whole financial thing didn't go together, you sold it to the Greeks. And don't get carried away, it's a television that needs our help. But I am firmly convinced and I support all those who say that it is necessary to look at what are the net accounts. If anyone, any official body, discovers irregularities on the RTV service, they must be punished for this. Not that all citizens and all citizens of this Slovenia are being punished, who should not be looking at quality programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Tanko's procedurally has it, if I have it right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that there is a debate on the RTV amendment, not on the financing of political parties. And given that you are very sensitive to the discussions of my colleagues from the SDS when someone is talking about the non-issue of the agenda, I would suggest that you are equally sensitive, it would be good if you were even more concerned with your coalition partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. I must admit that I listened carefully to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's discussion, which really began with the topic of newspaper anonymities or anonymous messages, and then another group presented another association. In the context of these discussions there has been an exchange of views. However, I agree with you that it is more appropriate for us to stay with Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10, which discusses the monthly contribution to public broadcasting and will be much better for discussions after we do not use other associations. But this has been happening in these debates. Would you like an extra procedure, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. One is if someone is talking about an anonymous person who is involved in the operation of the public service of RTV, for whom you are now collecting an allowance of EUR 5 million with this amendment, another is if someone is talking about an anonymous person who concerns a purely different area. I have no problem with not understanding the context, nor do my colleagues. But whoever's in charge of the session needs to understand it. And that's all I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. I see that there is still a desire to discuss, so I am opening up the possibility of applying for a debate on Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10. I give my word to Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I hope we are all aware that Slovenians and Slovenians are in a state where they are very difficult to tolerate in Slovenia, when they are day to day worrying about how they will survive not only a month, but also a week, and that much means every cent to them. But not just when some say 0.64 euros, but it doesn't mean anything to anyone. It's not just these 0.64 euros, it's very much between us that we can be aware that if it's a war, it's a war for everyone. If there is a crisis, let us all be solidarity. No one is going to tell me that they can't do much more rational work on RTV without canceling any broadcast or making the quality of these shows worse. If someone knows the work of commercial televisions and our public broadcasts, you will be able to share with me the opinion that their organisation or efficiency is very, very different and that there is no comparison here. The more effective they can be on commercial televisions, the more rational they are, the more transparent they are on public television. And here's the anonymous ones that just came out again, look, they're not even anonymous, they're public secrets. This can actually be heard all the time, and there is also a lot of evidence, and there has been a lot of blindness about the many anomalies that are present on RTV. There's no telling why they're financing broadcasts that aren't worth millions of dollars to go to the studio. Not to mention the many seemingly or fictitiously employed people on RTV. And we could count it. I will only give an example 15 years ago, because my previous job was such that I had contact with field workers who were preparing broadcasts outside the centre of Slovenia, Ljubljana. You won't believe it, for the same transmission of one broadcast, in the case that it was transmitted by commercial television was two or three, everything worked without problems, but when a similar transmission was prepared by RTV, they came with two vans of people so that they couldn't even count themselves, but we found them everywhere, just not where they were supposed to be. But don't think that matters are so different today. I myself am proposing that this contribution rises again, and I will not support it, and I hope that it will also be in the other coalition parties, which you have already identified, through your debate, very correctly, that any cent that a family can save. extremely important, not only in financial terms, but also in symbolic terms. What bothers me in particular is that it may be the subject of a strike request or unions, that they dictate in their negotiations that RTV will have to make a contribution. Why did they not negotiate that the prices of medicinal products should be raised or lowered or the prices of some tickets or utility services? Or the price of electricity? With what right can the union negotiate here the price of an RTV contribution, which I can say in a second word, is a tax, a compulsory tax. And don't tell me that those people who have trouble spending the month are interested in why they have to pay so much. Let us behave properly here, especially in solidarity with those who are most in need of such assistance or solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u69	I will support this amendment. But I will support him mainly because I have to say that I'm really surprised, that I'm being misdirected, and I'm probably going to be forced to listen for a while. One thing is clear and works the difference between commercial television and the national programme and the national public agency, which we have very clearly defined in the law. And you just can't evaluate that. We cannot say that every commercial television is the one with which the competition on the market will compete in the public service RTV. And the mistake is that ten years ago this television agreed to this logic to compete with them and somehow wants to be liked by viewers what it will offer them. In this way we will agree that we will have only Hollywood films and it has gone so far as to achieve the same level of advertising as commercials, who are actually living with only this and nothing else. That's why they have this contribution. We have made it very clear in the law what they actually have to cover and commercial television does not cover. They cover two national television programmes, three national radio programmes, a radio and television programme of regional centres in Koper and Maribor, one radio and television programme for the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and a radio and television programme for the Roma ethnic community, a radio and television programme for Slovenian ethnic minorities in neighbouring countries, and for Slovenian emigrants and emigrants, on whom some like to refer and continue to say how much something needs to be done for them. Stop talking about teams because you've never worked on Radiotelevision and it's changed a lot in ten, fifteen years. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about those who commented about it. And what's more important than that is that someone nonchalantly dropped this contribution just because he didn't like the public office and because he didn't like the studio. He was talking about 300,000, and you were talking about millions today — the renovation of the studio. Yes, of course, because you're saying numbers in your head. Take the paper into your hands and calculate what it really means. What is important to me is very important, and I will ask this television to continue to be implemented, and these are special educational programs. Programmes that no commercial television gives. For the disabled, for the blind, for the children with special needs. Where does this program come from on any other commercial television? It's an educational program. That's what we're paying for with this contribution, and you took it away. What am I afraid of? I fear that when this contribution is reduced, it will first be saved on these programmes. What is right and what is wrong is why we have a lead on television that has to organise this, not MPs in the National Assembly, who keep saying what one team must look like, how many recorders must be there and how many not. That's why it's all one simple demagogy you're doing. Let's listen to what you're saying. Another year ago, you were saying something completely different. You wanted to lead in any way to the point that the national programme would be reduced to the end. "Fertik", he's gone. That was your goal. And we just can't let that happen. But you have a second option, propose a law, you're used to it, and say it's all "out of the summer". And then we're on commercial television, and then we don't need it anymore, and we just stop the whole contribution, and we don't have any more contributions. You should do that, and then I would really believe you want to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At a time when the current government is squandering income for all categories of the population, when it introduces enormous cadastral incomes for the taxation of farmers, when, in fact, all citizens have to pay for the greed of some dedicated persons, and the current authority in some area does not provide for cuts or status quo, but is governed by the classic law on dogma of agitprop, which was introduced in those days, that everything is allowed for propaganda. You can't run out of money for propaganda. And look, very quickly, your government has begun to introduce incredible enormous measures to protect the image of the Prime Minister. I'm sure the authorities have ordered that a journalist who was a little critical of the President of the Government should be sanctioned. Responsible editor Ksenija Horvat Petrovčič called Maribor for immediate action. And that this is an official policy of this option, previously confirmed in its debate by colleague Klasinc. In fact, she said if anyone discovers irregularities on RTV, whoever did this must be punished. The journalist Korošec is guilty of your actions and is already being punished. You're applying the strictest, harshest method of disciplining journalists. That's what you said, yes. I wrote down your quote: "If anyone discovers irregularities on RTV, the guilty person must be punished." And responsible editor Ksenija Petrovčič – it is also confirmed that she said, "If the field editor does not act, I will act on my own." So she found the culprit. Years ago, one of Mr Mershol's successors came after the then President of the Government with a vicious swearing. With a mean swear word! And he was still honored, rewarded, a respected member of the press and so on. Double scales! All in the interest of protection and propaganda own options. These are the unheard of things that are happening today. This has not yet happened that a ministerial president would practically require the full submission of journalists and only positive affirmative reporting during the second month of his reign. Everything else is an irregularity to be punished. However, from the same option, you continued to proclaim what dictator the former Prime Minister was. And they could afford swearing and everything on his account. Everything was allowed. And that there will be as many advocates as possible that this policy of yours will be as successful as possible, that these criteria will be respected as possible, in a time of dry cows, when all citizens are being taken, when so many people are already in poverty, there is a need to increase their contribution to television. Yeah, let's keep it the same in all areas. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you. The replica has Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to use a replica which is intended to misinterpret the allegations. To explain once again, I doubt that Mr Jerovšek would really not understand, but I think he has again abused our rich debate in the National Assembly in the way of his theories. I said that if, not anyone, but the competent authorities found out – and this would prove – that anyone is guilty, I am responsible for punishing these people. Competent authorities, not anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for explaining that. The next one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to point out that this solution, which is enshrined in the law on the implementation of the budget, is non-systemic. The Budget Implementation Act is governed only by the operation of budget consumers, not RTV, which is a non-budgetary user. Unfortunately, I see that this is no longer a problem for the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and they allow the correction of the mistake of former Minister Majda Shirca, who has enacted the law on RTV and now you are implementing it through an non-systemic solution. The second thing I would point out is that the wages for all civil servants are reduced by 5%, including for those who are employed on RTV, and these are 900 regular employees, and about 400, 500 per hour. And these are also subject to a reduction in weight by minus 5 %. At the same time, you are coming with an RTV correction plus 5%. In some ways, it is said that there will be a disproportionate amount of 8 or 10 % in RTV and some of the available resources under this heading. As a result of the reduced contribution, RTV did not operate any worse and with no greater problems than it did when it had a 5% higher contribution. And now that wages are falling everywhere, even on RTV, you are raising the contribution of RTV. I think that's a solution that's completely incompatible with what you're saying. The Court of Auditors' report showed that there are many errors in the operation of the RTV office, many abuses to abuse student travel fees for regular employees, to pay extra hours and so on. It has signs of systemic corruption. By allowing RTV contributions to rise, even though wages in RTV are falling, you are upgrading the possibility of systemic corruption in RTV. I think you need to think about these things. And before anything is done, there should be an audit in this television house and also a program to remedy irregularities. However, not only do you adopt solutions that pour an additional EUR 5 million into the public service budget of the television station. It is also disputed that you have negotiated to raise an RTV contribution for my two completely unfit persons. The Minister of the Interior shall not be responsible for the RTV contribution. Also, unions in RTV cannot perform business functions. But that doesn't bother anyone in this house. It's a quiet way to get these things out of the way. The director was very surprised when he found out he was going to increase his RTV contribution, he didn't count on that. I must say, in this country, it is working in this mandate or in this government in some strange way. The question arises what this RTV contribution will be spent on. Does anyone have a clear answer? Madam Government Representative, what will be the increased RTV contribution for? To improve the image of the coalition? For not getting married that much or anything about Mr. Virant who has a whole bunch of stuff? In order to reward those who do not report too badly or inappropriately on the President of the Government and other coalition MPs? I ask for an answer as to what the RTV contribution will be used for. This is the government, if it proposes a solution, it is obliged to respond. And one more thing. What we're talking about is actually typical of this coalition. When one is said, you are talking about saving, about cuttings in the public sector, and you are proposing a solution that does not mean saving, but means upgrading consumption in the public sector. The only one who just saved up is Mr Virant. To all other citizens, two million, you will, with his help and his successful negotiations, increase the cost of living. That's very double-faced.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you. The next person who has the floor is Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. It is obvious that we will be blocking RTV now with today's session, but regardless of whether I was a member of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and it has been said a hundred times that the period has been reviewed that this was the period 2009-2010, that Mr Guzei, the director who publicly told on television that he was a car salesman, had no idea about RTV at the time of this function. These are the facts. And that Filli, I'm not his lawyer, is taking corrective measures to pay back money that's been overpaid in personal income and I don't know what. And I don't know anything about anonymity, but if anything's going on, normally, things have to be arranged. We have law enforcement agencies, and so on, the control council, the institution's world, and let them handle their own. Therefore, there is no need to destroy the activity. Look, the RTV contribution won't apply, I hope not to the new technology, because now they've got some training and they're doing just fine. But I'm asking you, when was the last time a literary matter of Slovenian literature was recorded? When was the recording of a follow-up to our history? Will we just watch, as it has been said, that on some other televisions, American televisions, and other sequels? Education programmes have been mentioned. RTV also finances the Big Band Symphony Orchestra and so on, because we know all this. It all costs, it all has to be, thank God we have. When we're played and enjoyed in the Congress Square, yes, if your leader isn't there, then you're gone, but mostly we always are, and we're fine. I don't think this money will go for wages, because we're talking about wages in general, we're all going to go down with wages to produce, to new content, and it's going to come from this that we're going to watch as few old sequels as possible on TV in Slovenia as we've ever had to be, but not as often as they have been in the last period. Maybe someone's on their way to this echo show, and that kind of critical stuff. Those who ask the same sharp all: left, right, middle, black, white. I will support this amendment, and I hope that we can fix this mistake until RTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you, too. There's still a desire to discuss it. Does the government want a word? Ma'am mag. Matthew the Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Given the specific question raised, otherwise I fear it has been rhetorical, but allow me a brief answer. RTV Slovenia is a public institution. The public institution shall operate in accordance with its financial plan, which must be drawn up in accordance with the applicable legislation, as regards RTV, in particular in accordance with the RTV Act. And I expect or can't be any different than that the revenue that the public agency will get from the subscription will be spent in accordance with the financial plan. As you know, the government does not accept the financial plan of this public institution, but this financial plan is adopted by the competent authorities of the institution itself. However, let me point out that, under the RTV Act, the subscription is intended, inter alia, for specific programmes, for specific programmes for national minorities, for special solutions or for the financing of independent television and film production and, last but not least, for regional radio and television programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for your answers, too. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. A replica? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. This answer from the Secretary of State is not satisfactory. If in the negotiation process you agreed on a 5% increase in the RTV contribution, then you probably had to have a specification for why this contribution would go, why does RTV need it. RTV has adopted a financial plan for 2013. And that's all I asked you to do is explain to me exactly what matters this RTV contribution will be spent on, given that it was financially accepted for this year. What are the extras going to do? Today no minister, no secretary of state, has explained this, this is not part of the ESS, as we have seen, and so on. What's this gonna be about? Wages are reduced in RTV, the mass of wages is also about 5%. This is said to be about, I don't know, two billion or two and a half billion extra savings on cost work. Two and a half million Euros of savings are added to this system, five million Euros with this increase, and how are you going to spend this 7.5 million or 8 million Euros? What projects are the ones that need this? If you are voting on an RTV contribution, fellow Members, then you need to know for what purposes, or it's just something that pours somewhere and then runs with various orders, arranges, non-projects and so on out of the system and crying on the other hand that money is gone. Is this gonna be a TV 3 program? There are some lawyers here, some economists, we have the Ministry of Finance, we have a chief negotiator, and I want someone to explain it specifically. That's why we need a million euros, 300 grand, for that, so much and so much, we'll know why this RTV contribution is going to go. That's like, I'm 5%, there's 2%, there's a million, there's two, that's not going. You came here with a concrete project, raising VAT by 5%, but without an appropriate explanation. Not knowing why it's going to work, just because you think it's nice. And otherwise, you can't even explain these re-submissions of this amendment just to have a nice artistic impression on RTV. I would like to see what you will finance with this and also with the savings that will take place due to the reduction of wages on RTV. That's what the Secretary of State should say. If we don't, let's stop the session so we can get an answer and then we'll continue when the conditions for this are met. They're not right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you. There was a desire for further discussion, so I am opening up the possibility of applications. I give my word to Mr. Jerk Chekovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u83	I wouldn't even answer, but I have to, I'm not from your party. It's just that we're talking about something that doesn't even belong in the National Assembly. We've sent our representatives to the RTV Programme Council, we've got people on the Human Control Board, and let's ask them how and what. Here in Parliament, we will redefine the content of RTV and determine what journalists should write and what to say. Well, that's ridiculous. Today, by the way, there was a lot of debate about someone from the coalition calling someone, although Mr Pukšič and Mr Jerovšek were not in line because Pukšič said that the Prime Minister had called, Jerovšek said that the editor of the information ideas had called. The debate is totally unrelated, for, as I am aware, Mrs Pivcheva has already cancelled all measures against Mr Korosc today. Again, we are discussing something that has no consequences at this time. But it's not like that, it's just nice to discuss, and these discussions are just going. Again, I say, in ZIPRO – here I agree with Mr Tank – this provision came without connection. And we should make sure that this goes out as soon as possible and that Parliament does not deal with these matters. By the way, one more thing, but I can count so much, this thing became a problem last year in the adoption of the budget or the ZIPR. Mrs Janja Klasinc already spoke about the reasons, when someone felt good, let us give a little more public service to RTV Slovenia, and let us take a little bit and we will see how they do what they will do. Even then there was no analysis, we had nothing known how it works, but we cut it so easily. And today when it comes back, so it doesn't increase, but it's going back to the same price, I'm going to say, I'm going to say, we're acting and we're also having this discussion, it's not going to increase by 5%, it's going back to the height that it already was. Again, all this debate today is a complete waste of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you. Replica, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Comrade Chehovin said, or a little differently, that he was referring to me, as I myself said, and that this was irrelevant. But it was in that statement Mrs Polone Pivec said that she had been called by Mrs Ksenija Horvat Petrovčič and demanded action. I also said that, and I insist on this, and I have so much political sense that the protection of the character and the work of the Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, began extremely quickly. So early, no prime minister demanded the obedience of the press. So early in the reigning phase and for such a minor matter. I find that you have now come to realize that this is completely unreasonable, excessive, against all standards, that this is an attack on freedom of speech and that now, through the same broadcasts, it has occurred that the field editor should withdraw the measures, but this has happened. This foolish act has happened. And here I was no different from Mr. Puksich. I know it came through the channels of power, through channels of political power, through the interest in keeping the press quiet. This calls for a strong commitment on the other hand to the media and journalists by increasing their contributions, i.e. the search for alliances. And this game is so transparent, it's actually visible from afar and it's hard to defend itself that it's not completely produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. The next debater is Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u87	President, thank you very much for your word. I didn't even mean to debate today, but when you hear all that today, you need to take a little notice. First of all, I would like to say that I am really surprised at the double game of Positive Slovenia. On the one hand, they are seduced by turbo capitalism in the Municipality of Ljubljana, defending 250 euro credits, and now it tells us what is in the public interest. Mrs Klasinc used to talk about little things or how little you need to pay, only a good 60 cents more. Apparently, she's doing well, and I invite her to come to our places where a lot of people are not doing so well. As I said before, this is a good place for many people, but the innkeepers, as Mrs Klasinc has said before, will definitely not succeed with the tax rise. I used to read about fees at the public institute of RTV Slovenia for the month of October. For the project work was the highest fee of EUR 6 000 452 gross, and one individual received a fee of EUR 5 thousand 152 gross for conducting TV broadcasts and synchronizing cartoons. It's okay. It's good pay. Among regular employees, there are many journalists paying between EUR 3 000 850 and EUR 3 000 700 gross. To further address the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which gave a negative opinion on the report on the functioning of the public institution RTV Slovenia. Today, we are voting on taking EUR 5 million out of our empty pockets from citizens and citizens and putting them in a black hole full of intransparency and irregularities. It's all right, but we're very brave or you are. In the SDS Group and I believe that there are enough internal reserves at the public institution of RTV Slovenia to avoid making the effort they should have made, in the final stage of this crisis everyone contributed their share, and now we will give them a reward for bad work. Once again, courage is square. The parent working body did not support raising the monthly RTV subscription by 5%. But now apparently the government coalition has grabbed someone and squeezed them into a corner, and apparently they will now have to vote, not at will, but at the will of the bosses. I must say that I do not support these measures that we are talking about today. In fact, we will give RTV one really such a beautiful symbolic award: keep working, don't bother saving. I don't know, I don't know how to walk down the street tomorrow, but you obviously don't have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you, too. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thanks again. For those of you who are yelling at us and a little less than threatening us, let me say that we are not canceling the RTV contribution and we are not canceling any broadcasts. In our mandate, we have introduced even one additional programme, the third parliamentary channel, and tomorrow we will celebrate the fifth anniversary of this year. What I was talking about was that I could read in the report of the Supervisory Committee and in the review of the conclusions and in the agreement on the report that was subsequently sent. The anonymity I have mentioned is also mentioned here because the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, forwarded it to the RTV Institute and asked them to do something. And it's not a bar debate, it's something that the competent institution needs to respond to. And that's why we're dealing with it. When I asked the Commission on the supervision of Director Filli's public finances whether they met the advertising quotas, i.e. the advertising funds are falling year after year, it means that someone is not doing their best, well, some of his own also does the crisis, he said they are not meeting the quota. So many people can have more ads, but they don't. There's probably a backup if we try hard, and he also said they're working on trying to sell packages and so on. The Finance website says once again that Mr Filli said he does not need an increase in the RTV contribution. And my colleague Tanko already said he was surprised when he found out that the RTV contribution would be increased. In February 2013, we were able to read in the Slovenian news about the high fees on RTV. Something about this was said by my friend Chuš. We don't have a problem with that. We are aware that in the RTV house there are a thousand 900 regular employees and about 600 fees. The director said that they are trying to replace employees who are leaving for retirement with fees, even those who have been working with RTV for ten years or more. You know that some have received lawsuits because they have sued RTV because they extend contracts and do not hire them, but they should be under the Labour Relations Act. All we want is to find out about the irregularities, to eliminate these irregularities. Then, if it turns out that the money is too little, you can also think about giving more money to the RTV office. Until we have a clear picture of what's going on with the tips, what's going on with the pushups, and so on, that's what Director Filli said about the problem and that he has to fix it, and we'll either wait and see if we can get some money back to work on it. These things began to be regulated only because they had to face certain things, including less resources. I wouldn't, otherwise I'd have gone on a caravan and run things the way they've been. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr Happy Meh has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u91	Good-bye, after all! It should be said that those who do not know or do not know that the public institution of RTV has problems, perhaps we do not live or live in this world. All the time since the RTV subscriber decreased, we know that the programs are distorted, and we hear the cries of RTV's responsible that they can't implement the programs. Of course, we are talking about employees and salaries. The programs are run by employees, no one else, those who work there, people run them. The role of the National Assembly is to provide conditions for the public institution. These conditions are, in fact, the means and authorities that supervise the work of this institution. If anything is wrong, then let those responsible find out, not us, ladies and gentlemen. Don't tell me we're gonna talk about paying someone's salary or paying someone's fee too much. This should be determined by those who are competent, now. And if something's wrong, they should report it and make sure it doesn't happen. Of course, it is a perverse thing for individuals to say, first to arrange what is wrong, not to say exactly what is wrong, and then we will decide what the height of the RTV subscription should be and how to do it. We should be talking about content, content of work. And there was a talk about that today. And for this content we should also provide conditions so that we can work. I can't expect anyone today to tell me what the funds RTV is supposed to get for. Someone said today that the balance sheet or RTV budget consists of selling shares in a way that was critical. What else can they do, ladies and gentlemen? What they should do, such as try to put an end to it and allow at least those programs that we think or know we should be. And this content is less on RTV from month to month. And that's why it's right to provide them with conditions. To talk about how there should be more advertisements – yes, because they really can't be anymore than they already are. They're also on public television. And these ads, if we listen to the media, not RTV Slovenia, these ads are getting harder and those who advertise are not actually. It is therefore right to ensure normal conditions. But I think the most important thing to do is to oppose those who tried to link the lifting of the subscription to personal income. I strongly protest against it. The RTV Office is a public institution that must respect everything that has been adopted with regard to personal income. Of course, programmes must also be provided. And that's what all these funds have to be spent on, not on personal income, because to this day personal incomes have been paid in a way that is good or bad. However, the difference was only on the basis of programmes and content, which were therefore reduced. If we look at the programs, then we find that this is much less. I'll support the amendment. It seems to me that a journalist in this Slovenia said that the President of the Government did not say anything and I listened to her. It was necessary to understand and be honest when you listen to what the one who is most responsible in our country is saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u92	The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, welcome! I will not support the amendment of the coalition to Article 10. That makes sense. On my parent's working body, I supported the amendment of the opposition or colleagues from the SDS, which prevented me from raising the RTV contribution and my conduct at the plenary session was then logical. Although I am a Member of all citizens and citizens after the constitution, do not blame me this time, I am thinking about my people from the country near Mura, where the employment rate or registered unemployment is about 20%. So, every fifth of active citizens doesn't have a job. And it's not easy to take half the euro. It's not easy. There's a lot of people on the road who don't have to pay their health insurance. That's 14 euros, but if it isn't, it's just not. I am here to defend the budget of Slovenian households. With the support of this amendment, I would like to give a blank menu to someone who will cash this bill and on this note will write, say, €5 million. And we don't know where that money's going today. Today there was also talk about religious shows. Yeah, they're at this institution. I am also pleased, first of all, that we adopted a new law on RTV Slovenia eight years ago and then introduced a parliamentary television channel. I must say that Members of New Slovenia are pleased with the television coverage of this channel, as far as our political activities are concerned. We're satisfied. We're not greedy. As far as editorials for the religious programme on Radio Slovenia are concerned, this is still not available, and I do not think it will be for a long time. That's the way it is. And religious freedom is one of the first human rights. Although on 24 January 2012 the director of Radio Slovenia spoke at the 17th regular session of the RTV Programme Council about the introduction of a new religious broadcast on Radio Slovenia. So it's been over a year, but it hasn't been broadcasting to this day. Despite bimedia editing, music editors do not play Slovenian spiritual music on Sundays and holidays tomorrow. Bimedia editorship is simply a release of fog. Why do they even need such an editorship when almost all contributions are being prepared for an information programme? All Europe carries out worship on the first programmes and has editorial offices for a religious programme with a programme programme, and spiritual music is not prohibited. The sad exception is Radio Slovenia. It is noticeable that Slovenian spiritual music is censored on the 1st programme, or all other types of domestic and foreign music. On Radio Slovenija, as far as religious content is concerned, Radio Slovenija has only three minutes of spiritual thought per week, three minutes per week, on the 3rd ADR programme 20 minutes per week broadcasts the 7th day and the transmission of Mass and Mass on Sundays and holidays, and usually some kind of interview, a discussion on the 3rd ADR programme. On the 1st Radio Slovenia programme, between 5 and 8 a.m. each day about 15 minutes only in time, and Christians receive 3 minutes of spiritual thought per week. Val 202 is 4 to 5 hours of clean sports on Saturdays and Sundays and so on. The director of Radio Slovenia said that Radio Slovenia’s 1st and 2nd programmes are their parade horse. What's programme three? And on the third program, if we do, we can find some religious content. So – will you do anything for editorial for the religious program on Radio Slovenia, a respected coalition? Thank you for doing something.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you, too. Is there still a desire to discuss or can we conclude a debate? There's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Before I give the floor, I would just like to clarify, given the question raised, whether there are conditions for us to discuss this today. Let me say that the word runs on Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10, which has been tabled by the four groups of Members, has all the elements, as well as an explanation which makes it very clear that the proposed amendment, by increasing the RTV contribution to the 2011 level, will allow the public institution to implement programmes that are otherwise implemented by the public institution alone and are not commercial in nature. If we know that Members should not be directly involved, if I may say so, in the programming scheme, because this is the influence of politics, the most possible thing in the explanation is to write down, in this sense, so that all the conditions really exist. First, I give my word in the new round of discussions to Mr Franco Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u95	President, thank you so much for your word. I'll try to follow the warning. Before that, I did not think in the direction of talking about other subjects. I'll try to be very brief on the RTV contribution. The memories are fresh not long ago when we discussed this topic in this Chamber in the then coalition, and some were of the opinion that in view of the situation in which Slovenia is, let us try to relieve our households by also reducing the RTV contribution. At the time, talks about 12 and several euros per household were reduced by 10%. Finally, there was a compromise solution and we agreed that this should be 50% of the proposed solution. At the time, I was thinking that maybe it wouldn't suggest reducing the RTV contribution. It is true that our households in the situation they are in need of every hundred, but I probably wouldn't know how much it has affected the household budget throughout the year. At that time, we also opened up issues regarding the findings of the Court of Auditors. I must say that today, in the National Assembly, I have listened to concerns about the situation on RTV and that it would appear that these things that appear there are also being corrected. Perhaps it would be a compromise solution if these shortcomings were resolved so that this contribution could also be raised. But you can't lose the feeling that there's a game of two halves, one raises, the other decreases. Then things turn around, and again others lift up, and then the next thing they go, they go down. When will we try to find compromise solutions in this national assembly? This is an open question to me. At this point, I do not yet know what I will do or vote in favour of the proposed solution, even though our Group of Members has signed this. I would gladly choose to press the "quorum" button, because I also did not support that proposal in the past about the reduction. We have found a compromise solution, and for a while, I think this compromise solution is the most real one. However, if there is some background that we do not know, then it would be good to make it public to know why we actually want to raise back to the former level of RTV contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you, too. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u97	Your Honor! In this Chamber, it has been said several times that during the crisis we are also discussing the limitation of expenditure, including self-restraint and cuts in various public sector systems, in particular civil servants' salaries and the like, and that it is crucial to have and adhere to the principles of some fairness, a measure of proportionality, that there is no exception in fact that all are given some proportionate measures. Today, there is talk about RTV and the RTV subscription, which, with all the cuts we are making elsewhere, is actually receiving an increase in contributions here, while the Court of Auditors' audit, not anyone, finds irregularities, respected Mr Meh. The Court of Auditors’ audit indicates that the reserves for salaries, damage to the institution’s assets, are said to be reserves here, while the Government, with new cuts in the salaries of public servants, provides them with additional money and does not know what this money will be spent on, says this increased contribution or increased subscription. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that we do not have the same vats for all subsystems of the public sector. That there's an RTV exception and I'm asking you why. You're hoping for some more cost-effective treatment of this public institution. What is the reason why this system is in some positive form of discrimination? RTV has adopted its financial plan. We received a statement last week from the Public Finance Supervisory Commission to assure the Director-General that the funds from the sale of shares are not spent on current business but only on development projects, although the Supervisory Board has little doubt about this. In the context of existing funds, although their advertising revenues have been reduced, they are somehow operating at a positive level and are still developing their activities by means of the sale of Eutelsat shares. I'm asking you where the reason is to give and cut bread here, this house, is really disproportionate to the visas of all the other subsystems that we're hitting. I think that this is a departure from this principle of justice and proportionality and that you are actually doing injustice here. That's one thing I want to say. The other thing is that I was very disappointed, in fact, that I could not explain why this increased contribution would take place. If I heard a commitment here or that the decision was so designed that the law would be so designed that this money would go to regional TV stations, for broadcasts that have this particular meaning for the population that inform local, regional audience, then I would understand, okay, we have crossed out these regional TV stations, for example, your channel is one such, VTV, Mr Meh you also know him very well, and so on. If that money were to be used for it, then one would understand. All right, now he's also worried about some broader local, regional information, and that's also a show of special importance, and actually, I would understand. It would probably be a little different in the SDS if that were the case. However, this raises the RTV contribution or subscription, the State Secretary said today on the committee that because the unions demanded it. Hello! So trade unions can also demand a reduction in electricity prices or utility prices or anything in this country. I have serious concerns about the meaning, correctness and fairness of the measures taken. First of all, RTV, like all public sector sub-systems, should look for some internal reserves – I was positively surprised because Director General Filli was aware of this problem and said there are still some reserves – and after seeing where we are, also influence this RTV subscription. Not just like that — without a clear answer to what this money is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u99	When I spoke about the role of the National Assembly, I said that our role is to ensure conditions, control, control and that public institutions can work. It's not like we're here to deal with individual fees, wages and what's wrong, what we found through the media, and what someone said through anonymouss. What the Court of Auditors and others have found must be done with a response report in the institution, otherwise management should be replaced. And that's what the former government had the opportunity to do, and that's what the current government has. And now we're talking about that for as long as they don't fix it, we won't be able to provide the conditions for them to work. Throughout the period, RTV Slovenia has talked about having very many problems and having very many problems in the programmes and that the only thing they can do is reduce programs in addition to cuts on employees. And the programs are the ones that take the money. This must be assured of us, including what may have been said before. Of course, it seems particularly filthy to me to hope for this amendment of desirability or other treatment of what is supposed to be happening here. I don't know why this could be an argument, I don't know on what basis this could be an argument, because we are trying to maintain RTV Slovenia as a public institution in the form that it will then be able to perform public functions. That's actually the whole point. And once again, all that has been said about personal incomes and employees is the deception of the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Actually, I wasn't going to come by, but I think it's right to say a few things about this event that actually happened a year ago. It bothers me that this debate is reopening. I understand the debaters, but there is no way that I can understand the proposers of this amendment, especially since they have seen in the morning that this amendment has not actually taken place on the working body somewhere. In the previous term, we in the Slovenian People's Party, as a government party, requested that the RTV contribution should be lifted, that caution should be exercised in reducing the RTV contribution, because we considered that without a good business rationalisation plan, and that we also requested the Director-General, who was also in the Group's discussion, that there would not be any unnecessary distortions of programming content. That is why, at our request, we reached this compromise in the coalition and this agreement on only a 5% reduction in the contribution from 1. 1. 2013 Of course, with the commitment of Radiotelevision to adapt to the economic situation. The downturn was then accepted in the light that the public institution of RTV in the crisis that we are in, as all citizens and citizens are doing today, must shrink and also rationalise business. At that time, in some way, we reached some peace with this compromise, in fact, the Director-General agreed and also promised that the matter would be dealt with primarily in terms of rationalisation of business and the resolution of those irregularities when they were announced. With this proposal that the RTV contribution return to that original height, we are very surprised in the Slovenian People's Party. We are confident that the increase in the contribution by RTV management will significantly reduce the motivation to manage public service costs, but we fear that there will also be much less willingness to clear up all those perceptions that fly to a public institution regarding business irregularities, employment, pay and so on. But personally, in this story, which is actually happening today, it is very difficult for me to get rid of this feeling that the purpose of the government coalition is with this move, with this amendment merely to buy social peace in a public institution, and that which has already been exposed several times today, probably also to the favor of the public institution as a powerful actor in the media scene to the current government. Unfortunately, however, no one in the government thinks that the growing RTV contribution is being paid by citizens who also have fewer incomes due to new taxes and the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Messengers and Members! I did not intend to discuss this amendment myself, but I was encouraged by some colleagues who had discussed it before me. First of all, dear fellow Brultz, I'm sorry you're not in the hall. But before that, you spoke highly of the former director of the RTV house to Mr. Guze. If we knew what he was doing, then we'd know that in his day, the RTV house floated out of red numbers. This is a fact and it is also documented. Comrade Möderndorfer performed a real great show in this hall, says the theatre, shouted at us, told us how we have no idea what the RTV office means, what the RTV office actually does, what programs it has and so on. Of course it doesn't. I myself have been working in this house for several years, and I must say that some things are well done, but there are some that are not as well done as they are everywhere. However, I fully agree with my colleague Tank, who, in his debate for a longer time, has actually won the essence. The coalition at all levels of cutting, citizens and citizens are tightened by belts. There is nothing wrong with that, given the situation we are in. But it was responsible for you to at least explain to all these citizens and citizens why in such a difficult situation, when some barely break through from day to day, you will increase funding for RTV. That would be the least that would be appropriate. In this case, I can say it's unworthy. And here we have the secretary of state, although she had explained something before, but she did not satisfy me with her reply and would expect to explain again why these funds would go exactly. Thank you. Mrs. Potrat, I would ask you to express your opinion when it is your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u104	Well, we're just going to this part of the debate. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Well, to all those who so call for the need to know exactly what funds will be spent on, I would like to quote the RTV Slovenia Act. In Article 16, the section "on a proposal from the Director-General, adopts a programming production plan that is consistent with the financial possibilities of RTV Slovenia" is also set out among the sections setting out the obligations of the Programme Council. It is therefore up to the Director-General to prepare, adopt and supervise implementation by the Programme Board. In this trinity it is necessary to seek out how the funds will be spent. I would remind Mr Horvath that the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board have been shown what the consequences of the reduced RTV contribution will be, so these two Councils have instructed the Director to draw up a new programming plan that will take account of the new financial situation and have thus proposed the reduction of some broadcasts. At that time, among other things, it was mentioned that some part of the religious program might be cut short. Well, I could now quote you the 22nd article, which says that it organises and manages the work and the business of the public institution RTV Slovenia, the Director-General and the 27th Article discusses the supervisory board, which supervises and does other things. But what is important in this constellation to say is that in the referendum, there was a lot of such acceptance, which would allow RTV Slovenia to reduce costs and take into account some technical improvements. There would also be thematic channels and then the situation of programmes of particular importance, which Mr Vizjak was talking about, would also be given a different treatment and a different space. But neither your channel nor your VTV, TV Boat or any other channel does not produce or produce only programs of special importance, but also a commercial program. To the work of this special one is justified only in that and we have also dealt with this in the law. Now, just a few more details. The former Director-General and former President of the Programme Council especially thanked the Government of Borut Pahor for the increase in the RTV contribution, because the cases that have now erupted in respect of salaries have now been handled, but this has been well received. Last year there was pressure on RTV, in fact political pressure. Let us just remember how the Committee adopted illegal decisions on the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board, and at least some individuals were acting so well that one of them became president of the new Supervisory Board. When we talk about the RTV contribution, we need to know that this story has been spinning all the time, how the RTV contribution needs to be destroyed. However, let me tell you that Article 32 also specifies who is exempt from payment of RTV contributions. And I also think about those, or especially those, who can't pay for RTV contributions. Unfortunately, the number of them is increasing because the situation for these people is poor, but in a way that exempts payments of RTV contributions, the public service of RTV is accessible to them. And that's essential. As regards the Court of Auditors' report, some of the programme's creators on the other hand must pay too much back, and this is in corrective measures. The Director-General said that this is because some also have quite substantial amounts, are being repaid or are being reimbursed in part. There's still a lot to say if there was more time. What you don't want to know, or maybe you don't know, but it would be good to get information before you're so flat-rate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you. As there is still a desire to discuss, I am opening up the possibility of applying for a new round. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you, Majda. You well commended that article of mine in a marriage that benefits the socially disadvantaged. You never had such a good word for this marriage of mine. That's really sweet of you. Now, more seriously. Look, I'm afraid that this government has lost some sense of reality, because the pressures of people are getting worse at the moment, the predictions are getting worse, entrepreneurs are simply not able to do it anymore, new forgivenesss are being announced. And in this light, it must be said that national television is also part of this society. It cannot be over it, it cannot be exempt from it and must be in line with the capabilities that this society has. For this reason, the proposal to increase the RTV contribution is certainly a completely wrong move at the moment. More. In a way, it seems like Empress Antonieta Bratusek stepped into this place and said, "Yes, if they don't have bread, they should eat sweat." But the people of God, every euro is known to many today. Some families literally have problems with survival. And to many, even what is in some way humanly understandable, but it is very sad, it is difficult to ask for exemption, even though the exemption of RTV contributions would already be justified. It's just that we Slovenians are hard to admit that we're in trouble. And this is the moment of this reality. And for that reason, this proposal is mildly inappropriate and wrong. No people or entrepreneurs or economy in Slovenia, none of them are dairy cows for some authority indefinitely. It is said that things need to be put on real foundations, on real ground. This is not just a request from the opposition, it is also a request from the European Union. After all, as well as the new government, which, you will remember, has initially been vehemently told how it will strengthen the public administration, etc. or the public sector, it has now come to real ground because it has been told from Brussels what it can and what it can not. And today, in fact, there is much of what the government of John Janša rightly has set. In fact, the situation is quite awkward for you, because you need to tell your people why the previous government, which was so successful in this work, needed to be replaced. Well, when we talk about raising the RTV contribution, there's something else to say. It is likely that those who would fully respect the law would be entitled to a raise, and I am aware of one case that has recently been in the media when someone did the same in the time of the previous government and the same in the time of this government. The previous prime minister said he didn't say anything smart, and he told the Prime Minister that she didn't say anything smart. At the time, everything was fine, and now he was sanctioned – the same person for practically the same words when he spoke of the same function in the country. Whether he was telling the truth at the time or now, with some sense of humor, we could say that a lie was actually rewarded and the truth was sanctioned. But even if we leave our wits behind, you will probably all agree that these are obvious double standards. That there must not be double criteria not only regulated by the press code, but also regulated by the RTV Act. All you have to do is read it. This, of course, means that it is an obvious violation of the RTV Slovenia Act. And if it is an obvious violation of the law, it is, excuse me, mildly speaking, not only inappropriate, but something else I could use as an expression, if it comes at the same time with a request for additional money to do so. Will the money be allocated to those in the editorial board who, in the case of this journalist who has been sanctioned, have applied double criteria? I don't know. But the question is interesting. From the point of view of press freedom, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I think that the debate, which is preceded by the principle of double criteria, needs to be continued, because you represent it from government benches as well. So it was said that last year the political pressure on RTV, as Collegiate Potrate found out. Because of the strong political pressure there has been a lot of talk about poverty in this country, about catastrophic situations, and now that there is no political pressure, the situation has worsened, and suddenly there is no poverty. Look, the double criteria also seem to me that, I see the Director-General is defaming the opposition on Twitter right now. But when there was so much pressure, we had a dictatorial regime or whatever, I do not remember that in the previous term, because of this political pressure, I would have been dissipated by the opposition at that time. Now that there's no pressure, yes. I don't care what's going on inside RTV, where firefighters break in, where closed editors' rooms are, in fact, I can't help but benevolently see that some correspondent happens to be at some party, and there's an accident, and the service car breaks down, and I think they're reacting in some way human way. However, I am disturbed by the double criteria. When the Director of the NPU wrote, I think Mr Blažina, a significantly smaller matter, I think he lost all his powers overnight. And then you find out what made him lose. The NPU was prior to the disclosure of the strong corruption affairs in which some of the current authorities' grey eminences were believed to have been involved. And, of course, such an accident came in extremely well. And yesterday, I found out from the university circles that I was supposed to be, I don't know him, I drank three beers, but that he felt weird. If that's true, they even assume they helped him add something to that beer. Because he was investigating the NPU, he said very important things. You see, these are double criteria. There is an accident, which is nothing special, and other things require making a crazy noise, an affair, and getting rid of the night of a man who would probably clear up some corruption affairs. For such an RTV, we must be careful. Whether in these times of crisis it is really necessary and must be increasingly put into this bag or it must be demanded that, like the whole society, all other systems should be able to manage with smaller ones, and in this case with the same resources. Look, under pressure from the European institutions, the bank has now said that it will start cleaning inside to rationalise. And even some former directors say that this cannot be cleaned without some special support, that it is done, that it is such an inertia, that there are so many contracts, fees and all that. And this authority is not interested in cleaning up and clearing things up on this segment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I see there's still interest in the debate. I'm opening an application for debate. An amendment to Article 10 has been tabled. Two panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Earlier in the debate, I raised the question of what will be used for this 5% increase in RTV contributions. No one, not the Secretary of State, or anyone in the National Assembly, has explained what this will be spent on, either in the structure of this 5%, or in the amount of these 5,6 million, for which individual purposes this will be done. If someone has negotiated for this, for how long a matter must be raised, then he must also know for the purpose. And if the Secretary of State is not competent here today to give this answer, then I propose that you ensure the participation of the negotiator, Mr Virant or the President of the Government, in order to receive this reply. The method used in the event of an increase in the RTV contribution is similar to that used in the TES. Never any documents, but just stimuli. No one knew what was going on with TES, no specification was known. And a similar method is now at this increase in RTV contributions. Approximately €6 million is this money. Three euros per citizen or about eight euros per electrical connection. And no one in this room can explain what this will be used for. Nobody. Madam, I propose that before we close the debate, you stop the meeting and bring in someone who can say that. Because of me, Mr. Jurančič with RTV, a unionist can also do so if you don't know who you negotiated for this. You want us to force a vote now so we can blindly confirm the increase in the RTV contribution without anyone knowing what this is going to be about. That's irresponsible. RTV is the only institution, the only system in this country that will increase its income despite the crisis. The only one. And if it's not an anachronism of this time and this negotiation process, then I don't know what it is. This is completely incompatible with the situation. Everyone is committed to saving, so-called incision, everyone, I don't know what, except RTV. And no one knows the purpose. To me it is without reference to articles of the RTV Act, which I know about as well as some of the best here. It doesn't matter, because I know it. I'm asking because it's not. EUR 6 million of additional RTV revenues which do not have the intention of spending. The Court of Auditors shall, in each audit, require the purpose of the expenditure. You'll approve without knowing what this is all about. And there will be no one in this country who will follow the implementation of the program. Someone's gonna come up with something again, some artificial program, and they're gonna spend their money dry. Unresponsible from the government. And I have here a case where you've dealt with it on the supervisory committee, where Mr Klun said that on RTV they said that they spent 680,000 euros to rebuild the studios, and in fact, the actual consumption is over 6 million euros. This follows from the reports, 10 times the consumption. In this way it is impossible to tolerate any public institution in this country. None. No public spending. None. It is even more irresponsible that, despite the fact that we know that this is happening, you will vote and you will obviously vote if you choose to do so, an additional EUR 6 million. By saving themselves about 3 million because the wages will fall in the public service of RTV. Nobody knows what this is going to be about. It is not possible for one official in this country to explain to Members who ask what this is going to be about. You mention some articles, ma'am, you may laugh, it's a shame that you're a secretary of state, it's a shame that you don't know the basic solutions that you've come to advocate for the National Assembly, you've come unarmed. Neither did your official, or the one who negotiated, say so, and this is a matter of systemic corruption; you are going to build up corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, did you want a procedural application or an application for a hearing afterwards? She's registered to a mag. Matthew the Vranic. Before that, I give the floor to Mr. Mirko Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u113	Your Honor, I think Mr Tanko must apologize to the Secretary of State for the attack, for which she is not at all responsible. Where did the money go when we took it from the subscription? Did you tell me where that money was going? In your pocket? In the client's pocket or where? You have no right to attack the secretary of state and insult her and so on. I think you should apologize to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I propose that the debate in the Chamber be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and as respectful and appropriate to each other as possible. I give the word "magic." Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, I really came unarmed. Luckily, I'd say. Look, competence is obviously judged by whether the answer is what the questioner wants. For my understanding, that's not competence. For my understanding, it is the competence to give an answer in accordance with my powers. In my first response, I told you what someone was responsible for. In this case, the government is not competent to assess or assess for what purposes the additional funds that the RTV office will receive in connection with the increased subscription will be used. Therefore, there are competent authorities in the institution that must allocate funds in accordance with the RTV Act. For example, I have provided you with specific items to be taken into account by RTV in the implementation of its programme. Initially, when we opened the debate on this article, you have seen the non-systematicity of this article, that it is placed in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets and that it is actually a matter of system law. The system law is even more concerned with why public funds raised for the implementation of the RTV programme are used. And if we were to discuss the RTV Act this time, then we would rightly ask the questions you're asking and put my implementation here under the question of competence. Given that we are talking about the Budget Implementation Act and the amount of the RTV contribution, I consider that I am fully competent for the answers and that the answers are also correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you wanted to sign up for the debate? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Let's see, you've reached an increase in the RTV contribution in negotiations with trade unions by 5%. What's the foundation? When you're doing a savings system, when you say we're going to lower it, we're going to lower it, you're going to go to another decimal to calculate the financial effects. Look at the documents you submitted, and that's true. On the second decimal you calculated the accuracy of your savings package according to each item. You came here with 5% without anyone in these negotiations saying what this will be spent on without anyone explaining what this money will be spent on. All you have to do is pick it up and nothing else. It's for me to say who's in charge of something. The negotiator needs to know exactly what this money will be spent on, what you have negotiated, and what you want to burden people with in this country. That's basic. If not, it's pretty much an ad hoc arrangement just to make someone like it. But if you have the content in the back, then you can give 7%, but for these, these, these and these purposes. But it's not, it's not defined. And now I don't know, let's call Mr Jurančič from RTV or some other unionist to explain what RTV is going to spend this 5% or about 6 million euros for. The programme plan has been adopted, the business plan has been adopted, this is a real box packed. And now I'm wondering where this outpouring that Mr. Virant was going to go. Such a precise man, such a sensitive man for people's problems, has charged them here with €6 million and no one knows what this is going to be about. Nobody. Not Mr Virant, who has withdrawn here wisely, not you who represent the government, not the government, anyone else, the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister or anyone else, can explain. And we can't support this solution because there's no substantive basis for it, no one, except that someone wants to be liked. And that's the only criteria obvious. I don't expect what this is about, who it's meant to be. It's the regionals, it's the religious program, as someone said, it's the extra sports program, I don't know who. Of course, on the basis of this, because you do not know how to explain, someone can remember and make a request for a referendum on this law. Maybe. You still have VAT, and what kind of citizen will realize that it is necessary to do so. I suggest, ma'am, that before anything and before the debate [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Robert Hrovat has also been reported, and then I will reopen the application to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear coalition, two months ago you took power and thus responsibility for Slovenia. How and in what way this is best known by citizens and citizens. Your mouth was full of early elections, and now you've decided to establish your own government and rule as long as it lasts. Of course I'm talking about the amendment. I want you to succeed and take Slovenia on the path you want. I must say that while you have been silent as long as you are in silence, I am talking mainly about the Government, you have been working quietly on the program of how you will bring Slovenia out of the crisis, your support has grown. I guess you've all noticed that, or all of us who deal with politics a little bit more. Your support has grown. But when you arrived with the program, you noticed how you dropped — so down!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u120	Please focus on the amendment, not the support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u121	I'm going to the amendment now. What is the result of all these measures – particularly the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens. I wonder what the European Commission will say at the end of the month – are these just measures on paper or is that even more? But now to the amendment. We're talking about an increase in the RTV contribution. There has been a lot of talk about this in recent years. I've been here for several years, and I know how we've been arguing about this, and I know how we've been trying to get someone to tell us better how to raise the RTV's contribution again. We brought him down. We – talking about the SDS that was in the government – have reduced it. You're trying to raise it again. But what's interesting is that this was a deal - who? This was an agreement in the last negotiations, and this is enshrined in the textual agreement. That there would be no public sector statement, you agreed that you would also register that the RTV contribution would increase by €1. Do you think that's okay? And we're talking about 8 euros on the power connection as you wish. Given that you have decided to solve the crisis in Slovenia by raising VAT by raising RTV contributions, I wonder if you actually know what you are doing. I don't know if you've read the Court of Auditors report on the untransparent use of money on RTV. And look, you've decided to raise an RTV contribution in this situation. We are already doing this, and now you will – today we have already discussed and will – raise more VAT. Listen, you picked this up, you're raising an RTV contribution, how are you gonna get Slovenia out of the crisis? I don't know who else believes you. Who else believes you? I really want to know what will happen at the end of the month when we get, I don't know, probably some written report from the European Commission saying, "Slovenia, you've satisfied us with your actions, that's what we expect." But let me say it, I don't believe it. I really don't believe it. Remember, the ambition of the Slovenian Democratic Party has always been a moderate intervention in the public sector, the establishment of a bad bank as soon as possible, immediately, the transfer of bad claims, of course holding, pension reform, labour market reform. Remember what the previous government has done to get us out of the crisis. Remember! And you're lifting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u122	Amendment. I suggest you focus on the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u123	Of course, I'm going back to the amendment. And you — what are you doing? You're lifting an RTV contribution. If you want, I'll be back on this subject three more times. I do not think that these measures are what citizens and citizens expect from you first, but at least what the European Commission expects from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have been hearing for three hours about an amendment and an RTV contribution, and some of them since 9 a.m. when we had the Finance Committee, so we have been hearing about one and the same thing from 9 a.m. to almost half seven. I accept all your debates, but you know that if we first put forward a procedural proposal by the coalition and would say that we would discuss the amendment only once every five minutes, we could vote without any problems. The majority would vote and listen to Mr Jerovsk only once, Mr Tankot only once, and I will not say, Mrs Majdo Potrata only once, and this debate would probably go much faster through. Now we listen to Robbie talking about Europe, about how they were more successful, and so on. I propose, Madam Vice-President, if possible, with a gentleman's agreement that we vote to end this debate, we have two more amendments on VAT, and that we then vote on this ZIP at the end, because I think the matter will not change. And there's something else I'd like to say. When we speak and when we ask the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance what will happen to the money, the 6 million that will be received by the Ertevians, I say they will say so themselves. But what would be most sad is that Members and Members of Parliament should determine what will happen on this television. Because tomorrow, when you have the power, you'll say you need an hour's weekly program around the SDS, then we'll tell you we'd like to have movies from 1945, etc. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. No, no. It's out of the question. [[Laugh]] Branko, no, no, that's out of the question. I suggest we stop this and go to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u126	Mr. Han, I'd like to ask you one more time. If I understand you correctly, do you wish to suggest that, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, from now on, the following amendments and the debate, if I quote, 'The Assembly of State may, on a proposal from the President or a Member', 'decide that the speaker may discuss the same matter only once'? Is that what you wanted?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u127	Madam Vice President, that's exactly what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Tanko, you have a procedural proposal, or I will put to the vote first Mr Han's proposal, and then we can continue to have your proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I suggest we go our separate ways. I have already proposed twice, procedurally, that the meeting be suspended in the event that we do not get an appropriate explanation of the reasons for the increase in the RTV contribution. It's not like that. I suggest we suspend the session so that someone can explain it. If not, we'll just take a break and sit here. It's not a problem. However, there is no need for this to take place, for about two hours ago, for the first time, I put forward a proposal for someone to explain it. And there's no explanation for that. It did not explain what this 5% would be about by percentage or by amount. I propose that because the Secretary of State obviously does not know that the negotiator is coming, that is Mr Virant or any unionist from RTV before we decide on anything and before we continue to discuss anything. That's what you have to guarantee. If we have this debate, we need competent interlocutors and competent answers. As long as it's not guaranteed, it's working on the wire, on the mind, and so on. You're the government of expertise. The government is a professional. If she's not good enough, she's got professional associates, directorates and so on. I propose or demand that we get answers first, and then we can deal with other procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u130	Do you, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, have a case in point? Here you go. Otherwise, we will vote on Mr Han's proposal. The answer you are talking about, Mr Tanko, here is the first one among us, namely the President of the National Assembly, who has already given you an answer. That way, I wouldn't interfere. Mr. Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u131	I propose that, given that a procedural proposal has been tabled, we no longer discuss this. However, as a great acquaintance of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that he cease the process of fisculture, because we will simply not go anywhere in this way, because he knows exactly who is responsible and empowered to give answers on behalf of the Government and is present. Therefore, I do not need to use these interruptions and all these exercises, as Mr Tanko said, from his vocabulary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. As I said, I will follow the President of the National Assembly's reply, which explained to Mr Tank. I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal of Mr Matjaz Han. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that from now on, each Member or Member may discuss each article and its amendment only once. The representative of the applicant may, however, apply several times to the debate. We're voting. It's not working, abort. Please, everyone, take another look at your cards. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the procedural proposal and the decision to this proposal by Mr Han have been adopted. Everyone's talking once. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. My colleagues warned me that Dr. Virant was running somewhere after the National Assembly. I would ask if you would invite him to the hall to explain to us what this 5% increase in the RTV contribution will be intended for, either by percentage or by amount. There's no problem. We will understand each other, just let someone say that the people who follow and pay for it will know what they will get for it. That's basic. If you load something up, then tell those people who pay for it, what they get for it, what things. I propose, Madam Secretary-General, I know this is already difficult for you too, but you must provide someone who can say that. I think those of us who ask that question deserve a correct answer. Six million euros is not enough money. You'll be saving $3 million on the basis of lower wages, that's about €9 million. Tell us what Mr Virant, who negotiated, will spend this money within RTV. Someone has to know that. If not, I suggest the suspension of the meeting and that you invite the gentleman, I think that Jurančič, who is the head of the RTV union of one part, is also someone else who will explain who, on behalf of the management, negotiated for this increase in the RTV contribution. If you can't say it, then it's a similar story to other numbers. Give it to 10,000 euros exactly or to 0.5% exactly what you're going to spend it for, you don't need to go to another decimal, just like you have in other things. And this is a minimum standard for a government representative who has come to advocate a solution or a first-signed candidate to state the specification for the purpose of spending this 5%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Although I would suggest, you probably didn't mean any harm when you said that Dr. Virant was running somewhere in the National Assembly, if I understood correctly. As far as I can tell, he's in an on-call room where government representatives are also present. I'm sure one of them may have heard you too, but I wouldn't underestimate the government representatives present here, Madam Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has signed up for the debate and then I continue to open the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. For the third time today, I will explain that I cannot and do not want to give an answer that I am not responsible for. No, Dr. Virant, neither I nor any of the other government representatives are responsible for deciding how additional funds will be allocated to RTV Slovenia with an increased contribution. This shall be decided by the management authorities of the institution. You can probably see how the financial plans of public institutions are managed, how they are implemented and what the government’s responsibilities are in this regard. I cannot and do not wish to exceed my powers in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In accordance with the decision taken on the amendment tabled to Article 10, I open the possibility of applying for a debate, by allowing each of you, as has been voted on, to apply only once more for an amendment. I'm opening an application for discussion. Five panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thanks again for saying that. I would just like to explain to the well-respected member of the coalition, who so vehemently asked the question, where did the money for which you reduced your subscription go? The money, ladies and gentlemen, remained in the pockets of the people, in the pockets of those who pay RTV contributions, remained for mothers to train their children. And that's right. We kept our word. We've cut the RTV contribution, and you're raising it. And why you're doing this right now, and this, I'm afraid you can't explain yourself right now, so no one is coming here to tell you exactly what this money is going to go for.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. 0.64 euros is the burden on the family that will be able to do so, but the one that does not, is entitled to this contribution. That's what we're talking about, respected colleagues and colleagues, and don't think people don't know that in front of television screens. I got anonymous, it's probably a bit of a joke, but it's written: "0.12 cents for the information program", Mr. Tanko "0.16 cents for educational programs, 0.18 cents for sports programmes and 0.18 cents for cultural and religious programmes". It was an anonymous one. There may be something about this, too, but I am sure that they will know this program on RTV, or that money will be allocated to those programmes that are governed by the law, and we have adopted this law here. The Programme Board, however, sets out the programmes, the Director-General proposes, the Programme Council accepts this and the Supervisory Board supervises how this money is spent. You have had the opportunity and you have replaced the Supervisory Board, probably this Supervisory Board acted so well that when we discuss the work of RTV next year, this will also be duly recorded. Otherwise, you know, I'm surprised that, with such ease last year, you confirmed the Public Finance Balance Act and you reached out to people's rights and took away not 0.64 euros, but a few hundred euros. And that's what we've been alerting you to, and there have been some cases that are unconstitutional, and now this thing is coming back. At the time, you didn't care about people who don't have the ability to teach children who don't have the ability to pay for such and other educational programs and diets. I think you're having a little too much fun here and when you've accepted [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'll back the amendment, and that's the amendment we're talking about. And when you took these funds and reduced your contribution, we warned you, and I also discussed it at the time. You know, from these funds, Mr Andrej Vizjak, there are funds for regional programmes, as a certain percentage of the RTV subscription is also specific programmes, that is, for regional and local televisions. Also from these funds, there is something about these local programs. So you mustn't be afraid that this money wouldn't go into the programs and that when it comes back, when we return this contribution to make the programs worse or smaller. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u140	Replica, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Look, I asked the government and the first-signed what these funds will be for. Mr Möderndorfer is not here and has not responded, but now Mr Kavtičnik has told me that there is an anonymous person around, how these funds will be allocated. I'm surprised you're taking solutions in a marriage that will burden two million people on the basis of anonymity. What is the concept of work that is now in place in this country? I therefore asked earlier what programme will be financed from this in terms of structure, amounts or anything, but on the basis of negotiations between the negotiators who prepared this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u142	What matter did you not understand because it was a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u143	I have an agreement, ma'am. I can see that sometimes you don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u144	I think it's pretty good.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u145	And now after four hours or three hours, you've told us that this came now on the basis of an anonymous one, this asset dealer. I don't know, Mr Kavtičnik, you are the first to say that an anonymous person is circulating and your leader of the parliamentary group has signed the amendment, the first to submit it and nobody knows who it is intended to be, except that two million people will pay three euros each. And it's surprising to me that he's established now that you have a government, in these two months this concept. That's not what happened in this country. So that the government, so as not to propose, the first-signed would know why he signed something and to whom it was intended. This is the first time this has happened. And how excited you are now to defend this, such an unsuspectingness and inadvertentness of this source and this decision. I would expect, gentlemen, to say, these five million, six million euros I will spend, or it will be allocated to RTV for these and these purposes, for which we have negotiated. Because in the negotiations you negotiate, those who have been anywhere in the economy are for content. Not for anonymouss. You are negotiating for this and I propose that Mr Möderndorfer, who is obviously now the one who knows this, explain why this 5% will be devoted, why the law and the RTV contribution should be amended by 5%, for what purposes. Mr. Kavtičnik just told a sad story and if that's how you do it, it's terrible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u146	We continue the debate. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, but there has been a very extensive debate at the Committee on Finance meeting. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that what I am listening to here today is extremely difficult to say that at a time when we are all well aware of the state of our country, the state of our economy, the condition of those people who are in the employment agency and so on. And today I am hearing that this government and the representatives of this government have put to the question that has been raised here today and that it has been absolutely legitimately put by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko, to get an answer on what the funds arising from the proposed SD amendment will be used for. I must also immediately say that I will not support this amendment absolutely. The Secretary of State said: "I cannot and do not want to give an answer as to how money will be spent because this is not my responsibility." That's exactly what you said. I've written down literally your words, your sentence. Madam Secretary of State, I ask you how it is possible for us to have a government and government representatives in this country who are proposing a legislative amendment. And who is the one who proposes to amend the legislation? How is it possible that this government that proposes to amend the law to the highest authority in that country - the legislative branches of power - cannot explain why it has proposed such a change of law? On what grounds? Yes, my dears, do you think we're sitting here in the National Assembly, sitting here, being total fools or what? How do you imagine that? And then you, Madam Secretary of State, allow yourself to say that you are the proposer of this law, the proposer of this law, and you have this entire national assembly as a fool. And you're hoping to say the following, we can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u148	Please limit yourself to the amendment. Don't insult Mrs. Secretary of State, I won't!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u149	Dear Chairman! We are always talking about how to get an answer to the question. And if anyone who has the highest legitimate right to receive an answer to this question, what will be the money that the government proposes in the law or in amending the law, it is the national assembly, because we are the ones who decide, we are the ones who raise our hands or push the button and decide how our people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will live in this country. And then no one in this national assembly, nor a Madam President, can take a word from me when I want the legitimate response that the parliamentary groups have put in place. Since this money will be paid by our citizens and citizens, those pensioners who have 400, 300 and do not know how many euro pensions are of exceptional importance to each euro. These people, the majority of whom are in this country, want an absolutely high-quality answer to this question. And here I'm not interested in any public agency as to how they're going to have this money. I would like to be answered by those who have taken a decision and proposed that the law should be amended to amend a certain article in this law in such a way as to increase the RTV subscription. Now, just one more sentence. Extremely immoral, extremely irresponsible, extremely irresponsible, I do not know if there is any term in this Slovenia that could be used to make it extremely difficult for entrepreneurs, craftsmen, pensioners and all those living in this country to complete their budget from month to month. On the other hand, we allow the individual bodies in this society to be given and continue to be privileged. This is contradicted by every logic of life, and contrary to its own nation, it does not. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The answer was given. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Given that you did not hear me earlier when I warned that someone was not discussing the amendments, of course I expect your broad-mindedness to allow me to go absolutely beyond this context, as you did to Mr Kavtičnik. By the way, we are talking about an amendment to the RTV contribution, I will not support it, I am also monitoring Mr Fillley's tweeting and I expect him to answer my question. In fact, I have a few questions for members of the coalition. If, since 2008, what our gross social product has fallen and fell, I don't know, this is better known by finances than by 25% or 20% probably already in 2008, then it is clear that everyone in this country must get less. If we ignore that year of 2009, when that enormous debt, which we have already warned about, is already in the time of the previous government, and then our governments and now you continue to do so, in fact for all segments of this society, less money. Let's go in one order. Can someone claim that today we give more than 2008 and 2009 to the sick and elderly through social work centres? No, no, no. We're doing less. Can anyone claim that we give more or less to the sick at home? The answer is less. Can anyone claim to give more to the army? No, the answer is less. Can anyone claim to give more to the police? No, the answer is less. Can anyone claim that we have more Members? No, the answer is less. Someone can claim that for the unemployed, we'll probably give more there because there are more, that'll hold. Can anyone claim we've been hanging pensions at this time? No, the answer is no, at least some have less through regression. By the way, that was a lie earlier from Mr. Kavticnik that we were lowering our pensions. That's not true, we've been downgrading not the poor pensioners, but those who didn't serve their pensions got it at the expense of the state. That's a fact. Next, social contributions. Can anyone claim there's been more? No, less. Health care. All those sick people lying there in the Clinical Center, after other hospitals, do we give more for them? No, we give less for them. Can anyone claim we're paying more for education? No, we give less for education. Can anyone claim that we don't give more for culture, Mrs. Potrate? No, the answer is less. Can anyone claim that we give more for science? No, we're doing less. And one last question. For which segment in this company are we giving more power from the state budget or from state resources? Is there any Member who can list three cases any Member? Maybe the secretary of state. To say those social transfers where there are more unemployed, logically. Does anyone in this room know that we give more for someone than we give in 2008, 2009. Thank you very much! It's interesting that we're silent on this issue. I've been looking somewhere, in a draft, now I don't know if it went to Brussels or not, but somewhere in a draft, I've noticed that you're going to lower the cost of funerals. Yeah, for funerals. I found this in one of the documents. And now the question: what is the reason? What is the reason why for one segment called RTV, we will give – this is also a question for Mr. Fillley – more? If there is not one segment in this country, one budget consumer who would have received more than in 2009, when you broke up that borrowed money, or we in 2008, when we took the form of taxes — one or the other government. So what's the catch? One more thing. Today on the board, DeSUS and the National Gazette, if I'm not mistaken, are against raising the RTV contribution. Then what happened? Yeah, you made a deal, didn't you? You agreed to support this amendment, which, of course, I won't. And to conclude. Look, I'm gonna give the answer myself, because I'm not gonna get it from you. We cannot refer to the opposition's opinion, so I will refer to world studies and warnings: Slovenia's media space is far left. The answer is: You buy RTV to be beautiful and smart there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u152	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Let me say that the meeting is held in public, via the Television of Slovenia, and all Members and Members of Parliament on TV are all in this Chamber. We're moving on. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you. Thank you, too, for reminding me that I'm on TV, that I'm going to fix my hair a little, and I hope I'm better. Nevertheless, the darkness is so serious that I ask for some understanding. I'd like to develop a few thoughts about the amendment tabled by the coalition. See, the message you are giving today by raising the RTV contribution – it is truly symbolic. The lift is symbolic, you're talking 0.64%. Now that I'm in opposition, I could be in charge of some social policy of our country. I could talk about these 5, 6 million we're turning now, and I would ask, if we had some of the younger Slovenian scientists here who have start-up companies, what would this 5, 6 million, what would they give them today? What it would mean if these 5, 6 million people were to give up on me today, and they were to devote them to the Red Cross, where they could be put in all those baskets where a whole bunch of people who have been creating this country for years and years have to stand in line to get that box with a few necessities of living so that families can survive. What message do you give as a coalition today? What social policy is this, what is the left-wing policy of your clients? That's what I'm interested in. Of course, I never understood this policy of yours. I have lived abroad for a while and I have learned that European left-wing parties, I must admit, have some normal policy because they normally understand the economic system, the normal market economy. And I don't understand that in Slovenia. Of course, I don't understand my colleagues in the opposition either, because somehow I understand why you're raising VAT, I'm not going to say that you're buying RTV today, but in all this program you've set up, with which you somehow want to get Slovenia out of the crisis, I have to admit that raising RTV subscribers is some logical way. I must admit that my fellow Members do not understand this. As an economist, I understand that. Look, with all the system you're doing, with the VAT raise, people need to be told that for 11 billion state assets you're not selling, you're not going to invest in new investments with this money, but you want to build monopolies still on some money from Slovenian taxpayers and economies. And what's going on? The RTV lift is logical, as I can see, there will be a collapse of the economy and the only jobs that will be at home in front of TV sets because most people will be slowly at home. And that'll be the only job they'll have to watch 375. Don't cry, Peter. You will also be able to watch the Samastniks, which we will soon become, and I think in this sphere this is the last kind of package of your common packages called the Exit from the Crisis. This is the last break in the Slovenian economy. It is the clear behaviour of foreigners and those who lend us money to withdraw from Slovenia, we are a lonely oasis here in the middle of Europe. We are going to continue the planning economy and we are living outside some European normal economic policy. We're not saving. We will save on those who work the most, who have the smallest wages and who put the most in this budget. On the other hand, the eternal word of the great management, even in public administration. Also, the one whom Jože Tanko called today to come explain something that he considers to be a so-called praetor according to new rules, Dr. Gregor Virant, who knows what is just and what is unfair. I would invite him to speak on his own as a European liberal to say what it means to raise the RTV subscription in these times, how management works on RTV. I am aware that I do not insult the people working on RTV, I am aware that this television is urgently needed. But I think that this other side also needs to understand that we are in a common basket with very little air and very little water coming in and that we all need to be aware of how we are going to stay together. Today's topic, as well as the amendment you tabled, has some message value that some segments of Slovenian society do not need saving. Despite the fact that you have reduced wages, this segment receives EUR 2.5 million to EUR 3 million of additional money. On the other hand, a number of programmes run through honorary workers on RTV. I'm aware of that. The whole series of top-notch shows takes place through honorary workers on RTV, not through the base that has permanent employment on RTV. Of course, there are many parasites, whole families that work on RTV, which are in no way shakeable and which somehow also partially exhaust RTV. For me, I understand the message value. The message value is according to these [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Because I see that all the debaters who wanted to do so have been given a word, but I also see an interest in the debate. I'm opening an application for debate. For all those of you who haven't discussed it since we came to a decision. Mrs. Masha Kociper has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u155	Others in Positive Slovenia have already given up on this debate, which is now going on for five hours, and the last few hours are going on about one amendment, which for 0.64 euros, says an increase of 64 cents is an RTV contribution. From this you have made a political issue of "par exellation" in the opposition, discussing our devastating economic policy, the disastrous moves of this government, the destruction of the country, and I don't know what it is and desperately asking what we want to say with this increase. Mr Tanko, who, of course, knows the rules of procedure very well because he has been in the National Assembly for years and years, and has also proved this many times, is desperate to wonder who will come and explain to us what this money will be spent on. In doing so, Mr Tanko, of course, you know very well what the Rules of Procedure stipulate on who represents the Government at the meetings of the National Assembly, whether it is a Minister or a Secretary of State. The following Rules of Procedure specify exactly when substitutions may occur. However, I have never heard in the history of the National Assembly that at the debate on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, someone demanded that the director of RTV Slovenia come. This would seem to me, for the first time, contrary to the rules of procedure which do not allow such participation; for the second time, something very unusual in view of the fact that we know what the law on the implementation of the budget is. The law on the implementation of the budget is the law governing the way the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is implemented, the management of the revenue and expenditure of the budget and state assets and debts. The Budget Implementation Act is a law that is represented by the Ministry of Finance in the Government and today there are high representatives of the Ministry of Finance who have responded to some of the questions that have been relevant. But of course that wasn't enough for you because you want to know in the law on the implementation of the budget exactly for what purposes RTV Slovenia will spend these revenues. This, of course, is not part of this debate, nor in this law, nor can the National Assembly thus interfere with the RTV Slovenia programme. However, this is in line with the SDS policy, which I would like to make up until the last peak, perhaps for a minute, what someone is going to play and what someone will ever be able to watch and what money they will get for it, if, of course, they will play it properly and do it as the SDS has decided. Besides, you're asking yourself a lot of questions about the meaning of this amendment. What we want to do with this has been asked by one of the Members, this time in a hundred and one way, and what is the message value of this amendment, the last debater wondered. I'll tell you what the message value of this amendment is for me. For me, the message value of this amendment is that this coalition is clearly and loudly stated in a law that says how it will implement the budget – usually the coalition even accepts the budget, but this is by chance a different one – and this coalition has decided to give special value and special weight to public RTV Slovenia because of all the work and mission that this public institution carries out. The previous coalition, for example, with various donations and grants, expressed its support for the Reporter, Democracy and Fireplace. These got some special funds, the only media they got were the three. Clearly, it was the policy of this coalition that these are the media that exist for the good of our country and must be adequately supported. This coalition considers it to be a medium that deserves support in the same way that it raises its contribution by €0.64, the public RTV Slovenia, which pursues some very important goals that are not commercial in nature, which is beautifully described in the explanation of the amendment, but which are aimed at non-commercial content, turns to minorities, minorities, other minority groups, children and others with special needs, such as politely affected, then covers some topics that do not have a wide public interest, etc. This is what we want to achieve with this amendment, and that is why I will be very happy to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Is it still a wish? You have a replica, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dear colleague! You are one of those who again interprets a paragraph that is not the subject of this discussion. Mr Jani Möderndorfer signed an amendment on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, which increases the RTV contribution by 5 per cent. There is not one in the Group of Positive Slovenia to say why this amendment is signed and what it is intended for. Except that you have decided to politically support RTV Slovenia, we will pay all the citizens. Pay this out of your own, I don't know, from your contributions or what you collect in the framework of the Party of Positive Slovenia or anything else. Why should some people pay for it, who have nothing to do with your decision? I asked very carefully whether someone would explain to me who signed this or who was in the basic version of the law, why it was intended. So much for it, so much for it, and it's worth it. There's no one here, and there's 50 of you in the coalition, and on the other hand, there are 12 or 13 ministers in the government with all the machinery and all the other things that would say why it would be meant for. When I was working at the firm, I went to my partner's to negotiate, and we knew exactly: it costs so much, it costs so much. Plus, it works or whatever. Mr Weber is a builder, he also knows how to account for plus, minus work, etc. Investments or anywhere. And you're going to go to some investment, some investment in some project, and you don't know what you're going to spend 6 million euros on. For what purpose! But just like that, you put something in general somewhere, and then whoever takes it and whoever takes it will take it. This is what I expect from the proposer or the law, because it was in the basic text and it was a matter of the negotiating process, it fell on the committee and it was reduced; or from the one who again proposes this matter. It's a simple thing. But it's not an object of anonymity. If Mr Möderndorfer has signed this, then the leader of the parliamentary group must have a valid reason for this, but not the basis in the anonymity that someone, four hours after he submitted it, sent it and told him what it was needed for. That's the problem. And there's a lot of decisions like that. Perhaps you will also force us to make irrational decisions that you cannot explain when we continue to have the law on budget implementation and probably other laws. That's the problem. We want an explanation. Perhaps the proposer must explain this if he is required to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I see that there is still a desire to discuss, so I am opening an application to the debate for all those who have not yet discussed it if you are assessing that it is necessary. Three panellists have been reported. Of course, I ask you to focus, we are now discussing the amendment to Article 10 tabled by the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The first one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! What this money will be spent on is likely to be seen once in the final RTV account. I hope that, not as now that the Court of Auditors has actually found very large errors, it has given a negative opinion, put in place preparatory measures, imposed preparatory measures, and this has led to the situation in which RTV is located. There were irregularities in the payment of salaries, irregularities in the use of dividend sales funds and so on. Public finances require transparency, require supervision. If this is about increasing public money, and this is certainly a membership fee for RTV, it is certainly necessary to give a reason, if not for what it will be used for, but why it will be spent. This can be because RTV has too little money. But the director assured us that he didn't need this contribution, at least that's what we heard. This reason may also be, and this has been said several times in the undertones here, an agreement with the unions and that this is part of a union agreement to actually increase the RTV contribution. If so, then today I wonder who is running this country, who is actually running it; is it run by the government, or is it run by a union, or is it run by a government? The government rules. If these are measures for which the Government stands and are made on the basis of an agreement with the unions, then it is necessary to say here that these unions are burdening people with a total of €5 million or €6 million. Here it must be said that this is actually questionable if this is actually done on the basis of this. Of course, there are also reasons for what this is and what they think it is necessary to improve, increase, increase wages, increase other incomes and so on. That's right. We cannot actually control public finances here on the one hand, and on the other hand we can actually impose obligations on citizens and citizens to pay something; we are paying something, which we do not even know whether we will get better quality or poorer quality. Of course, today people have a God-given choice and they can switch to another channel if they are not looking at what they have to pay their membership fee for. Here too, from the point of view of public finances, even in terms of transparency of public finances, it is necessary to say in fact what RTV will spend on or what is the reason for this contribution to be increased. Of course, we can talk — for some — about minor amounts, about very small amounts, but this is about 5 to 6 million. It's not a small amount, it's not a small amount for public finances today! As a result, the principles laid down by the public finances laid down by the budgetary policy must also be followed strictly, namely that it is for everyone's sake. To really tell what will happen to these funds, how the institution will operate and what the economic policy of this institution is after all. But I don't agree, but I don't want to talk about the program here. I agree, we have a programming council, we have all these organs, control councils and so on. But it's nice and it's good to know what people are going to pay for this extra money.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u161	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! Of the species of Positive Slovenia, it is obvious why this debate has been going on for almost five hours. This debate takes five hours because we, as a party to the SDS from the Secretary of State, have not received a concrete answer to a very simple question for five hours. However, for all those who were present on the Committee on Finance, little has been said. At that time, the secretary of state said nicely what led to the increase in the RTV contribution – due to the union’s demand. I think it's really worrying in this country that the secretary of state, the representative of the government, said that this was at the request of the unions. Who runs the country? Unions, government, MPs, who else? I think that the government should take one major responsibility with this, but it is even more worrying that one union president is probably the best-paid public official in Slovenia every month. On the other hand, the negotiator is probably also a public official who has the highest rating in this country and the epilogue of all of this is that the biggest bill will be paid by taxpayers. This government is only taking measures that are at the burden of taxpayers: the RTV contribution is increasing; in the next step we will discuss VAT increases. On the other hand, I find it interesting how the parties will vote in this increase. The Committee on Finance made it very clear why DL representatives, individually, would not support the proposal to increase the RTV subscription. Only because the Court of Auditors’ report is negative, it is incorrect to do business and until these matters are clarified that this RTV contribution should not be increased. The representative of DeSUS made it clear that there is no time to increase the RTV subscription. They will probably vote again to the detriment of all pensioners who are so eager to defend them. Once again, Madam Secretary of State, please state your reasons for increasing the RTV contribution! It is not appropriate that in these times of crisis, when everything is falling and RTV contributions are increasing. The union agreement is also such that union representatives are expected to have the possibility of 20 per cent of the higher jubilee awards. Who runs this country? Such management is inadequate, irregular and constitutes bankruptcy for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dear Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u163	Madam President. I don't have a master's degree yet, but I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u164	Apologies, then we [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u165	Colleagues and colleagues! We all know very well the country in which it is financially. And in this state, the proposer, this is what the current government says, comes with a proposal for a law that contributes to some means, on the other hand, we do not know how to define the use of these funds – then I do not know! I do not know the case, I would say that even in better times, but no matter whether the applicants were the left-wing policy option or the right-wing policy option, the applicant has always given the intention to use the funds. [[...]] Today, this is the first case that we do not know where the RTV will actually go. The applicants state that this will be only 0.67 euros per month. In short, I'd say it's kind of a popular amount because it's low. On the other hand, this is six million taxpayers' money or the money of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am asking a question, but I am not asking representatives of the government, nor am I representing the representatives of the government, but I will ask all citizens in the Republic of Slovenia to answer themselves who is buying RTV. Did the right hand we lowered the RTV subscription last year or the current left, which today gives RTV 6 million funds to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I think the fourth time today is on the same subject. This law changes the amount of the RTV subscription, which was reduced last year and restores it to the 2011 level. It is said that it is not a real increase in the subscription or contribution, but it is a return to the amount of the contribution to that fixed at the beginning of 2011. What these funds are used for is specified in the RTV Act. The items to which these funds will be allocated are the responsibility and responsibility of the management and control bodies of RTV Slovenia, which are the same as those of all public institutions in that country, because we have decided to organise or carry out certain activities in the public interest in a way that we organise them within the framework of public institutions, which are independent in the framework of their financial plans and the funds provided for in the regulation on which items will be used. Of course, they are obliged to respect the law, in this particular case the Law on RTV, and these funds must be earmarked for the implementation of programmes in the public interest. As far as it is known, the programmes in the public interest are today as much as they were in 2011, because the content law on RTV has not changed since 2011 to date in the sense that it would narrow down the scope of public activities that RTV must provide. It is therefore incorrect to ask the representatives of the Government or the representatives of the candidates of this amendment to tell you the allocation of expenditure from these additional funds, as much as will be collected this year from the additional subscription, because this is simply not the responsibility of those who are sitting here at this time, and to ask us to give a position or to define ourselves to things for which we are not competent. We just can't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I see interest in the debate. You have a replica, Mr. Tanko. A replica of who? Because to the proposer [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u169	Replica State Secretary. The Secretary of State said that there was no real increase in the RTV contribution. That's not true. The amount of 5 per cent is calculated, a real increase. However, given that wages are still falling for the citizens, this means, in fact, a substantial or two-fold real increase. At the same time, you will reduce wages to the public sector by 5 per cent, given that you will not forgive almost anything, that means so much and so much lower wages, at the same time you are raising your contribution. This statement, Madam Secretary of State, is not true. She can't be explained by any economists. Not even a government representative, because the truth is diametrically opposite to what you said. This represents a significant real increase, due to wage cuts and also because the contribution is increasing. Secondly, I do not understand why you claim that it is not appropriate to ask the applicants to explain. Who's it from? From us, the opposition? If someone suggests something and knows what he is proposing, then he is obliged, if asked, to provide an appropriate quality, correct explanation. Besides, I don't know why he suggested it if he can't explain it and work it out. I said before, if we negotiate, we tell our demands, your demands, our assessment, your assessment, we draw the line, the balance, and that's it. Someone must be able to explain that. Otherwise, I don't know why you're making legal changes if no one can explain it. This is unfair to us who have to take this decision or decide it. It's not like we're gonna take it. Some minimum standards in the National Assembly must work, they must be. If the government has proposed an increase on the basis of negotiation, then let it tell us what this increase is. If this is what Mr Möderndorfer proposed, then he should explain what he proposed and for what purposes. This is the minimum standard of clarification in the National Assembly! I propose that you provide, Madam President, someone who will be able to explain it properly. Now the government is unable to explain it, not even the first to be signed under the amendment. But it's a decision to make.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Here are the competent representatives of the government present at the meeting. I don't think I need to invite anyone to attend. I see all the debaters you've been wanting to discuss yet? [[...]] I'm opening an application for debate. Three panellists have been reported. The first is Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Good old SDS, I really have to say that you're beyond yourself. The best European party in the opposition and a little worse in the position. We've been going around all day today, even though you know it, you all know what's going on. It is well known that this was part of a single package negotiated with trade unions and this is the part that no single measure can be exempted from what has been achieved with trade unions. We can't welcome an agreement with the union, but at the same time, we can hack into the pieces of the matter and slowly take it out. One more thing, it may have been explained five times today;the Court of Auditors exercised control when it was yours, I will not say a member, but at least your privileged director of RTV. This same gentleman, who was with Mrs Bratuškov in the same supervisory council of the Bank of Maribor, only for more time, and he was rewarded with the position of executive director at the bank, but yesterday you almost quartered Alenko Bratušek because she was one and a half years representative of the government in the same bank. It's a hoax! It's a real hoax. One more thing. As we speak of this contribution today, let us ask ourselves how it was explained at ZIP last year when this contribution fell. Did you give any explanation? You didn't give anything. There was no explanation. Nor is it true that this has come from citizens, that citizens have demanded a reduction. That's not true! This was the then coalition that decided that RTV should be squeezed a little bit, which I was already talking about today. It's not about anything else. One more thing. The Secretary of State does not have the right in this Chamber to discuss the programming content and programming scheme of RTV. If we could talk here, I'd be the first one to support the intervention against the minister or demand that the secretary of state be dismissed. This can be discussed by qualified representatives on the Supervisory Committee, some of whom are very loud, very capable speakers, and we also have a programming board. These are the competent authorities. In Parliament, however, we have a Commission to oversee public finances, to convene it, to have a majority, to request and then to report to Parliament. It's the right way. All we are talking about today is just a delay or a demonstration of how we will now save Slovenia with 64 cents. Of course I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have an interesting session today. At first, the government has started to re-take public servants even more than it needs to, and later we will meet to raise VAT, so we are taking people back. And now we're taking people by picking up an RTV subscription. The saddest part is that we don't get a single explanation of where this 6 million euro tax money is going to go. We're talking about 6 million taxpayers' money coming out of every citizen's pocket. In this way, the coalition proves that in these times it places the public institution of RTV on some pedestal, on some more, while taking all other public institutions. I have to say that I know quite a few public institutions, state institutions, and I can't imagine what any of them could afford in these times, what any of them could do with these 6 million. Last time I read some interesting study about what's going on in the public sports institute of Planica, which would be, say, 6 million. But, of course, no! The Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is the only one to receive candy from the coalition in these times. Unfortunately, today we will probably not get the answer why it is the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, although I am really interested. The answer is probably also known in this case, which we have witnessed in the past days, in the case of a journalist who has not spoken as he pleases the ruling. Such an editorial policy, which will speak only well of this government, such an editorial policy also you want and the public service as a public service is, of course, one that would allow all of this to continue with this "conclusion of the revolution". Dearly beloved, you want us all to pay a higher RTV subscription, so that only some will turn out to be beautiful and others will not say what they should say in some correct sentence, and they will probably pay with their jobs. I am truly disappointed and, despite the fact that I respect the ladies of the Ministry of Finance when you speak out of how you do not want to, how you are not responsible, I warn you again; we are talking about 6 million taxpayer money. I believe, as the predecessor said, I don't want to talk about which content will be taken more into account, which will be less taken into account, but at least in a few sentences, why did you agree to this, because you probably didn't agree with the union just like that, I'll say, over everything. The saddest part is, obviously, we're becoming a union state. Many times I have told the unions to set up their own party and let them go to the elections — let's see! The president of one of the parties said how many of those J's have, I'd say we see how many of them are in our pants. It is also sad that the Director of the Institute comments on political decisions. As we know, the public office is a state institution or we all pay it, and I don't think that's the case in 2013. I also understand the nervousness between Members, both by the coalition, mainly by the members of Positive Slovenia and the SD, who must defend, I will say some old accounts that the taxpayers will have to pay. I am truly sorry, however, that, at this point, Members are no longer advertising DeSUS and the National Gazette to really find out what was so different in these hours that they have changed their position on the Committee. In short, the fact that our unions rule and the government has no answers is a matter of great concern to our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We raise nothing, we return RTV contribution to the height that was one year ago in 2011. I was present at a meeting of the Committee on Education, Sport, Culture and Youth when we discussed the reduction of the RTV contribution. All RTV representatives explained what the reduction of the RTV contribution meant and what this would mean for them – a reduction of funds. Of course, they did not agree, nor did the opposition. It's downgraded because it's voted that way; that means we're returning what happened. Tomorrow will be five years from the introduction of the third programme, this is a parliamentary programme. You know that the equipment is also obsolete and you know who is most present on the third program, who is the most speaking and who is there [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Yes, of course! So, what am I saying? I would like to say here that the money that was taken from the RTV contribution at the time and was spent on what it was intended for is returned to the same things. Indeed, many times this year, when I am sitting in the National Assembly, I ask myself what I am doing here, and many times I hear people on the street, that the policies that govern the country – whether it is a question of who is leading – who are the representatives of the people, really before entering politics, what tests should be done, because what we are doing here is really inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much. He's a duke. I see interest and desire in the debate. I'm opening an application for a debate, all those who haven't discussed it in statistics can now. The first Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you. More than once, it has been mentioned that the National Gazette changed its mind! [[...]] The civil code is a democratic party, we have the right to an opinion, perhaps unlike anyone else. I voted on the committee, as I voted, I voted on my behalf, and I will vote on my behalf today when he is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I too had a problem answering my phone or not, but a few prefaces did encourage me to say the same — if anyone listens — because that is not the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u180	I'm asking for order in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u181	Look, the debate is very interesting, but still; the more I listen to the speakers, the more deception. Above all, we find out from the proposalers at the end of the day that this proposal to increase the RTV subscription is part of an agreement with the unions. So far everything's nice and good, but you're always talking about how to encourage this RTV house, allowing it to function normally to get additional programs. So I'm asking the motioners, why didn't you put this in the amendment? Why did you not take an additional decision in the amendment that this additional money, which will be collected with the subscription, is a cultural-art programme, for certain specific things. When we hear that the whole thing happens on the basis of anonymity, on the basis that it was said before, we have made up our minds, so we will do so. Yeah, then give the money from some other item inside the budget. Why are you charging Members that we have to vote to take some money out of people's pockets? And by no means do you want to say whether it will be intended for their wages on RTV, whether the unionist will make a trip or will be intended for programs. You can't write it anywhere, but you could write it in an amendment. We could take an additional decision. You didn't do it. While this amendment is rejected on the committee which is intended to address this subject, because all of you find that there are not enough arguments to support it, re-invest it in four hours and you reiterate that we all know and know everything and that we are therefore tired without need. I very rarely talk about such debates, but it kind of set me on fire to say so. I don't have a problem either with making a commitment to some money for a better programming scheme. However, from what you are doing right now, it is not clear if not, but explain. That was asked several times. And while the representatives of the government and you yourself as the proponents say that this is a "deal" between the unions and you, I cannot further burden our citizens with some additional taxes on such an argument, and I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I see that all the reported debaters who wanted to do so have been given the floor. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 10. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to the 11th Article of the SDS, SLS and NSI. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment tabled? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening a debate. We have three reported discussers. The first is Mr Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. We will have to adopt serious reforms to balance public finances, including public sector reform. It's not the only thing that's necessary, but it's important. When we raise VAT, it's not a question. We're doing this today and now. Citizens and citizens are against high taxes. Not because it's modern and not because of taxes like that, but because they're unhappy about how the taxes collected are then used. What do they get for this money? Is it used in a fair and transparent manner? Or are we faced with new affairs from day to day? They say saving is not the right way to deal with the crisis. I agree. As a result of VAT increases, final consumption will decrease by 1.5%. For that, citizens will have to save. Every euro counts to those on the edge. Forcing citizens to save their lives is not the right way. Lower consumption will affect economic growth. 0,7 percentage points on an already negative assessment, which we only share with Cyprus. Therefore, it is not surprising that the economy is against it. 1.5% lower consumption and GDP decline will also be known in the growth of the unemployed. We have to fight for every job. Today we are struggling not to support the VAT rise. The coalition agreement includes raising VAT as a last resort. The already adopted ZUJF contains an increase in VAT as a last resort, and if the coalition government, the Government I support, will not succeed in the next seven months with additional measures, I think it is right for the Government to give this time. If it fails, it will be time for extreme action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! At the start of the new government coalition and Mrs Alenka Bratušek throughout the whole year, there have been many speeches and many discussions on how Positive Slovenia has better programmes, how to regulate conditions for the economy, reduce unemployment, increase state investment, use of European funds and so on. A lot of that was said. So, in these two months, you have, I must admit, done two things, although, if I recall, you have been very much holding heads and fearfully criticising the former coalition when we were thinking – by the way, I supported that proposal for a VAT change from a lower to a higher level for hairdressers, florists and even a few smaller matters, but you did not support it because you wanted to prove that we would destroy the Slovenian economy, but you managed two things in two months, but you did; and you have to admit, hat down. With June 1st you will introduce VAT raises, not for one, but for two levels at a higher and one level at a lower level. You have also managed to reduce the creditworthiness of the Republic of Slovenia in the financial markets. That means even a higher debt rate. In short, if it is called, as one of the coalition Members said that the government has done a good job, then I can say – and not just me, because even if you listen to any of those who are involved in the economy – that you want to save the country from the crisis at the expense of the middle layer; the medium layer in which there are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers, workers and so on. But it is not the right approach for everyone to prove to you, as well as the experience from other countries, that this is not the right approach for you to impose additional burdens on the economy and those who are still creating it. If this is going to be a 1.5% reduction – I don't know In one of the shows Views of Slovenia I heard one of the directors that in this account in comparable other countries they lost 19% of the sales and everyone said they should join – and this is what you said when you were in opposition, now you are doing the opposite – to privatisation and by introducing a bad bank where the assets that should have been at the bad bank, as the law stated, at least 10 percent at the annual level should be sold on the market. [[...]] You've mutilated all of this. In fact, you want to talk about starting up the economy by recapitalising state-owned enterprises and also – because I don't know if this has been declared or whatever – by setting up a state-owned construction company. In short, all of this leads us in the wrong direction. I am sure and I do not know how you will then stand before the National Assembly and tell you, as the European Commission told you on 29 May, that these are not measures for recovery, but for the destruction of the economy; that which remains. From here on out, it's possible. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u187	Your Honor, thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the opposition parties, has tabled an amendment not to raise VAT now. At least four reasons for that. The first fundamental reason is that we do not, in principle, support measures that further stifle economic growth at a time when we are in a deep recession and cannot see its end. When some of you compared other countries that have already intervened after these measures, these other countries have also done significantly more to reduce budget expenditure, that is to say on expenditure, and they are no longer in such a deep recession. We in such a deep recession, when negative economic growth, additional measures stifling the economy, should not be allowed because we will go into the spiral when we do not get out of economic growth even lower, as a result of which lower revenues will be lower, as a result we will "find" again measures that further stifle economic activity and this spiral does not work out well. This measure also affects the economy in the long term, and we are not in the short term, because it reduces the consumption and economic activity of those who are linked to the domestic market for services and goods. In fact, it also reduces competitiveness, as it raises the price and costs of businesses, even when we are talking about labour. As a result of the increase in the cost of living, minimum wages will also be raised and, as a result, costs which are already too high for a large company. This measure also undermines the liquidity of companies in the short term. Today, companies have the biggest problem with liquidity, or the provision of fresh capital, turnover for their business activity, even if they have a product, if they have a business, then they need capital to do so and the more we consume it with such an increase in VAT, the worse it is for them. I could probably list additional reasons, but it is really stupid to convince anyone in this room or more that we will suppress economic activity further, calculations show a significant percentage – 0.7%. This means so many and so many jobs. Whether this money is worth losing so many jobs, I wonder. It's rhetorical, of course. I don't think so, and I don't think that this measure is the right measure. The second reason is that this effect is a social one. This is said to have a disproportionate impact on those with lower incomes, as the share of this higher VAT that they will have to pay — at the expense of their income — will be higher than for those with higher incomes. We served on the committee with calculations, however, this calculation was opposed. It is true that he is regressive and more likely to hit those with the lowest incomes and again on the wallpaper those who are the weakest, including pensioners with under-average pensions, not to mention social problems and growing poverty as a consequence. Thirdly, the financial effects that you have predicted will not be achieved. I do not believe your calculations on net financial effects at 250 million per annum or 100 million per annum this year, because this effect of reducing consumption and consequently lower the amount of tax collected by a higher percentage will, of course, result in less revenue than you plan. This has also been demonstrated by practices in other countries that have introduced higher VAT. I don't know if you've combined this measure with other measures that affect families and individuals when we're talking about lowering family budgets or individual budgets. The fourth, even a very important reason, is that this is the wrong way. Taxing, or priority, of measures on the revenue side of the budget is not correct. Priority should be given to the expenditure side, reducing expenditure at the expense of rationalising the public sector. Many ideas, we've already told you here, I can give you another example, I don't know why you left the idea of intervention in extraordinary pensions. We have many pensions when people retired under unequal conditions with others, based on one last salary they received a pension. Nothing will happen to those with upper averages either, not to mention a whole bunch of extraordinary pensions. Look, these are the wrong paths that will further burden this country and our economy, and [[...]] [[micolop]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first say that the Government opposes the proposed amendment. Initially, I explained or initiated my opening presentation of the law, which we also presented to the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme of the National Assembly a week ago. In the Stability Programme and in the National Reform Programme, we have announced a package of measures to stabilise public finances of approximately one billion euros, with the Government's goal of contributing one third of these funds to the revenue side of public finances and two thirds of the expenditure side. The measures that are now being prepared and are gradually starting to come to the National Assembly, this law is an integral part of the first package, not yet fully in line with this goal that we want to achieve by the end of the year, but are currently being prepared – about half of the effects we expect from the revenue side and half the effects of the public finances. Furthermore, the Government intends to make an effort to find additional savings by the end of this year on the expenditure side of the budget of EUR 200 million. These measures and arrangements, in order to be able to take individual measures, also require their time for professional preparation. As a result, not all measures can be taken at the table at once, but these measures come gradually. Today is essentially ahead of us with all the other measures and those other measures that we have discussed so far have been coordinated in agreement with the union. I have never claimed that an article referring to the value added tax rate, coordinated with or even aligned with unions, was presented to them on the Economic and Social Council. This proposal, which is before us today, is a last resort. Extreme Action — Why? Due to the situation in public finances, as we found in March or early April, when we took a closer look at the figures, how the 2013 budget was planned, what is the realisation of the first three months of this year and what all the obligations are by the end of this year. We strongly swear on spending savings, but let me point out that studies show that excessive reliance on savings also reduces gross social product growth as well as excessive reliance on tax increases. That's why we need to find the right relationship. There is a need to strike a balance between one measure and another, and between tax measures it is necessary to find one that has at least a negative impact on economic growth. The value added tax is due to its structure, due to its way of operating exactly the same tax. True, it is a consumer tax, which means that more is paid by someone who spends much or spends much of his income. Therefore, it cannot be denied that value added tax, like all other consumer taxes, is regressive and more affected people with lower incomes. However, we must not forget that we keep the volume of products and services taxed at a lower VAT rate to an unaltered extent. In the proposal now before you, we propose to increase the VAT rate by one percentage point. The proposal, which was in the process at the end of last year, requested an increase from 8.5 per cent to 20 per cent for individual products and services from this group. There's a big difference in that. The Government is of the opinion that, given the situation in which the proposed measure is proportionate, necessary and we propose that you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening time for your application, please. Five other panellists have been reported, and Mr Chuš is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Allow me to begin this debate with the following quote: "The Feds have picked up a tenth, and in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek we will have only a tenth." "If the Government decides to raise value added tax, which is postponed by introducing a golden fiscal rule in 2017, it is difficult to understand. The most likely explanation, however, is that the Government simply does not know what it is doing." That's what Dr. Shushtrzych wrote in Finance a few days ago. Massive or overcalculations have occurred in the media, which will pass on the value added tax. The prime minister, all optimistic, good will, full of elena, says that spending on food and drink on average will cost an additional two to three euros per month, with our esteemed prime minister forgetting that these expenses represent barely 10 per cent of the monthly costs of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. Where else are the cost of housing, clothing, services, and other necessities? The raising of value added tax will affect households, which is very worrying. In fact, we need to know that raising the value added tax is also considered at the lower level to be a marked anti-social measure, as the same as the most tangible in society and those who are already barely coming from day to day. In addition to households, economic operators will unfortunately be severely affected. This is our economy, which at times everyone likes to praise, what the engine of our country's progress and development is how successful we have the economy, and today we will give our economy "one big picture" if I say so. Our economy is already struggling to survive today, but today we will tell them something, let us try even a little harder because we do not want to try so hard. Do you know how many businesses, restaurants, various service providers will be affected by VAT increases? Not one or ten, each one will be affected and I hope that you are aware of your responsibility, what you vote about and what the consequences will be. There are also many different calculations, mainly on Gregorčič, that raising VAT will affect the family from two to three euros per month per person, forgetting one basic account operation. If we raise the value added tax from 20 per cent to 22 per cent, we raise it by 10 per cent. The same applies at the lower limit. So, not here today to talk about two to three euros, let's face it, say you're incompetent, within six months we'll raise everything by 10 percent. It's the one and only logical computational operation that tells us this, from twenty to twenty-two from 8.5 to 9.5. In addition, I would add that these measures will not achieve the desired financial effects. Allow me to give you one lesson from the secondary economic school, more expensive are products and services, less purchasing power of the population and consequently demand. I've learned this in high school, and I think a lot of people understand that very clearly. On the other hand, this means that the flow of financial resources into the state treasury will be so much lower. Just last week, I was looking at one of the national programs or television programs when they were surveying the survivors: "Are you paying daily or every week any services without an account?" Surprisingly, they all confirmed, "Yes, I pay for the hairdresser." "Yes, I pay that service without an account." A proper approach is to reduce public spending. In Slovenia, it is excellent and exceeds 50% of the gross domestic product. To make it easier for everyone here to understand that public consumption is 39 per cent in comparable countries, for example, in the Czech Republic 44 per cent, Slovakia. So if we used to be an example to these countries, let us be a little aware that we have also failed and that they are our role models. The conclusion of my debate is that obviously the Slovenian people will pay dearly for the international singing in Stožice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. We also support the amendment in the Slovenian People's Party, which opposes the introduction of higher value added tax rates. As we have said today in our views, and we have already said several times, we estimate that the textual part presented here today by the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance on measures that refer to the two-thirds reduction in expenditure and one-third on the side of multiple taxes collected is correct. However, unfortunately, the documents which are of an implementing nature, which we now accept at Parliament's meeting, are adopted on the contrary. That is why we think that this package, which is now being adopted, fits into a certain trap; into a trap from which it will be very difficult to get out. As we have seen before in the agreement concluded with the unions, there is a moratorium, a very strong commitment on paid sentences, even late interest at any time of intervention in the expenditure side, is said to be in the wage relationship. That is why we do not know where the secretary of state and the ministry are optimistic that another 200 million will be saved in the second step, as has been said today. We all know that these benefits are over 4 billion, it is said, almost half of the total expenditure side, that they are very quickly then subsidies for social transfers, pensions payments. And I'm really curious about where 200 million will be sought in the second round, and there will be no breach of agreement. That is why we are opposed to such a way because we think that it will lead us on another path, that what has been announced in this room yesterday by the Minister of Finance will happen. If they are found to be correct projections of economists who say that there will be no financial uptake of 250 million at annual level and that the value added tax is likely to have to be raised. On the other hand, to close these gaps in public finances, there will be other taxes that have been eliminated in this package in one way or another and are waiting, as we see, for the second tranche of these interventions in the taxpayer's pocket or in the pockets of companies. That is why I am also evaluating myself and in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that we should now, May 2013, speak more seriously and responsibly about the whole package and now tell us what the whole package contains. There is a very bad experience when you try to do something else in another wave, and you should have this package assembled and those two thirds clearly seen and finally agreed. I reaffirm what has already been said here, and there is also a well-known position of economists that this will lead to lower economic activity and all the consequences that the introduction of taxes will entail for the economy of households as well as for the economies. Therefore, once again, in the Slovenian People's Party we support this amendment, in a way we are aware of this cruel reality, that we are actually talking about the package. We have also discussed the package of measures over the last two months. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have promised a constructive approach in that together we will try to find those measures that will, on the other hand, be on the expenditure side, difficult to implement and that we will support them. Unfortunately, the national reform programme itself, and above all the stability programme, has only been presented to us in these ticks; it was presented when it was already adopted, sent to the Government, and this is clearly the economic policy to which this government has committed itself. In the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose such an economic policy. That's why we think we're going the wrong way and we're going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In New Slovenia, which are also signatories to the amendment to Article 11, we strongly oppose the rise in value added tax. This is not the right measure, this is not the right way out of the crisis, this is a stick between wheels of the Slovenian economy. And, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia will be pulled out of the crisis by the only economy or economists, not politicians, even less unionists. Economists are just asking us to create a good, pleasant business environment, not to hinder the realization of their business ideas. This measure is an obstacle to the realisation of business ideas of a healthy Slovenian economy. When we considered raising the VAT rate in last year's speech today, the economists were on their feet and said it was a death for the economy. Today, they use the same vocabulary; apparently, the government of Alenka Bratusek does not listen to it; apparently, the rise in economic growth is more or less a demagogic flossule. However, the effectiveness of the government of Alenka Bratušek in this amendment of the law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets must be recognised, because with one amendment of the law or if you want to hit the budgets of Slovenian families twice with one swing. For the first time with a VAT hike, which I'm sure you'll accept in the coalition. Secondly, by raising the RTV contribution, which I'm sure you'll accept. And that's not good. This is not good for Slovenian society! There will be more pessimism in Slovenian society. If this first package, which is actually articulated in the amendment of the law on budget implementation, somehow I take it down to one sentence, then I can say the following. Instead of lowering the costs of the country, the government of Alenka Bratušek increases the costs of all of us citizens. Reducing the costs of the country is, of course, a difficult task for each government. We sweated a bloody path when we negotiated with the social partners for the ZUJF, we also experienced criticism from your side or from the opposition at the time. It's not a simple matter. But saving has to be, unfortunately, still our stop. However, we did not say anything on the committee, nor did we say here what it would mean to raise VAT for the congregations. The municipalities apply for various calls, cohesion funds and so on. Some of them are very successful here. As you all know, VAT is not a reasonable cost. And now I'm going to quote a successful Premur mayor, it's a small municipality that's building a kindergarten right now. He said very plasticly because he is a realist, like most Slovene mayors. He said, "A VAT raise means a higher price for the congregation for 30,000 euros." And it's about the village congregation, it's one of you, one of the congregations. So much for comparison. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, I urge you to just think: is this a smart move, or do you think we will really get a quarter billion at the annual tax revenue level? Perhaps in this projection, which the government has calculated, I believe is the wrong estimate to reduce consumption by only 1.5%. I don't know, other countries have extremely poor experience in this measure with regard to VAT raising. So in New Slovenia we strongly oppose raising VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I was a little surprised by the position or statement that raising VAT is the ultimate measure — after all, today in this Chamber. In fact, the previous government has said the same, but the problem or the problem is that the time has come for an extreme action. In short, there are no other measures that would not be extreme. For the extreme I cannot say, does this mean the last one — the last one before what? [[...]] In short, what this actually means today in public finances, even if we have recently committed ourselves and the country's credit rating is declining, but there is still so much confidence in these Slovenian bonds that this government has actually managed to sell them. What does that really mean as a last resort? That there's no more action? Before what? For I have always understood that this means that it is still and that it will not succeed – what then? The second question is the financial impact, which is defined at 250 million, with financial revenues falling by 10 per cent at the same rates in the first four months of the year compared to the first four months of the previous year. What do the increased rates now mean also with regard to the competitiveness of consumption or consumer goods in Slovenia? We are a geographically small country, we have a lot of small-border traffic and people, even though we are in the European Union, we have free movement of goods, services, capital and so on, they are peacefully buying in neighbouring countries and paying in the budgets of Italy and Austria if there are more favourable prices for these products. This, of course, means, in my opinion, that we will also have less consumption because of this rise and that we will have less consumption, it will be even less inflow. As a result, the VAT rise is actually questionable at this point, and I do not know if it will actually contribute to reaching 250 million. I'm afraid it's much less. The second or third question is, like some of the predecessors already rivers, an impact on the economy. In fact, we can agree, this is a transfer tax, neutral and so on. However, at the very height of the rate, prices are rising throughout the chain. The price increases and thus reduces liquidity. It's a one-time event, and then it lasts forever. This reduction in liquidity can actually lead to certain companies not being able to pay, to move into insolvency proceedings, of course, insolvency proceedings mean fewer jobs and we know what all of this actually means. This also makes this questionable from this point of view. If this is an extreme measure, then this extreme measure is solved by the financially weakest citizens and citizens because they spend their entire income, which means that they pay value added tax from their entire income. Those with higher incomes save part of income, put in banks wherever they are, and this income is not taxed by value added tax, which means, as the Secretary of State has already said, that this tax is regressive, that it is a social tax and so on. In fact, I am concerned that this is now a last resort, because we have other measures. There are still measures in the area of property taxes. See, we have a compensation for the use of building land, which can be quickly harmonised and simplified; we have a special tax, citizens' taxes, and so on, where also various properties are taxed. There's a lot to be done there. We have a inheritance tax and gifts that can be fixed in the same way. In short, we also have many other measures in the area of, if you want, the grey economy; from the tax registers and so on, which could be introduced before the extreme measure. I'm actually worried about the country if that's a last resort. Are we going to do anything else then, or is this over? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you. VAT does not have a direct impact on the economy, but may have an impact on long-term growth or the fall in consumption. It is true that VAT is paid by a consumer who is higher, of course, provided that the trader calculates it at a price, which is not necessary. If anyone loses on the condition that consumption falls, it'll be a trade. With us, consumption is already falling, not because of VAT, but mainly because of savings. The economy will not be affected directly, especially in the case of exports, because VAT does not affect them. Now that I hear how you're fighting for the economy, you'd rather ask yourself how you've been destroying it since 2006, 2007 ahead, with over-indebted, with taycunization, with financial holding companies, the consequences are visible today, and last year, when you introduced measures, you did everything on the expenditure side, you forgot about the revenue. You sent the economy to bankruptcy, you didn't commit to the debt. There is something else about the comparison of VAT with other neighbouring countries. We have the lowest in comparison to our neighbors. I'm talking about a higher, 20%. But if we talk about a lower, 8.5 percent tax, our neighbors have all over 15%. The fact is that we need revenue, otherwise we would need even more cuts in expenditure, which would further reduce consumption. As far as the domestic economy is concerned, other measures will need to be taken, particularly in the direction of deleveraging and increasing exports. As I said before, we need revenue, and because we are finally covering up that hole that you made at 800 million euros, I will therefore oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Matthew Vranitzer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. One of the most important measures to enable the economic recovery is the stabilisation of public finances. This is in fact one of the pillars announced by the Government in the National Reform Programme with measures to regulate the banking system and in addition to measures to dissipate businesses. Given the state of public finances this year, when the 2013 budget was adopted at the end of last year and the measures to be taken at the same time were insufficient, and because of a different agreement within the National Assembly, there were no more savings – I am talking about the expected additional VAT revenues – in this year than would have been necessary. And given that we are in the middle of the year, it is necessary to cut down on measures that have significant financial effects on the short term. This is a value added tax. When I mentioned earlier that this is an extreme measure, in my vocabulary this means that it is a necessary and unnecessary measure to stabilise public finances for a short period of time, but this does not mean that it is the last one. If you have read the stability programme, you can see in the programme that there are a number of measures mentioned here today that require your time to prepare. For some we need new legal bases, such as real estate taxes, for others we need measures that will be implemented in practice and legal changes we do not need, at least not for a short period of time, for those first measures to increase the efficiency of the collection of public benefits. With regard to the impact on the economy and the impact on liquidity, it has already been said that value added tax due to its neutrality is a tax form which, at least of all, affects the economy in a negative sense, which affects liquidity, and largely depends on the payment deadlines agreed between companies. In the event that companies face such severe difficulties as insolvency proceedings, the existing Value Added Tax Act contains exceptional solutions that can be maintained in this case. With regard to regressiveness, once again, all consumer taxes are regressive in nature, which means that those with lower income spend more of their income on taxes than those with higher income, but this does not mean that those with lower incomes pay a higher tax than those with higher incomes, so that when giving valuable judgments on a very technical matter called regressiveness, caution should be exercised. To conclude, only briefly with regard to the reality of the estimated financial effects. We have based our assessment on this year's latest forecasts by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and have taken into account the possible decline in consumption by 1.5 per cent and the calculations show that, given the very restrictive effect that the annual impact of the tax may be 250 million euros, as is also recorded in the explanation of the law, and given the current circumstances and the assumptions used for the calculation, we stand for these calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, you wanted a replica on? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u203	Yes, I wanted to replicate to Mr Brank Fick when, in my opinion, he crossed all the boundaries of good taste when he said that raising value added tax had no bearing on the economy. He's got it! Not only on the purchasing power of the population, which means buying goods, but also on the satisfaction of workers, employees who, on the basis of incomes, will have salaries and then spend that money, at the end stage also on wages, because companies will pay their wages on the basis of what they will have, but not on the basis of what. It was said that raising the value added tax was an emergency exit. Dear Government, there are fewer representatives here right now, but what does that mean? That this is the last measure and then we're done or what? That's hard to imagine. I think that, too, the Slovenian Democratic Party has pointed out, in a number of other areas, to do some concrete thing and measure not only by beating the wallets of Slovenes and Slovenes or citizens. As I said before, in addition to some measures that are painful, we must also watch the decline in public consumption. Here I would point out once again that public consumption in the Republic of Slovenia is excellent and exceeds 50 per cent of gross domestic product. The countries that took us ten, fifteen years ago, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, can be a model for us today, because – say, the Czech Republic has 44% of the debt of public spending of GDP, Slovakia 39. We're already at over 50 percent today, and they're growing steeply. Thus, these measures are unbalanced and will not lead to the desired results. On the other hand, I find it fascinating; the burden of the economy, being innovative and active in the Republic of Slovenia is a criminal act, which, according to such an ideology of the left governments, I am aware, but I am still interested in this paradox of the National Gazette, and according to some left-wing governments, such measures are prohibited private property. So I wonder if that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u204	Mr. Hear, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u205	Is this too much, or are we going to encourage the economy, or are we going to shut it down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u206	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening up another opportunity to report to the debate. Every single one of them, or those who haven't discussed it, can still apply. Mr. Ivan Grill and Mr. Marko Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, all those who know about the economy as much as they have had the opportunity to face these economic theories, you will remember that the professors have explained that fiscal policy is exactly one of the instruments that curbs economic growth and that these instruments need to be handled very carefully. Even in Slovenia, economists who also have international experience, a lot of knowledge, have been alerting and alerting them all the time. I do not agree with this explanation by the Government that value added tax is the most neutral and that it will do the least harm to the economy. I agree that for an economy or for companies that export their products mainly, because these value added taxes between those in the chain, this matter is indeed being compensated. But in Slovenia, the data we have heard today is about 70% of companies that depend on the Slovenian market. Here, however, is the great fear that will certainly be realized that consumption in Slovenia will decrease more than is planned by the Government. The 250 million Euros that you are planning to acquire in this way in the budget, I would stress once again, could be significantly more possible to save at the expense of a cheaper debt if a fiscal rule was adopted last year. However, since you politicized and argued in every way possible that this fiscal rule failed to be enshrined in the Constitution, Slovenia paid substantially more than it had been in the autumn and a month ago, and we must also take credit in view of the situation. Now it means that this effect of higher VAT will essentially flow into the pockets of foreigners lending loans. Another matter that has already been mentioned today. This tax will be most affected by those people with the lowest income who, in fact, with the funds they receive, have nothing to do with paying the bills and for those essential necessities that enable them to survive. Indeed, they will not be able to save or save on raising VAT. For all that they receive, they shall also spend. But it is true that they will spend less because, of course, they will run out. Here, however, we can all be aware and I hope that the Government too, that all those with higher incomes will certainly bring this VAT raise into a position to this account or save that they will not want to buy at this time, or they will be buying abroad with personal visits and not least through online shops. Above all, there is a lot of technical goods here, and there is a lot of what we see on the Internet appearing, and they will buy in an easy way in countries where this tax is lower. Therefore, this measure is certainly reckless. I believe that even in a year or later the situation could arise if the other solutions were not proven effective enough to go into this, but the government has decided to take priority in the solution that is easiest for you; most painful for consumers, of course, but I am afraid that it will be the most ineffective of all these measures that you have ever imagined. So once again, think about finding other solutions to keep the tax the way it is, and not that those people who are already on the verge of survival are being further squeezed and prevented from surviving from months to months. That is why I will support the amendment we tabled to delete this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u209	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This government came from words to action; words are something else, actions are something else. Before the government sat on the chairs, we tried to see how this government would take care of the development of the economy. You have settled down, you have taken action and these measures are extreme, to the detriment of the economy and taxpayers. VAT raise is certainly a very negative tax that will affect both the standard, the life of all people in Slovenia and the economy. It should be absolutely borne in mind that the increase in value added tax has the greatest impact on those with the lowest income. You have no argument to say that this is not true, because this is the only tax everyone pays the same. Look, the secretary of state is nodding. The unemployed, when they come to the store, buy one bagel, and the president of the board, when they come to the store and buy one bagel, they pay the same tax. Thank you for sneezing and confirming that. Of course, these are facts that will also have a negative impact on economic growth, and we are aware that there is an estimate of 250 million of your revenues here, which is unrealistic, as this will probably change the way consumers behave. They're already poor, I'd say, family budgets, and it's likely that people will look even more at buying cheaper products. Slovenian producers do not produce cheap products, we have quality products, but there will be no money. Slovenians will not be able to buy a Slovenian product, which is of quality, but we will decide on a low-priced product, which is Chinese. This will close jobs. However, those with slightly better, above average family income will decide to go shopping in Italy and Austria. In fact, you will kill both the Slovenian consumer and the Slovenian economy. It must be said that you probably also chose a very inappropriate time, with 1. 7th, when the tourist season is over. Slovenia is a tourist destination and we will probably reject all tourists to come to us. Another additional measure has been taken at the wrong time. That's how you, the secretary of state, as president of the government, deceive. The Prime Minister deceives the Slovenian average family by affecting about 2.3 euros a month. This means that, in the 2008-2011 term, we had a government president who couldn't survive with 3,000 euros of wages, he said so himself, but now we have a government president who is trying to convince that the Slovenian average family can survive with a thousand euros. And you are deceiving now that this is the most neutral tax on the economy. Name one economic operator, name one economic association that has supported VAT hikes. He's not here! Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Managers, Chamber of Commerce. They're all against raising VAT and they're explaining to you that this is a negative measure you're taking. I'm sorry. And once again, this will be best known to those with the lowest income. Indeed, the Slovenian Democratic Party said that this was an extreme measure, but that was your first step. VAT raise, raise your RTV subscription. That means all in the burden of taxpayers. It's the easiest way. It should be borne in mind that the tax is not only a charge on the budget, but a development function for the Turks. Tell me what development function the VAT increase has. And not only to raise the upper level, you decided to raise one percentage point below. This will further affect those with lower incomes. Interesting! The government's popularity in polls is dropping. When I look through the National Assembly, I see that there is no enthusiasm among members of the coalition. The SD is not at all at this point, the Members of Positive Slovenia are not answering, nor are the National Lists. You probably don't have any argument to defend this tax and you'd rather hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Matthew Vraničar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I have to explain my nod and nod earlier. VAT is not the only tax each pays in the same percentage or in the same amount, irrespective of income. Every traffic tax is like that, every single one. If you spend or purchase an item that is charged with any consumer tax, you pay the same amount, regardless of the amount of income. It's a developmental function. In view of the way value added tax works, which goes further in the chain to the final consumer, value added tax is also a tax form recommended by international studies as a tax form to be used to consolidate public finances before any other tax forms. Another equally recommended tax form is taxation of property, which I have also said and the government has announced in the stability programme that it is preparing it. However, given that the preparation of a new recast real estate taxation system was completely dead in the last year, it takes some time here to prepare the material professionally. As regards the time of implementation, I should also explain that the tourist services you are concerned about are mostly taxed with a lower VAT rate and I doubt that a 1% increase in reduced VAT rates could have such a negative effect on the tourist season in Slovenia. Why is a lower VAT rate being raised? Not only because of financial effects, but also because of the European system of operation of value added tax, which requires a general and reduced VAT rate to be placed in such a relationship as to prevent systematic reimbursement of VAT surpluses. If we left a lower rate at the level now in force and raised the overall rate to 2%, we would have all the activities where there would be a systematic increase in VAT, which would result in an additional reduction in public financial revenues, and also in non-compliance with European legislation. As a result, it was necessary to increase both the general and the lower VAT rates, but in different ratios: two percentage points in general and one percentage points in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you very much. You want a replica, mag. A cakemaker? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u213	Madam President, thank you for your word. The Secretary of State may have misunderstood me or I may not have made myself quite clear. I would like to point out that, given everything that the government has also proposed to finally expose taxpayers, one simple statement could be made about Slovenia: that paying taxes in Slovenia is a good will, not an obligation. And to make sure that these non-tax payers and live at the expense of others who pay fair taxes start paying taxes and do not have to raise VAT. You said it was an extreme measure. You have not taken any action before, not one. If this is a last resort, then it's probably over. If this thing doesn't work, you're gonna stand down, that's how I got this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I see there are still desires after the debate. Please sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak as the first of three discussers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. By the way, I've ended up with the coalition MP's question earlier, to list me one public institution or one budget consumer who gets more. And so far, I haven't received any answers, I have an open e-mail, Mr Fillley I'm waiting for – there's nothing. Nothing happens. So everyone less, RTV more. But the effects are already here. Look, 565 words are meant for this session. By the way, I can see at this point, so we're talking about raising VAT, so I won't be warned that we have obstruction of those who will vote on raising VAT. If I ignore the last two SD Members who have just arrived, the three positive Slovenias are not here at all. But you're actually lucky that I'll talk about a little later. First, the Secretary of State. I used to sit there myself as a minister, but I always tried to be as objective as possible. You were just talking about how the previous government wanted to raise from 8 to 21. Don't talk like that, no! You know exactly how we wanted to raise those women's hairs from 8 to 21 percent, and what makeup, there were also daily newspapers and even some less important things to live for. But then we even put it down and it wasn't even in the package. And you said we wanted to raise from 8 to 21, and you only raised yourself by 2 percent. Well, objectivity would be really good, because I know what it's like to sit in that bench, I know. At the same time, you have just said that the equal effect of raising the VAT rate on everyone is that everyone pays the same VAT on what they buy. That makes sense. You're right. You're right, but you're spending 2 000 500 euros or here somewhere like we have wages, and those who have 300 euros in pensions are less expensive, so that's why they're less. That's right. But look, it's also true that when you and I go to the store, we're going to give X money for milk, just like he has 300 euros. In this context, therefore, the VAT rise does not affect me the same way, but you are the one who has 300, 400 euros because he gives only for food, because he no longer has. We can go on another trip, we can afford a vacation, we can afford something else, and he can just give it for food. He just sings that, so he pays less. It doesn't make sense. But it's nice to be objective about it. By the way, VAT could be reduced if 6 million, as much as you've given them or given them to RTV today, were to be beautiful there, could be less. That's what he's holding. Then the next thing you have to say is that you were sitting in this bench, too, when Dr. Križanič was here explaining how we're going to have, or you came a little later, how we're going to have a minimum wage of 1 thousand euros at the end of 2011. We also had those big headlines on RTV, how we're going to do a thousand euros in 2011. Minimum wage. You said today that you swear, so you believe that this will bring 250 million euros. How can I believe this, but if you gave up 320 million euros in 2009 to keep jobs, so that instead of 40 hours of work, we, too, in the opposition, warned that this would not be the case, and then nothing happened. I have a special feature on the computer that I activated today, famous statements by Members, so I won't even answer to Mr Fick, but I'm just going to make some statements that were really famous. But it's true that the coalition is lucky, and that's true. In January or December we had as many as, 30 thousand Struklej spoke, protestors, and I don't even know why we had them. They didn't know exactly why they were protesting. Even those who came after him on February 8th. Look, today when you give money to RTV [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] When you raise VAT. That's all right! This is also the answer to why the increase in RTV. So, yeah. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are still present in the hall! I also need to express some of my views on raising VAT. As my colleague Pogačnik, I think that this is a very extremely inappropriate measure, especially in terms of the rescue of our country. Slovenia, which the Secretary of State was talking about today, raises VAT in some crisis situations, this theory has some weight, but Slovenia is still a specific country. Firstly, it is necessary to know that the geostrategic position of Slovenia needs to be seen, and to see that it is a transit state. The next stage, which is, is a country that has invested very much in trade. The next phase is that the Slovenian part of the population has abnormally low purchasing power, that part of this low purchasing power has been solved within this transit or geostrategic position, where most foreigners have bought a lot in Slovenia over the last period. So we started to do something in our pluses over the last ten years like that of foreigners from those small-border municipalities in Austria, Italy, when our people in the former Yugoslavia went across the border and bought. You already said a sentence today, I heard, "We're just going back." So, where are we going now? We go back to the lead times, we have paroles, we have this Belgrade-Kumrov economics school, and we're going back. Look what happens. I will tell you today with all due respect for you and I also hope to make my name so that you will not succeed in raising VAT. First, we do not have a classic system of values of a nation that would seriously pay taxes. This is a system of former inhabitants of the totalitarian regime, which have greatly avoided paying taxes, this is the specification of Slovenia. We're talking to each other so we can get along. On whom do we find ourselves every day? On account of our neighbors, we don't pay taxes! The next thing that will happen: the population that has now purchased some, say, lower VAT rates or higher VAT rates will be used by so-called substitutes. What's gonna happen? They will start to purchase products with lower quality, with lower value added, especially products where Slovenian brands are not imported, i.e. low-cost products from Italy, China, Asian countries, and thereby automatically threaten part of Slovenia, such as part of the textile or food industry. Next thing. That upper part of the population that still has some purchasing power doesn't already have that membership or loyalty to our trademarks. So, what's going on? They will continue to travel on private planes to Milan, Paris, and to purchase foreign top brands — so there is no impact on this part of the population. At the moment, Croatia, the Croatian part of the population, which has been heavily shopping in our shops, by having VAT refunded, will, of course, happen in economic theory to the so-called turning point. So the VAT rise itself has a strong impact on so-called demand and the turning point will happen. However, it will take place on the whole line, with the rise of excise duties and VAT increases, further reduce the competitiveness of certain goods in small-border sections. So, there's going to be a disaster. I warn you today, do not do this, because it is a specific country and a theory that we can somehow fill the budget by raising VAT in a quick way, does not apply to Slovenia. The biggest problem is that we know things in half. The specifics of Slovenia need to be known, the specifics of the Slovenian economy, trade and therefore I warn you with all seriousness. You're wrong. A VAT hike takes us to the ground. Once again, I warn you, think again, I think a few members of the coalition have doubts about this, and once again, I warn you, we have seen all of this before. We have seen the leak – that few Slovenians with money go abroad, buy products or reduce or no longer buy Slovenian brand products; and there will be a disaster. Once again, I believe that you have listened to me with all seriousness, care and before citizens and citizens with all seriousness: do not raise VAT, because this will further endanger Slovenian competitiveness and the Slovenian economy, especially our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. I am also opposed to raising VAT, for reasons that have already been said but allow me to explain some things myself. Economist Masten says that the basic features of the VAT impact are a reduction in private consumption, a reduction in gross domestic product, a reduction in employment and a fall in both exports and imports. So those who get to know the economy better than I do say and warn that raising VAT will mean that those other entrepreneurs who are creating, working today will create every day so much and throughout the month so much that at the end of the month they can pay VAT and pay their employees salaries that they will still find themselves in trouble to witness the failing companies, lose jobs so that we can force people again, because some of these measures in this country have already been taken, into the grey economy, into fraud, to avoid paying taxes. The Prime Minister, Mrs Bratušek, said that an individual or a single family with a new VAT increase would need 2.3 euros of additional money to eat. However, it must be said that we do not just need food, but that it is only 15 percent of what family costs are. 12 percent means housing, i.e. water, electricity, garbage and so on, 14 percent transport, fuel, so at least some of these will require a few more resources in the household. This also brings together only one quarter of what households spend. You need to buy some more shoes, recreation, culture, and so on. Virtually everyone opposes VAT hikes. Whoever you ask is against, because raising taxes is never pleasant and kind and no one is happy about it, but the Association of Managers, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, companies, unions, society of journalists, bookstores and so on – anyone you ask is against because it says they are barely surviving now, but after raising VAT they will have significantly bigger problems. Why are we taking such a step when we know that in neighbouring Croatia, VAT hikes have all come together to reduce consumption, to raise inflation by 2.1 per cent in 2011 and 4.7 per cent in 2012? We have similar examples from other countries. But we don't want to hear it because it's the easiest thing to raise taxes. And even the revenues that Mrs. Bratusek has promised, I'm sure she won't. We're making mistakes again. At the beginning of 2009, when the Pahor government came forward, we proposed the first package of measures in April – none of them were adopted. We proposed two more packages of measures – none and adopted, but you did other things: you raised the minimum wage, because I'm not saying it wasn't low, but it caused the collapse of a whole bunch of companies, and as a result we had more people unemployed. You are promising 250 million euros a year from VAT hike – even then you had high goals. You spent 150 million dollars in the budget on subsidising working time for people who were at home because there was not much work. We've spent exactly 43 million, so we've practically extended all companies by just one year, we'll say, the working time, in the end, they're also gone. At the end of his term of office, the Prime Minister said that his government had misdiagnosed and had taken the wrong measures, the wrong treatment of the problems we had. This government is doing exactly the same thing. You're taking the wrong steps! There are also a few businesses and individuals that break through from month to month and pay taxes so that we can finance health care, education and so on what we need is normal, but that is why we cannot strangle the economy to the end. You're making a mistake again, and you don't want to listen to us! After six months or one year, we'll be talking about not getting 250 million in the state budget, but we've got about 10, 20, 30 thousand more unemployed. Don't do this!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Opening login option. Here you go, Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u221	All this afternoon we survived listening to interesting discussions, and I am surprised at the rapid change in optics in the National Assembly. We have a government of the left-centre coalition for two months, and I can see that we've all been together, especially the opposition, we've already dug well, I'll say, into my front. That's bad. Only political position, membership of the coalition or opposition seems to be creating a tone of debate. All that we have heard today about the effects, the reduction of competitiveness, the reduction of jobs, the increase in unemployment; this is all what another opposition said to the previous government last year. I'm afraid the data turned out that when we warned about these things, we were right. I allow the possibility that you're right today. I am not among those who would be thrilled to raise the general and lower rates of value added tax. I understand that government experts have convinced me that both taxes must be raised simultaneously as a result of relations within the European system if we are raising higher taxes. However, it seems to me that the optics of the state being in an extremely difficult situation have disappeared very quickly: on the one hand, we have the need to balance our public finances, and on the other hand, we have acute problems in the economy, which also need to be resolved. The fact that this year's realised revenue of the state budget is significantly lower than that shown by the end of last year's adoption of the budget should also take into account the fact that some of the measures taken during the previous government, in this budget and in public funding, do not have adequate coverage, which will make the country's deficit much higher today or this year. I wish we could take a good look at this situation. As an opposition Member, I enjoyed little responsibility and a critical attitude towards every ruling coalition. I absolutely agree with the fact that the opposition must always have this attitude and I admire you in this. But at the same time, I ask that we all find ourselves together a little more constructive, which is necessary if we want to restore to the local public the confidence that this country has a future – and I believe that it has a future – as well as to foreign institutions that assess this country and give such and different signals about this country. The luxury of mutual conflict is simply no longer the Slovenian policy. I would be very happy to serve with a more rational debate. As a coalition Member, I had information on what the Government had prepared in the stability programme, more or less from the media, like all of us. Unfortunately, there was no time for us in the National Assembly to devote ourselves to a set of urgent measures and, perhaps, to be wiser in choosing what needs to be selected. Today, on the Committee on Finance, I have already said that I am not satisfied with the fact that we are constantly reducing linearly, I will say to the public sector all the same. We have been delaying serious reform of the public sector for five years. A review of what processes in the public administration as well as in the public sector really need – not only the military and the police, but also what strengthens tomorrow's opportunities for development, education, health and equal access and opportunities for all – and that we are starting a rational debate here. Unfortunately, we are always talking about intervention measures that leave very little room for manoeuvre. In this respect, I also understand that raising value added tax for each company, including the exporter, will make its competitive situation worse, if not for another reason, because of the increase in transaction costs and the cost of the transition to a new system and the new value of the invoice. But this does not excuse the fact that the Government has a responsibility and that we all have a joint responsibility to do something and take steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Any other wishes for a debate? Opening login option. Here you go. The three have been reported by reminding my colleague, Franz Breznik, that he has already discussed and cannot discuss this article anymore. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. We know that something needs to be done in this country, and we expected the problem to be solved in the direction of rationalisation in the public sector. However, this coalition has decided not to take this measure, which permanently tackles systemic problems. You have now decided on a tactic that will only realize a slightly smaller mass for wages and leave all problems waiting until the next step. That's your decision. And you are implementing all other measures following Mr Lukšić's paradigm, and these are tax hikes to settle this matter. When you cannot, do not want to or do not want to cut into the structure of the public sector, no permanent problem that we have in the public sector will be resolved. Not one, but everyone is waiting; whether this government continues next year, or the next government, or whatever. With this, you just bought some kind of imaginary social peace with this union deal. Nothing else. We know, however, that the factors in our public sector are greater than in comparable European countries or in those more developed than we are. We can do this very well, even in the National Assembly, for example, very easily. Look at the menzo, look at the multi-hour discussions, the smoking part, and you will see that this is not burdened according to the standards and norms you would expect. You decided for the easier part, this is for Mr Luksic's paradigm, who said, "Now is the time to raise taxes already." In the previous government and even in the mandate when we were, we were working on rationalisation, simplifications, prices, we were also lowering tax rates to leave more money to those who needed it for development, for economic activity. That's what we did. We cut taxes on wages, we did this in short, we did things just to make it easier for citizens and companies to survive. [[...]] Now this concept has somehow turned around and is building everything on the system of increasing taxes for the population and taxes for the economic sector. I think that's an incorrect solution. Before there is an increase in taxes, what is doing unnecessary public sector costs must first be eliminated. First, this needs to be addressed, and that is also the only logical approach. Under this paradigm, the former government decided, first of all, that it would not be a mistake, in the previous mandate, to adopt the Law on the Enforcement of Public Resources Rights. This law has hit exclusively social categories, exclusively! The beneficiary of this law was no one who enjoyed superstandard, but only those who needed state aid. Some of you here have said that this is a matter of social justice. You read us the ZUJF due to certain repealed provisions that did not affect this category that you hit, but to some other, and so on. You are now proposing a VAT change here, unfortunately a lower VAT rate rises by 11.76 per cent and the higher rate is only 10 per cent; from 20 per cent to 22 per cent is 10 per cent and from 8.5 per cent to 9.5 per cent is 11.76 per cent. If you are already talking about who is the main consumer at a lower level, who spends the most there, it is a social part again and in this part the matter is unfair. VAT burdens a citizen with 130 euros a year to tell you how much this means.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would also like to take a look at myself in this very long debate today and, at the discussions that we could finally hear, this has given me a lot of impetus to say something about VAT. I personally oppose raising VAT, both higher and lower, especially lower. I don't understand, and probably our citizens don't understand that the government, whoever represents it, is trying to tell us that this will not have any serious impact and that we will not harm those citizens who have a pension of 300, 400 euros or have a minimum wage. They will be most affected by the increase in VAT from 8 per cent to 9.5 per cent. Right there! The most substantial assets will be raised by this. I remember what a hall was in the National Assembly of Members who were in opposition a few months ago when the government proposed raising VAT from 8 to 20 per cent for certain specific activities that have already been mentioned today – hairdressing services and some other things. A completely different debate between those Members who discussed this today. I can deeply agree with one of the predecessors who said that we do not now have the luxury of fighting, that we need, I have understood these words as dialogue, but there is no dialogue. I have been sitting here since 2 p.m. at this meeting and I have not heard and heard any answer to a very simple question: why will we give RTV Slovenia an additional 6 million. No answer. If this is how the coalition imagines a dialogue and a lack of understanding in Parliament or a waste of time, as some think, for example, the Members of Positive Slovenia who are not – there are none in the entire consideration of the point of VAT withdrawal! One Member who was here was as soon as it was mentioned that the majority of Members had not been there, got up and left. Of course, that shows the attitude of the citizens, not of me. They don't do their job. They're gone, they're not interested, and they're a stretcher, and we should tell them why. They also had in the programme that VAT would rise by one percentage point, as we were told at the time, and that is what they told the electorate in particular. Now we're in a situation that's extremely inappropriate. I doubt that the citizens will support it because it will hurt everyone. In particular, our citizens will be affected unevenly. Most citizens of Slovenia live on salaries that do not exceed 1,000 euros. A very large part is close to minimum wage. Considering the pensioners, the situation is even worse. They're the ones we're going to hurt the most. The statement I heard about raising VAT with some EU standards and so on – please! If we raise one level, we don't need another, it's every country's sovereign decision. And that's not true, it's not true that raising VAT on a higher level also leads to raising VAT on a lower level. That's not true! No directive requires this, if not, but show it to all people; introduce it to all people! That's not true! European legislation provides that the country may have a maximum of two different VAT rates, no more. We can't have three, we can't have four, we can have two or less. This does not mean that if we decide to lift one, we must lift the other. This is not provided for in the directive, this is a sovereign decision. Don't make excuses for Europe, please! They don't explain things to people that they don't usually read or see. Only you today will decide to raise both levels, and only you will decide today to harm those citizens you say you are most committed to – those who are most at risk. But that's your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u227	We need to be precise when we talk about the value added tax directive. This Article, which regulates the VAT rate, provides that Member States themselves may determine VAT rates under the criteria laid down in the Directive. These criteria are that a Member State may have one general level and a maximum of two reduced rates. The overall rate shall not be less than 15 % and the reduced rate shall not be less than 5 %. However, the last criterion laid down in this Article of the VAT Directive shows the relationship between the general and the lower VAT rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Desire for a debate, who else would like to discuss it? You have a replica, Mr. Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much for this explanation, you said very nicely: we can have two reductions, then we could have one 9.5% and one 8%, and those basics that people most need, bread, milk, leave at the same rate as it was, and we would raise, say, hairdressing services or maybe some other matter; but you didn't decide that. You hit the pocket of the lowest-income people in this country, and that's unacceptable. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I'm opening up the possibility of a report because I can see there's more than one wish. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think that in this situation, which we know very well all who are sitting in the National Assembly, including those who are sitting on the side of the Government and those who are sitting in the coalition and the opposition, there is something important to be done in this country. We're all aware of that. If I recall the discussions of last year's opposition, it was the only thing they were trying to say to the coalition that something had to be done on the revenue side. This is in such a way that this revenue side will bring added value in order to ensure the creation of new jobs. They kept saying that John Janša’s government was doing something to ensure that nothing was done in this area in order to create new jobs. And dear colleagues, look! Not even a good year or a year has passed, and on the other hand we have a coalition, a government that, by what it has proposed, including raising VAT, has done everything possible to prevent the creation of new jobs. Ask entrepreneurs, craftsmen, self-employed and so on! Ask what these people are saying about this proposal that we now have on the table that we are discussing! Ask, can't you hear?Oh, my God! 80% of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, together with all entrepreneurs and craftsmen, strongly oppose such decisions that are absolutely to the detriment of everyone in this country! To entrepreneurs, craftsmen, major economic operators, not to tell pensioners that I am not talking about those who are at the Employment Institute, not to speak and so on and so forth. My dear friends, I really don't understand what kind of country we live in. Don't we understand the basics in this country? We do not understand the need to stimulate, to choose a way to help the economy, to open new jobs. The government of Janez Janša has done much in this area. You can move around, you can turn your heads left and right, ask the economy, ask those people who are dealing with it, working for the National Assembly, for this government, and for all those who are sitting here, so that we can discuss this topic at all today. You have to ask them. We asked them, and they said, "Please don't do such nonsense and don't raise lower and upper VAT limits!" And so on. Let us not do this because it is to the detriment of all, the majority and almost everyone who lives in this country. And the government of Janez Janša, our president and our party, has not decided on such foolish solutions. At that time, we made it very clear, and there is no dilemma that such a solution will be taken into account only in the extreme case, so that we know in advance exactly what the consequences are. That is why we have not decided on such a solution. The current coalition, but the current government has decided how to easily solve the problem they have, even though it is at the expense of everyone and everyone in this country. That's unacceptable. You have again burdened those who are doing the worst, the hardest in this country on the one hand and on the other hand those who should and who are trying to provide new jobs, and this is the economy. If this government is thinking in this direction about saving this country and thereby providing new jobs in such a way, then I am absolutely sure that this is far away, to Cuba, wrong, and it is to the detriment of everyone and everyone in this country who lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u233	Thank you very much. This technique allows us to speak a little more calmly, saying that we don't have to yell because we can hear. Well, for everything the same, for Jani. The honourable Vice-President, when we adopt tax laws, we change taxes, is always difficult; of course, it is significantly harder when we raise them than when we lower them. Jože, it is not a paradigm of Igor Lukšić, but it is a reality that something needs to be done in this country. In the first term of your government, you have adopted tax legislation one way or another, you have adopted a course. And, indeed, the tax on paid wages — how many jobs have we opened up for this? Because of this, not because of economic growth. When we cut him down, we know what that means in the pension box. Secondly, when we have reduced the corporate income tax – how many new jobs have we opened up for this? How much more did companies put in development? Not to mention Mr Virant's wage reform, I am not talking about privatisation in our own home, where we destroyed and destroyed companies that were gold chickens in our Slovenia. That's what happened then. And all this fantastic tax legislation didn't take hold, it didn't produce any results. I no longer trust your judgment and your predictions, because in 2008 you said in that economic growth, when the whole world knew there were problems, you said, Mr Andrej said, "There will be no crisis, because we can take another child into kindergarten for free, and we can give another child for free." And so on. Thus, before the elections, we have adopted another legislation, which in some ways has caused some ten million more costs in the budget, and then the matter has collapsed. Then, according to your opinion, you found that pension reform was not necessary – but you broke it. We're back one year ago and you said pension reform was necessary. ZUJF wasn't the luckiest thing either, since we're already reading each other. Yes! But in all of this tax legislation, in all of your economic development, in the direction of the economy, what are you going to do – Marian, how many jobs opened up a year ago? And I wish I could get as many of them as possible. Did we open up any jobs? Not a single one! We've locked it all down. For statistics show, I do not invent: we did not create a single job because of the ZUJF, because of all the measures that were difficult and we did not oppose them, as you did ours, we did not open any job. And now we are where we are. Personally, and our client is not pleased to raise taxes to raise VAT. However, the budget has to be patched up in some way. Whether it's gonna catch or not, I don't know, I don't hope to predict. I'm not like a variety of analysts, financial analysts, who you see every minute on some TV, and everything about this Slovenia knows, different Grahka and so on. I'd like to see these peas in this chair because these guys know everything. They can save this Slovenia and Europe without a problem. They all know what's wrong. If you ask me, where is the anti-corruption commission? [[...]] They are to report to the Anti-Corruption Commission, they deal with the stock exchange, they resell various shares and they dictate this Slovenia by public opinion as they wish. There's a problem. Yeah, I know it would be nice if the taxes were reduced. But will that make us have a new job? I don't know that. Your hard work didn't bring any jobs. He's not here. We shut down companies for each other, and we didn't save companies. We're saving some companies now, we're fighting. Look what you've done! Even though we voted 14 days ago to sell Pekko, Pekko is still not saved today. I don't understand and I feel bad. Let's take a step together sometime, and maybe a little bit, if you can't brag, at least don't attack us from all sides, because this moment is no good for anyone to raise taxes. It's just that you're the ones who got hurt in the budgeting! In addition to the billion we knew was missing, you made another 800-million hole. Yeah, there's no money! It's not a problem, you can suck now and so forth, but that's why we have to raise taxes. Please, please, you may be faster on the government. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. Time's up. Mr. Tanko, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. Some things need to be objected to. Your pension reform didn't bring down the SDS, it was the unions. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] We didn't help anything. When they filed, we said that we were proposing to support this because it was not coordinated. It's no secret. Second statement, Mr. Han, as far as the tycoons and these things are concerned. The fact is that, in that mandate, the Janša government changed the takeover law, so that what had been hidden until then had to be published. This was brought about by a change of law. The tycoons were already parked at the Triglav Insurance and so on. Since the change of law, however, they have had to publish their own shares. Your Mr. Shrott, you have both been in Lashka since then, this process has been known. This was not done by Janša’s government, but Janša’s government caused them to reveal themselves. This happened all the time and you were cheering because you also led governments and various forums and backgrounds, that this happened all the time. I think your readings are incorrect. With regard to the budget, Mr Han, macroeconomic data, when the 2013 budget was being drawn up, were different than they are now. They are also different for 2014. But under these changed circumstances it is necessary to adapt the matter. And that's what you're doing. However, they are not the right measures to make this happen, because you have left behind all the problems in the public sector latently, you have not solved any of them. You haven't done any rationalization, but you only go with taxes to cover it up and make it seem like an atmosphere, a seeming relief. Just like in the time of the Pahor government, when you made an enormous budget commitment and gave people false hopes that the matter was fine. The budget deficit occurred in three years of the previous government, namely 8 billion. The budget deficit and public debt rose by more than 100 per cent. Yeah, well, that's it. Look at the data! I think it is necessary to be very correct in these matters. As far as tax measures are concerned, Mr Han, these measures taken between 2004 and 2008 did not hinder economies and economic growth. On the contrary, they helped! Even if we did now, it would probably happen the same way. Now, by raising taxes, you're taking what's supposed to be somewhere, and you'd have the potential for any development. Now you're going to encourage technology equipment, different equipment, investment equipment and so on. This is also at a higher level of VAT. They are not only exporters, they are importers who need technology equipment that is not in our possession. It's a measure. Above all, citizens, residents will be "overtaken" [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you very much. No, Mr. Han, you can't replicate, but you've encouraged quite a few replicas. I see Mr. Pojbich wants a replica, followed by Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since my colleague named me by name, I think I'd like to say a few more words. It is definitely, Matjaž, but now I am appointing you that the government that took over the leadership of your party's government, when Prime Minister Borut Pahor was the Prime Minister, and my leader said that you owed the country back then for 8 billion and so on, had an extremely small chance in one year to stop this mindless indebtedness of the country. Only then – and at the same time with the programme that the Slovenian Democratic Party had prepared, which is still clear to everyone today, 10 plus 100 – was it clear how to take the matter forward if Janez Janša's government was at the moment leading the country in order to put together matters in order to bring about such an important situation in the country – the opening of new jobs. In that part everything was clear, the strategy was clear. All documents were clearly recorded. Exactly how, by what procedure, and by what timetable, things would take place. I certainly don't think it's appropriate, but even more so, I find it irresponsible that you are the leader of the parliamentary group, Matjaž, who is my friend, talking about what we haven't done. How is it possible, after such a devastating story of government leadership in those three years, to change things in another direction in one year? It is clear to all who are now sitting in the National Assembly that we can spend as much as we produce. There is no way, and there is no way, and there is no farmer who deals with agriculture, so that someone does not misinterpret that they could spend 130%, it says, a thousand 300 euros a month, and one thousand euros a month. This is what the government of Borut Pahor has been doing for three years, and this deficit has been €8 billion in three years! If we then thought that we could spend as much as we produce, this situation would not have happened as it is now, and we would not have faced this problem, neither your government nor our government, which was before. However, our common interest must be based on only one clear assumption. And you know what is a clear assumption – help do, find a way to create the conditions for our citizens and citizens to be better in the next period. And that's got to be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u238	Mr. Han, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u239	Marian, you said you were my friend. I'll say I'm your friend. The only difference between us is, I'm sorry to admit what my government has done wrong, but you would have lost your crown if you said by accident that Janez's government has done something wrong. That's the only difference. I used the procedural, procedural proposal to tell Marian because otherwise I would never have gotten the replica back. We just have to admit, Marian, and it may be better to take any further action.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u240	Good. Mr. Han, we will be tolerant. Indeed, the friendship between you and Mr Pojbič is not specifically recorded in the Rules of Procedure, so I ask further debaters to pay attention to this. In front of Mrs Jeraeva, Mr. Horvat wanted a replica. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! I very much respect the invitation of distinguished colleague Matjaz Han to come together. It is a pity that colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia did not come earlier in order to hear this too. I also recorded this on the parliamentary channel, and I sincerely respect that we are not attacking Comrade Matjaž. Look, you've even been beaten by the late minister and our joint fellow Member, Andre Bajuk. You said Andrew came, and he said to give another kid to kindergarten for free. Excuse me. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's how it was, look, it hurt me because it was my former client boss. [[...]] I'm moving on, and I'm closing up. I'm on it. Look, we admit, I personally admit that we made a mistake in the 2004-2008 mandate. But probably the goal of the government and the coalition is that the budget is balanced. If we had an extraordinary conjuncture at the time when the tax revenues were flying, if I may say so, into the state treasury more than we planned and we saw that in the end there would be a huge surplus – what do you do to balance the budget? You're handing it back to the citizens. Isn't that right? And that's what we did with the parliamentary law when we were regulating the school youth's diet. However, that our government was guilty of incurring companies at the time, I understand that you are trying to say why we did not adopt a law banning debt. Yes, of course, if there was money for baskets and baskets and it was very cheap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Alenka, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u243	I would just like to remind my colleague Han, who said he didn't know about any job that would be created as a result of a reduction in taxes. That's not true! When tax reform was adopted, the number of jobs increased significantly. In 2004, when Janša’s first government came, 95,000 were unemployed, with 59 000 at the end of 2008. So 35,000 jobs were given by this tax reform, plus by foreigners or 30,000 work permits. By the way, let me remind you that you have been involved in that tax reform. Then we could make a deal, and thank God we did. That is why these were the right and the right measures. What you're doing right now is not good. As Comrade Visjak said, we are obliged to warn you of this. We want to take good action together because we are all here to do something for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're still at Article 11. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, then we are closing the debate on Article 11 and the amendment. We are moving on to the next article, Article 12, and to the amendment proposed by the PS Group, SD, DL, DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss this article or the amendment? I'll wait a few more seconds to see which amendment this is. If not, then I shall conclude the debate on Article 12. We are opening the debate on Article 18 and the amendment to Article 18, of which the SDS, SLS and NSI are proposing. Who wants to discuss this article or the amendment to this article? There's no debate. We are also concluding the debate on this article, which was, if I have the right view of myself, the last amendment. This also concludes the debate on all articles or amendments to this law. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments in 15 minutes, in the framework of the votes. That is to say, we continue the vote at exactly 22 p.m. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u245	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions and please check the voting devices. We continue with the end of item 3a of the agenda, with the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present, for 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 3b item on the agenda, with consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judicial Service, urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're going to the vote, we're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on State Defence, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're going to the vote, we're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd part of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. The hearing will take place on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21. 5. 2013 which you received on the bench. We are moving on to a decision on Article 10 and to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. Anybody want to explain their voice? I would suggest that anyone who wishes to explain his vote should apply, but this is an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, will you explain the position of the Group? [[adverts from benches]] If I understand correctly, you're giving up the debate. The position of the Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u246	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose the increase of the RTV contribution by 5 per cent because there is absolutely no applicable law for this. When we tried to find out in the debate today why there was an increase in the RTV contribution and the burden on Slovenian households with additional costs or burdens, we did not know any, exactly no argument, except that they so requested the RTV syndicates and that it was in the package because it seemed a minor problem, Minister Virant gave in and the government also gave in to this omission. That's the only reason we're making a contribution, and we're charging hundreds of thousands of people in this country. I believe that for the situation we are in, that is, when we cut salaries in the public sector, when many in the economy have imposed large restrictions on their employees, it is so unreasonable to raise and give money to a public institution, without even knowing why this is entirely unjustified, that this is unfair and disproportionate compared to all the other measures we have received. Thus, higher contributions will now also be paid by pensioners, who are already in large numbers on the border or on the social side, who will also be paid by other employees on minimum wages, unemployed, and wonder what they will get for this increased contribution. We have not been able to get this either, this response to what will happen in the RTV programme, in the RTV offer for this increased contribution, we have not been able to obtain it. In short, we have not been able to obtain any reasons to increase or improve the content that will be better due to this increase. Therefore, we believe that it is entirely an irrational decision, an unfair solution in a situation where taxes and interference with the rights of many individuals and families are raised, and we do not need such an increased contribution. In fact, the Court of Auditors’ audit has shown that there are considerable reserves in the operation of the RTV house, that is taking place in particular with regard to the salaries of a considerable amount of irrationality and that these must be eliminated first and that when they are removed, it is necessary to consider whether the contribution is sufficient to fulfil this mission of the public service of RTV. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the amendment which raises the contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, there are still mags. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When the previous coalition decided to lower the RTV contribution, it did so only with an argument that RTV should seek internal reserves. At that time, both the Programme Board and the Director and the Supervisory Board said what they would have to leave behind in the programme due to a lack of funds. If anyone now asks what will be done with the RTV contribution returned to the original RTV level, I reply: he will do what the relevant authorities will decide on the implementation of the programme. Let me mention, this will not put the symphony orchestra at risk, Big Bands will not be threatened, the archive will be able to regulate itself and much will be concluded by the programming board on a proposal from the Director-General and with the support of the Supervisory Board. All corrective measures imposed by the Court of Auditors for 2009 and 2010 can be implemented. Social Democrats believe that we need to eliminate weaknesses in the operation of RTV. What is unacceptable, however, is the populism debate on what this will mean for the family budgets. All socially disadvantaged, disabled different categories, public institutions will be exempt and are exempt from paying RTV contributions. Thus, for those who do not have the resources, the irreversible public service programme is provided. However, it would be good to review the scope of public service and ask ourselves, as in Europe, that the media directive needs to be updated what we imagine in modern society to be part of a public service framework. We do not advocate the commercialisation of the programme, because RTV is entrusted with a wide range of things that no other media house, whether television or radio, provides: a quality programme for all who pay RTV contributions or their social status makes RTV contributions redundant. We advocate the depoliticisation of RTV, so it would be totally unacceptable for the National Assembly today to answer the question of what programming content and purposes RTV should be used for. Only those who don't want an autonomous RTV can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you, too. I note that there is no longer any interest in explaining the vote on behalf of the groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? Yeah. I therefore open the possibility of applying to explain the votes of Members and Members. I give my word to Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you. When we discussed this amendment earlier in the plenary session, I asked all the Members sitting here, and the director of RTV, which social segment, I reiterate, which social segment that is fueled by the state budget gets more during the crisis. I didn't get an answer to that question. And not to forget, I will not support the amendment, so I will not ask. So I repeat again – now I am not asking any more questions – for social work, the National Assembly ordered less, RTV more; for social assistance – less, RTV more; for funerals, you said you would give less, RTV more; for police – less, RTV more; for the military – less, RTV more – less, RTV more; for social contributions – less, health less, education less, culture less – Madonna, culture is very important to me there – and science less Why is RTV more? [[...]] If I got the answer to that question, and I didn't get it, I would even support your amendment. So there is no answer to that question. The Director-General was happy to tweet all afternoon, and then he disappeared when I asked that question. I answer once again because I don't get an answer: because with state money you buy your beauty on RTV. That's the truth, I'm afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u251	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will not support such a solution, I must say it now and again. The least I would expect from those who have proposed such a solution is to ask what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia think about it in this given situation. If we asked that question, we'd get a clear and clear answer. And God help such a coalition, such a government that decides against the interests of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Today, this government and this coalition have proven again and shown what it is about – it is only about providing and closing personal interests, the interests of individual narrow groups, and few of them are interested in how the pensioners will live, those with 300 euros, those in the Employment Institute, and so on. They don't give a damn! Such governments, such coalitions, God forbid, must not desire or desire the Slovenian people! God help the Slovenian people! I know that the moment will come when these things come to the point that people, regardless of media support, will clearly show you all that they disagree with such solutions and such matters as you allow. This moment is very close, believe me. It's easy to laugh, it's easy to make fun, it's easy to privilege the privileged, but the Slovenian people of this, believe me, will not tolerate it for long. I trust my dear constituents and voters and all those who live in our dear country to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. The following is an explanation for Mr Franz Breznik's vote. You have the opportunity to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u254	Those of you who are now laughing on the other side ask what the term "social" means, if that means going to partisan celebrations. I think it's still a system of values. Social services think that if they go to partisan celebrations, they're social. In this case, it is clear that you are not; that this is a completely different policy. A lift RTV subscription or, as you said, a step just to fix it back. We are before the economic and financial collapse of our country. That's the wrong signal. I appreciate RTV as an institution; I appreciate RTV contributors; I appreciate contributions. I believe this is a public institution of special importance, but we're sorry before the system collapses. I think for five minutes we've reduced our salaries to a number of doctors, police officers who work for 700 euros at minus 20, plus 30, in a stink, under different difficult physical conditions, soldiers and all the rest, nurses in the tougher departments where they fight for people's lives. We have a whole series of kids, in this case, when they can't afford expensive operations outside our country, and in this case, we say, it's not enough. About seven million will make this difference, we calculated today. Since I'm social, I'm asking you what would happen if we now called a referendum and asked if we were to give seven million at this time as an additional bonus to the Red Cross, in Karitas, to help those families that built this country, whether we raise it or not. Look, this is nonsense. This is about favouring certain groups that will not participate in these difficult austerity measures. The important thing is that it's the TV that has everything. You talk nonstop about better management of publicly owned companies, and now you are doing something different. So, the directors aren't there, but just to drive these things through, they don't count on the crisis, and they don't do their job well. That's my personal opinion. I believe that the opinion of most of those who look at this crisis is from a broader perspective. I can't support it, and that doesn't mean I am. [[...]] [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u255	Thank you for explaining your voice. The following will explain Mr Jerko Čehovin's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u256	Contrary to my predecessors, I will support this amendment, especially because we are correcting that reckless move or mistake that we made when we lowered the contribution – you have reduced, but people still think that Parliament is complete. In particular, I would like to point out that, at the time, RTV's arguments were also mentioned, what will cause all this, what problems. One of them is that some programmes, including the parliamentary programme, have come into play because they have outdated equipment. The second thing that's already been said is you don't want to understand that this was part of a single package signing an agreement with the unions. Among them is a strong part of the public sector union also a union of RTV and they were negotiating in this respect. So since this is actually a common package of measures that we are taking today, I will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I wanted to draw attention to this very question, which is now raised by the principles of my colleague Chehovin. How difficult it is to reach an agreement today in social dialogue. Mr Visjak, who did this in the previous government, is probably particularly aware of this. If you remember, then you asked us to respect social dialogue and not to interfere in the details of this agreement, because a detail that is not respected can break the whole agreement. Now you are doing exactly that and you do not want to understand what Mr Čehovin said was a collective, a whole package of arrangements that must be respected as it is. If you do not agree with him, of course you will not support him, it is not necessary, because you are the opposition and we will. That's one of the reasons I'm going to back him up on my own. The second reason is that only what has been taken is that it is returned and thus ensures to the public office that it can at all implement the programme which it must carry out under law. However, to differ in what we believe to be good and what values we stand for, it has proved to be in today's debate. We believe that the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is carrying out an important mission, non-commercial content covers, devotes itself to smaller, peripheral groups, nationalities, covers specific areas of culture and so on, you are obediently affected. All of these are things that deserve to have enough resources to keep working under normal circumstances. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u259	Thank you. We ran out of everyone you wanted to explain your voice to. He wants to explain his voice to the mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Of course, this amendment, which raises the RTV contribution, I will not support. In fact, I find it extremely strange that this was a specific one, in fact it is difficult to say that social dialogue, because there was a government on one side and unions on the other. When I was talking about social dialogue, I was talking about a three-part social dialogue where you have employers, employees and government as a moderator. This was the case with the Labour Relations Act, even in the case of pension reform, we acted as moderators as the government, and at that time I called for respect for the agreement between the two social partners, who are employers and employees. In this case, however, the Government has negotiated with the unions and the Government is one of the social partners and allow me to express scepticism and doubts in this way and in such solutions. In fact, it's quite unusual for a union to want to intervene in cases that aren't union matters at all. RTV subscription, RTV contribution has nothing to do with wages in this, because this is a public sector wage system. This is said to mean that RTV employees share fate with the whole public sector, their salaries are set elsewhere, not related to the amount of RTV contributions. There is no correlation between the amount of RTV contributions and salaries. This is not a matter of social dialogue, as it is not a matter of social dialogue raising taxes or any, I don't know, price of energy and so on. It seems to me that one negotiator has gone a little too far here, and I am glad to say that I object to this, that something like this would probably never happen at some other time, and I will object.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Tanko wants to explain his voice. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Was it procedural? [[adverts from benches]] I'm just gonna ask you to apply for an explanation of vote because there are more of you. First of all, Mrs. Sonja Ramšak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u262	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Today I have been very actively monitoring your discussions on the RTV contribution, and I must say that I personally do not support the RTV contribution increase, especially because of this, which I also stressed yesterday in my question of the Member State. In fact, the RTV agency certainly has its own internal reserves and good management can make sure that the programs can be implemented according to the scheme they want and, of course, in the service of our viewers and viewers. Unfortunately, this increase in the contribution that the coalition has every right to propose is not the right measure and is actually one of those measures that does not bring added value. That's why my vote is against.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you. Here comes Mr. Franz Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that, President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll be brief because it's already late, but I think it's best if I tell you how I'm going to vote. In the past, when we were lowering the RTV contribution, I also participated in that coalition, and I objected to this reduction. Then there was a compromise solution, proposed by the National List as a coalition partner at the time and now, and we have actually eased the issue with a 5% increase or a reduction in the contribution. This time, it comes up with a proposal to make a contribution. If it weren't for the package that it is, I would have voted against it, because if we were to lower our contributions at all levels, we should actually have them here. But since I said I wouldn't support the ones you said down, or the ones you said up there, I would abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you. And Mr. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote in favour of not increasing the contribution to the RTV subscription. Firstly, because it is clear enough that RTV must take corrective action on its finances and on the usefulness of the use of public finances, as regards the usefulness of the use of contributions already paid by citizens and citizens, which has also been applied in a transparent and contrary to the legislation and contrary to the standards applicable to public institutions. Secondly, we do not really know what the added value of RTV is for this contribution. We do not know how much better this program will be, what will contribute to viewers and viewers, nor do we know how these funds will actually be used. For this reason, there are no reasons, as the RTV management also says, that this contribution places an additional burden on people. This means that the proposal actually arose, as it appears, as a cow's trade; as a cow's trade in negotiations between partners and has no real basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment. There's more than one reason. The errors identified by the Court of Auditors and also related to unplanned, unplanned and illegal discharges from the institution amount to approximately EUR 10 million. With the reduction in wages in RTV, about €3.5 million will be saved, it is added, and an additional €6 million for the RTV Public Service will come with this increase, which has been agreed on by the company. I think that the savings, rationalisation of work, the legality of work in the institution and the reduction of wages come from around EUR 13 million in the institution, and that money is absolutely not needed. However, this mode of work that has taken place in the negotiations is evidence that self-government on RTV is fully operational. To the fullest extent. We do not need RTV leadership if trade unions negotiate with the Government on corporate revenues, tax revenues and so on. We don't need any expensive administration on RTV, but we'll leave it to the unions and they'll manage it, manage the public service, self-administrative, just like they do now. Obviously, this is a system where there is absolutely everything that is needed to run the plant well. This is also why the Court of Auditors' report. Even though you are such a caring host in this country, you will further grant EUR 6 million for RTV, which will be paid by citizens. This is a logically confused action and also an improper act, instead of requiring responsibility in the management of the institution, you add additional resources to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you. I find that there is no more desire to explain the voice – I still suggest you sign up for the one who wants to explain the voice. [[...]] Mr. Peter Oder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. I'm against raising my RTV contribution. This does not mean that I am also in favour of breaking the social agreement reached by the Minister, even though it is bad, but we have it at our disposal, we have no other. However, it has been gruesome for me to listen all day to those who have been involved in the management of this country for quite a number of terms and decisions that have led to a social situation like that in the country. We've been listening all day to the building of stories, our populist stories, in 60 cents. I will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you. The following will explain Mr Janez Ribič's voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we discussed taking some measures to relieve the budget, because we know what we are in. We have barely managed to reduce the RTV contribution in the previous government, which was a great deal of work, as we have shown that savings are needed in all areas. Today we are talking about that this RTV contribution going back up again. When you step on your tail, pick up. Today, some want to buy affection and popularity so that they can rule more easily. On the other hand, measures are being implemented, mail is being closed in the countryside, there is no means of recovery where floods have been, where there have been reptiles, and we are here today to play with some thing that would certainly help solve the problems in our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you. I also give the floor to Mr. Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to oppose this amendment because I object to raising the RTV contribution. Let me remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, when before us our former colleague, Alenka Bratušek, was presenting herself as a candidate for a terminator, I wished her much success and much media support. My desire is clearly coming true, and we would probably cut our debate substantially if we asked ourselves the following question at the beginning of the debate: on the one hand, RTV has 86 million budgets, if I may say so, it will have an increase of €90 million if I round it. Now I ask you, colleagues and colleagues: Will the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia be happier, happier and happier if they watch and enjoy the programme for 90 million, and will they be happy if they enjoy and watch the programme for only 86 million euros? That's a key question. They won't be any happier, and they won't be any less miserable. Therefore, it is without prejudice to the fact that we have burned all afternoon to discuss, as far as the coalition is concerned, what we like about citizens is, of course, tragic, because they are hitting on the pockets of those who already have virtually nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. The amendments are proposed by the positive Slovenia parliamentary groups, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia. We're moving to the vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 34. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment to Article 10. We are moving on to the consideration of the amendment to Article 11. The amendment is proposed by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia Group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I open the possibility of applying for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik is giving up. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u276	Your Honor! With this amendment, the three members of the opposition group want to prevent VAT or value added tax from being raised, as proposed in the amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Coalition Budget or Government. For we believe that raising VAT at this time is a detrimental measure for both citizens and the economy. In fact, Slovenia is still in negative numbers when we talk about economic growth, so we have an economic downturn, the economy is going back to us, we are in a so-called recession, and if we look at the outlook ahead, it doesn't show any better and we are among the worst countries of the seven. All tax hikes as well as value added tax add up economic activity and we need the start of an economy to come out of the crisis, not measures that further weaken economic activity. So the measure ahead of us is harmful, reduces consumption and will also affect citizens with the lowest income disproportionately more than others. This is the least social tax since it is regressive and strikes those with the lowest income more – in proportion to those with higher income. We believe that the Government should do everything else on the expenditure side of the budget, which is to rationalise the functioning of the State, the public sector, before resorting to such measures that hinder economic activity. We are also afraid that this VAT increase will not bring the desired financial effects into the state budget and that it will be necessary, in time or soon, to cut down on additional measures. Here the current opportunity will be delayed, as some more necessary measures are being delayed when we talk about the rationalisation of the public sector. Today, I have also heard proposals from coalition types that we need a reform of the public sector – indeed, rationalisation in a wide range of areas not only in small numbers or percentages when talking about wages. You are not doing this even if it is necessary, and you are interfering with the measures that are detrimental to the economy and citizens, so the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the VAT rise and we will support this amendment, which prevents this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, he would like to explain the vote of Renata Brunskole on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Of course, we will not support the amendment of the SDS Group or the opposition. Surely any increase in taxes is not some popular and best solution, but the prime minister here stressed a good week ago that solutions are being sought and certainly the one that is least bad between all solutions. The VAT raise is not new; the VAT hike was accepted by those Members who confirmed the ZUJF, who are today mainly opposition Members. Therefore, by raising VAT, we do not harm the economy – the largest exporters. They account for the tax, today they are representatives, the driving force of economic development. It is true, however, that in these times of crisis, we must think about how to emerge from the crisis. Today, it is up to us to make our own decisions. Therefore, such a VAT raising solution, which will not represent a significantly higher deviation from the average in the European Union, will still be among the lower rates. This year it raised six countries' VAT, and this measure is not as harmful as it was debated today from nine to half-second hours at the Committee on Finance's meeting. Economic growth, job conservation – if our biggest exporters are not supported, which will not be affected by this tax, then even smaller entrepreneurs will not have a job. Therefore, I cannot support this amendment of the opposition, and the VAT hike has been the one we have been looking at both coalition and opposition MPs recently.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to explain the voice of the Members and Members? He wants to, and I'm inviting you to report. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support the VAT raise. Economist Igor Masten said: "The main features of the impact of VAT increases are the reduction of private consumption, the reduction of gross domestic product, the reduction of employment and the fall in both exports and imports." Madam Prime Minister said that VAT increases in families will be very little, i.e. only 2.3 euros of additional costs. Of course, she did not say that this is only a cost for food, but that it is still necessary to count on the cost of housing, the real water, electricity, garbage and so on, that it is necessary to take into account the transport costs, namely for fuel, and that all of this amounts only to the needs that we have in the household; that there is then something to buy for recreation, footwear, culture and so on. Unless we stop doing all this. The VAT increase, due to experience from other countries, to the Prime Minister of Croatia, where a two-percent increase in VAT caused an increase in inflation from 2.1 per cent in 2011 to 4.7 per cent in 2012. Croats quickly found that this was a bad measure, that everything had been encouraged, and that it did not bring 300 million as much as they calculated. I am sure that it will not even bring two hundred and fifty million euros to our cash register, as the prime minister's bill. In the past, especially in the time of the Pahor government, we have made many mistakes, Prime Minister Pahor said that his government has misdiagnosed and misdiagnosed drugs. Now you are doing it again, we are warning you and you do not want to hear it, but in one year we will be discussing exactly that we did not get as much into the budget as we thought production had decreased and that we, by the way, caused the collapse of some other companies and lost some more jobs. Therefore, as it is said, it is against raising VAT.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, on the one hand, to thank the government coalition as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture. I believe that, from now on, meetings under the leadership of Mrs Potter will be much easier, as there will be no more talk about saving where it is not necessary – a battle. When I spoke earlier about raising VAT, many members of the government coalition left the room or hall, but allow me to repeat my thought again from before: the feudal people have picked up a tenth, and in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek we will have only a tenth. Today we heard a lot of new, old, ideas from the Belgrade Economic School. It's, up to your neck to tax everything that walks, what lies, what creates, what produces. Believe me, I have heard many times that raising value added tax is the last measure; a measure that will only be implemented when there are no other solutions. But after the good three months of the government of Alenka Bratusek, you're giving us an opinion that you're done. So, on the one hand, I am disappointed at this active activity of yours, that we tax everything equally, that we harm the economy, raise VAT on the one hand, you know, is a measure that will equally affect the richest as the poorest, and a measure that probably also shows to the international public that you are without ideas and without exception. A weak bank had to be demolished because a lot of people should go sit down, although in these days a lot of young people in this country see that there is simply no future. I believe that many of you who support this today are responsible for this. Allow me to conclude by saying that we will pay dearly not only the present, but also the generations that are coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Shircelj is next to have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat concerned about the unknowing ease of accepting tax increases, especially those that are most burdensome. I don't know how this goes with the new Social Democracy, I don't know how it goes with liberality, I don't know how it goes with actually something new being created, because it's not going to happen here, but it's actually taxing those who have the least, given their income the most. If this is a matter of new Social Democracy, it is right to find out, it is right that you have proved this by this unknown possibility of increasing the value added tax. Of course, I will not support this because this increase in value added tax certainly has more bad qualities than good qualities, because it has more open questions than answers to questions. In fact, the financial impact of this tax is unpredictable, in fact, if this is the last measure, for that measure, which is taken at the end, it is necessary to make this clear and loud. Otherwise, this government has many other measures ahead of it, if you think about them and could solve the financial situation in a different way. The masks have fallen, we know who is to increase the new taxes, we know who is to put an additional burden on the economy and to additionally burden the population, and finally, we will also know what the effects will be and what the response to the stability programme will be. Unfortunately, these are incorrect measures at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you. And Mrs. Alexander Osterman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u286	Your Honor! As has been said many times today, the situation we found ourselves in is unenviable, not pink. We're all in this situation. The measures we have to take today, not tomorrow, not 2014 and I don't know when, are nothing pleasant, but I think it is better for us to take them, not someone else who will enforce our terms and measures. Raise any tax is not good for the economy and does not promote economic growth. However, the same or even more negative impact on economic growth is affected by the radical reduction in public financial expenditure. These are the facts. The parade horse of the Slovenian economy is export companies producing the largest proportion of GDP. It is precisely these companies that will not be affected by VAT increases due to the accounting system. Therefore, raising VAT on the Slovenian economy, which is an extremely exportable economy, is currently at least a negative measure. That's why I won't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you. We're done explaining the voice. There's more than one of you interested. I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Franz Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u288	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today I was explaining something about an economic theory. I spoke in particular about matters concerning the specificity of the Slovenian economy. VAT raise means for me the last nail in the coffin of the Slovenian economic system and the collapse of the system. Slovenians don't pay taxes, we don't collect taxes very well, and your action will soon trigger more grey economies, black jobs, you will reduce demand for Slovenian products, products. The lower layers will go into the so-called purchase of substitutes, replacing these products for lower price products from foreign producers. This will further reduce consumption mainly in Slovenian brands, in Slovenian brands. The upper part, the elite, will continue to shop in New York, Milan and Berlin. The other foreigners who have been artificially asking us, will withdraw from Slovenia for a long time, will go to their own countries, will go to the future European country of Croatia and that is what will happen. I am sure that this story, this economic policy of the Belgrade school, as we call it, can be seen by those who are in the middle or older generation, 25, 30 years ago: the departure of our people, shopping across borders, crowding in cross-border shops and total evil. Once again I warn you: do not raise VAT! Revenues may be slightly higher in two, three months, and in the medium and long term this is the last nail in our economic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u289	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Correction first. The SDS did not accept an increase in VAT. This is happening now. Secondly, I must say that VAT will have negative consequences for all those who buy technological equipment, complex technology equipment abroad. The required technology equipment is purchased to make you better, to be competitive. For some, this is charged with VAT, but not for all, because technology equipment is not only purchased by exporters. The VAT raise will mean a rise in utility services. The VAT raise will mean an increase in food, and here in this country we have a bunch of families who are currently spending all the income they receive on monthly care for a month’s service. If they have 1,000 euros, there are about 1,000 euros of it, and they will pay VAT on it. However, I would like to point out that in many better times, we have experienced a spectacle here when one of the Members brought President Janša the ticket because it was difficult in this country. Today this Member does not speak, today this Member does not have the floor with it and will vote peacefully to raise the value added tax and other taxes in this case. But I'm not voting for this tax increase myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sure that all those who have taken this decision to confirm today what is proposed, namely, raising VAT, lower and upper bounds, have not listened to your people, your people. I can't understand it, and once again I have to say it, people, economists, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, everyone has made it clear and asked you not to do it because you are doing it against your own people, against the people who voted for you. What's your conscience? What did you have to do to allow yourself to take solutions that are harmful, so to the detriment of those who voted for you? It doesn't matter who's in which party, it's absolutely irrelevant! Once again: economists, pensioners, people who are at the Employment Institute, and all those who are looking for solutions, how to survive, on the one hand, and on the other hand to provide solutions, how to create a new job, have told you that this is unacceptable for them. And you don't seem to hear it! And now you're laughing. The President of the Desus Group looks me in the face and laughs like I'm talking to someone from Mars. You can imagine, such representatives have certain groups in Parliament! It's beneath every level! I will not support this proposal because I am aware of why people have voted for me, why people have voted for the Slovenian Democratic Party – that we will not allow decisions to be taken that go to the detriment of the Slovenian people. We're not going to let that happen, so we're going to vote [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you. I think I can figure out that there's no more desire to explain the voice. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 11 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. The proposed amendments are the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would any of the Members and Members like to explain their voices? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 18. The representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia are members of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Just Mr. Visac. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u294	This is a very interesting amendment and an article that someone has negotiated again is directly harmful. And I'm going to explain why, I've already said that in the beginning. In fact, it allows direct and indirect budgetary users to redistribute spending rights from the accounts that speak of material costs to the payroll accounts. This means that what will be saved for material costs will be lost for salaries to direct and indirect budget users. And look what the trade unions of the state authorities of Slovenia wrote: "This is how, after efforts to negotiate, we have provided 99.3 million euros for the necessary redeployments." The union estimates that these amendments have provided almost 100 million transfers to payroll accounts. So, all that someone has achieved or thinks he has achieved in reducing wages will be returned and redistributed with material costs, which could be direct savings. Therefore, the failure to commit both budget users and others to work in line with the measured wage weight and nothing else undermines everything we have tried to limit the mass of wages in the public sector. This is said by these solutions, which are within the union requirements, by means of these transfers, you will actually reap a good part of the financial impact that has been expected and needed in the pay accounts or in the salaries of employees in the public sector. These 100 million rights of redeployment were assessed by the unions of state authorities, which I believe are very well aware of the budget, they also know very well what was on the table and what they have achieved, and they also know very well why they have signed in the end; because they have actually signed that they have relatively unlimited rights and that there will be no serious cuts in the salary in the public sector. However, we all find, I hope that on this expenditure side there is another reserve for rationalisation of the number of employees as well. Here you have resigned not only by this provision, but also by undertaking not to interfere with this until the end of the following year, an opportunity which is sadly delayed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment and we want to prevent these redeployments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 18, the drafters of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the People's Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48 Members and Members. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We're moving to third reading. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to Articles 10 and 12 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u296	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the implementation of the Budget Law for this year and next year because of such decisions in our amendments. Three fundamental reasons are why we oppose this law. The first reason and the most important reason is that with the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, we raise value added tax. This will further stifle, hinder the economy and thus contribute approximately 0.7 per cent to an additional decline in economic growth at the annual level. I think that this is unacceptable at this point in time, that it is at risk, not threatened, that we will be able to do so with a significant number of jobs, but I think that, in addition to the economy and in addition to these new unemployed, it will be felt by everyone on their family budget, because this tax will affect especially those who are now very difficult to get through from month to month when it is difficult to pay the costs of food, heating, utilities and other costs, which are very little affected by the introduction of such and other novelties. The prices of municipal services, for example, due to new deposits, new regulations for separate collection of waste and so on, there is a tax on this now, and for those people who are already at that poverty line, this VAT increase will further reduce the quality of life or throw them into poverty. The second reason why we oppose this law is to raise the RTV subscription. You have not served here today for any reason why an RTV subscription is raised by 5 per cent or a few million euros. Nor have you given any convincing information about where this money will go and what viewers who are paying for this RTV subscription will get — in fact, what those who have an attachment will get for it, even if they do not watch this program. In short, there is no effect of this money and the money is returned to a company or institution that is relatively irrational, as the Court of Auditors also found. The third reason is that you allow transfers to wage amounts, which means that there are additional reasons why the public sector is not limited in functioning. In fact, this will result in non-systematic, long-term damage because this sector will remain less affected than it could otherwise be, and these are harmful extensions to solve the problems of this country, which are unfortunately more acute from month to month.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u297	Thank you. There is still a desire to explain the voice of Members and Members, so I invite you to report. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We must first find that I have missed the chief government negotiator for these measures. If he was good enough to negotiate with trade unions on behalf of the government, he would probably also be suitable to explain these agreed measures to us in the National Assembly. I think it's one big flaw. I will not support the bill in particular because it brings a great deal of additional tax burden. I will also not support it because this proposal is not cost-effective because it is aimed only at increasing burdens, but nothing is done and proposed in the field of rationalisation. I will not support him for one more reason; especially because no one tells what else is agreed on, which is not in these laws. If Dr Virant's predictions are true that he has agreed on various incentives, awards and anything in the public sector, between those who are members of the unions and those who are not members of the unions, then we have come up with a situation where this agreement actually stimulates some sort of union recruitment system. when the union membership will be directly stimulated, because they will then receive different, better jubilee awards, departures and anything else. This part of the negotiations has not been explained to anyone so far, and I consider this to be a great weakness and also a great abuse of the trust of all those who adopt these laws in the National Assembly, and of those who will suffer these consequences. And there's one more thing. It seems to me that if these forecasts are true, there has been a great deal of abuse of negotiations and, in my opinion, a very unconstitutional solution and arrangements in these areas. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you. I and the Slovenian People's Party will unfortunately have to vote against this law, which amends the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. As I have already said today, it is not just some partial measures that have been attacked all afternoon, but it is sometimes true of smaller amounts, it is a concept of how the country wants to lead the country in the next two years. The amendment of ZIPr consumes an agreement concluded with trade unions, begins with the first wave of new taxes, and this is not an economic policy that could be supported in the Slovenian People's Party. As I have already said today, in this very agreement, there are also some points that border on the part of corruption, on the moral and ethically contentious work, because the fact that tax money works in such a way that government negotiators and trade negotiators agree on special concessions, for the additions of 20 per cent to the jubilee awards, with the aids, is something that certainly does not belong today and which should not be paid from the taxpayer's money. In some ways, however, it is more than obvious that there is a link, and at the threshold in which it wants to ensure some kind of road peace, public money consumption, at the end of 2014, and when this agreement comes to an end, I am afraid that we will get even more redder than we are today. As I have already said today, we are doing immorality, unethically also to our children, to our generation, which is coming, because it will have to pay for this wrong policy, which has been running since the beginning of the financial and economic crisis. We simply want to look the truth in the eyes here and, with proper and balanced measures, to reduce expenditure and new taxes, to lead an appropriate policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u301	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Jerk Chekovin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u302	Of course, no tax hikes are popular, and even if people asked, no country has ever seen a referendum support for this increase. But once again, when we do this, we do it mainly because both this year's budget and ZIPRO are completely inoperable and uncoordinated. The fact is, at the time of the reception of the baton, if I say so, from the previous government, we inherited 700 million minus plus such a famous conversion of Coco bonds, for which there was so much talk last year at this time, how will they be the perfect instrument for which various institutions will be warming up to buy it. This has also increased the country's share of the largest state bank. Moreover, the fact that we are VAT is a fact that you have already lost it. This increased VAT rate has already been wasted by the previous government. In fact, that is the case, and in practice, we need to remedy what you've been doing so far. Again, no one is happy to raise taxes. However, I think it is clear to you from the Umarje reports and also from the Chamber of Economics: if there is already an increase in taxes, the VAT is even more neutral at the moment. The fact is another thing that is very much unrecognized, especially those who boast of long-standing mandates in the National Assembly, that this crisis has not been caused by the Positive Slovenia, which runs this government for two months. You don't want to admit it either. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u303	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u304	I myself will support the adoption of ZIP that matters in the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the implementation of budgets, are going on. The VAT raise is less evil than 30 percent lowering pensions, lowering wages by 30 percent in the public sector, nurses, caregivers in the nursing homes, educators in kindergartens, and so on. I don't think there's anyone who would want that. The economy, I repeat, the biggest Slovenian exporters, Krka, Revoz, Gorenje and so on account of VAT; therefore, this increase will not affect them either. But they are important employers, and if we keep jobs, we have done a lot – we have also provided work for smaller businesses, medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen. That's a fact. People have had enough of us! All I care about is whether we want peace or maybe someone else wants a threesome. I don't want it, so I'm going to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič or more of you are interested in explanations of vote, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Of course, I wasn't going to come by, but when someone's mutilating the previous coalition, when someone's mutilating all the efforts of the previous government and lying, I have to take a call. First thing. You didn't get a hole for any 700 million, that's not true! 700 million and so, depending on the situation, it would be if we hadn't done anything. And we'd do a lot different than you who raise RTV contributions and raise contributions. That's why, of course, I won't support this marriage. You yourself said well that - and Mr. Vizjak explained earlier how you will put at material cost 100 million on the payroll. No, we could have saved surpluses in a different way. Next thing. Of course, Positive Slovenia has done nothing wrong. Of course not. However, I'm sorry, I see among you those who in 2006 shouted how people are dying of hunger, right, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, and they were collecting stacks. In 2011, they said everything was fine, and now they're raising taxes. You know, that's the thing. Otherwise, I don't see any passage on this side, and you say, "Hokus trial," and once you're a Positive Slovenia, then you're an SD, and then you're a Real. Stop it! We don't want a threesome either, that's for sure, but you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you. I give the word "magic." To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Of course, I can't support this marriage. Secondly, the increase in value added tax was not settled by the previous government. The former government has made it possible for the law to be the last measure. Only on this basis could we take this decision as a last resort. If the former government had accepted this, we would not be discussing raising value added tax today. This is how we talk today, which is why the reference to the previous government is actually a deception. Raising a value added tax won't save us from a three. This government must do much more than raise value added tax and increase excise duty in order to avoid a threesome. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, maybe all the measures listed in the stability programme are not enough. This is because these matters are not fully taken up, because they work in a partial way, because the whole fiscal system is not taken into account because no additional costs are being reduced and because it promises unions certain solutions that are not financially supported. As a result, this law is only a small fraction that will do more harm than benefits, too much harm to people, citizens and citizens, damage to the economy and financial impact on the country, the public sector will not be as planned.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u310	Renata Brunskole said a little earlier that people have had enough of us. I admit I share their feelings. I also have a lot of us together; we have been hearing about RTV contributions and VAT since 9 a.m. today. It's midnight. Everything we say at this point has been heard several times today. I ask politely for a little solidarity. After we have finished the votes that are still ahead of us today, some ten procedural proposals from yesterday's parliamentary questions, which will take us, optimistically, for another half-hour, some of us will still have an hour and a half to drive home. I ask politely for a little solidarity. Come on, let's calm this debate down because no one listens to us anymore. I'd like to see that man who's lying at home on the couch now, and he's listening to what we think at 7:30 at night.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you. Mr. Franz Puksich. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u312	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I find that the entire coalition practically sees as social that people have enough of them. In such a case, the non-trust must be lodged with the Government and the Government must be withdrawn. And do it, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u314	My friend Frangež, I agree with you that they have enough of us, but above all they have enough of these short coalitions. In Finance, look at your Prime Minister with a good fat cane, who, at the announcement of the VAT raise, predicts – those who in this, colleague Frangež, get a little better acquainted with us – 40,000 less jobs. From colleagues and colleagues of the National List, I would expect not a defence, but a sentence or two of those €700 million spent, which of course is not true when our Minister, our former minister, clearly writes for finances that no VAT raise is necessary. You know, anyway, you've come to destroy this country in two months. If we continued to work the previous government, as we have stated, there would be no change in ZIP today. This would not be discussed and would not be – I am 100% sure – because we would continue with the tasks of the bad bank because we would continue to hold the holding company and because we would continue with the structural changes. None of this is happening, unfortunately, but three things have happened, as has already been said. Because you're a unionist, you'll have some privilege. It is also surprising that you have not legislated that members of the government coalition will have a 20 per cent higher salary. Maybe you even made a deal. Virant can handle it because he doesn't know what R means on the ticket because it's free for him and his family. And so, unfortunately, you're working. I won't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u315	Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u316	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support these solutions, especially because I will by no means agree to the philosophy that there is now a need to make decisions that destroy jobs, those jobs that we have left behind. This is exactly what the coalition and the government are doing with such unacceptable solutions. I really don't understand how many times I'm going to have to repeat in the National Assembly that people have chosen us to help citizens and citizens live easier and better in our country. It's amazing that I almost always run into a deaf ear. Simply — fifty, fifty - fifty, or how many of you are in the coalition and in the government — you do not hear that! How is it possible, tell me how this is possible? People, craftsmen, entrepreneurs warn you. People who receive pensions, and so on — as I have said a hundred times — warn you that these solutions are unacceptable and harmful to almost every individual in this society. You're talking about some exporters here. Thank God we have them! But have you ever wondered who is the economic operator in this society? They're espies, parts and all that. Look at all the jobs in the back! We've damaged everything with these solutions! Ask, that's not funny! Ask the people who are dealing with it, because we who are sitting in here are not dealing with it because we live on their account. We can laugh, we can have fun here, and we don't care what's going on. I'm not! Because people stop me on the road every day because I'm always among them and they tell me where their problems are. I will never, ever and the Slovenian Democratic Party will support such solutions. No way, no way! And believe me, this is the only way to help people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you. And Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u318	Thank you. After the numberology on May 21, 2013, it is not the most unfortunate day, but only today is such a day that I almost attribute some misfortune to him. But the happiness we must accept as it is. Today we have adopted laws that reduce wages, and now we are adopting laws that raise taxes, but these are things that are bad, negative, but at the moment imperative for our country. It is no different, we must accept them if we want this crisis to be overcome as soon as possible. VAT raise is a measure in my opinion that will give immediate results, it is not a short-term measure, the results will be immediate. For the arguments that some of you have made today, I would say that some deception is public or maybe you don't look the truth in the eye enough. If you're talking about raising VAT is bad for our generations, for our descendants, then I disagree. We are raising VAT today to create conditions for our future and for our descendants. And if you're talking about raising VAT going to cause our people, citizens and citizens to go out and shop in other countries, you're probably wrong, because you know that neighbouring countries have a higher VAT rate than we're introducing today. After all, some say that food will be more expensive. It is not said that food will be more expensive because all commercial companies will not raise food prices because they want to keep prices on some level. It is true, however, that raising VAT in some minimum matters will also have a negative impact, such as economic growth and so on. But raising VAT, like all other measures, is now imperative if we are to make something out of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u319	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a decision, or there is still an interest in explanations of vote. I suggest you sign up. Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u320	I'm going to be very brief this time, but I just don't understand this bad will. We sit here for fourteen hours and we feel sorry for ourselves. Really, let's get a mirror. I have been in the National Assembly since February, the fourth exactly, and my observation since watching this on TV – Mr Frangež, I have just received a text message that I have to tell you that people are still listening to the debate. We're done here, we agree. My observation at this time, since I have been actively following politics, as well as that it is not only one garmin that has been sold to Parliament, but has sold quite a lot more recently, but has calculated what is good. This government wanted to tear down a bad bank, and today you're offering us crumbs to the hungry. You broke down a bad bank, but you built a bad Slovenia. Good night if it's such a crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u321	Good. Mag. Matthew Tonin. She doesn't want to explain her voice. I therefore note that we have completed our explanations of vote and are moving on to a decision. We're voting. 82 Members and Members, 49, 32, are present. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – questions of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the sale of state bonds. Vote explanation, Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be rational. I am also counting on the support of the coalition in this procedural proposal. Indeed, Madam President, I have asked the Government for what purposes it will spend $3.50 billion of the fresh money the government has on the table. I didn't get any answers. On the contrary! Madam President, our former fellow Member has begun quite arrogantly with her reply, including saying this: "If you consider this last debt to be a failure..." – I did not use this word in my own question nor in the supplementary question – "...then I must tell you that that October debt of yours was even more unsuccessful." And so on – I can't raise my voice like Mrs President. Of course I didn't get an answer. Colleagues and colleagues, we are Members of the people, and today we do not know where this basket of money, a large $3 and a half billion of American dollars, will go. We know what the President has rightly said, about €900 million for the recapitalisation of banks. Which, we don't know. By what criteria – we don't know. When — we don't know. Of course, I understand what Mrs President also reminded me that we are in charge of financing the budget. I don't suppose it's to save any Ljubljana Empire that has one less house today! And look, that's what I'm worried about, because we're talking about 60 cents here, and we're talking about three billion and a half, and it seems like we shouldn't be asking questions. Mr President, I also ask you, and I believe that you will realise my request, perhaps you should tell the President, at the ear of the lady, that she should not be so arrogant in answering the questions raised by the Members. Indeed, this is what some other opposition colleagues are likely to ask for. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it's a well-intentioned proposal. Here we are having a debate on the response of the President of the Government to my question of where these funds will be put. We don't need two decimals exactly; at least a hundred million exactly, and I'll be very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u323	Thank you, too. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal by Mr Jož Tank: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on Mr Jožet Tank's question on the sale of state property. Can we get to the vote? Voice explanation, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Ms Alenka Bratušek was a supervisor at the New Credit Bank Maribor for three years, from 2009 to 2011. From all the data available, we can find that the best year of New Credit Bank Maribor was the one in which the first year was the supervisor. At the end of the term of office of supervisor, the stock exchange value of the New Credit Bank Maribor was halved. With regard to weaknesses, between the beginning and the end, the bank has doubled over the years and at that time, with almost 13 million Euros of profit, it has lost EUR 17 million. When I asked the President of the Government what was the basis and why Nova Credit Bank Maribor was the first to be sold, which are the reasons and criteria, I did not get an answer. I suppose, however, that, as a supervisor in these three years, she participated in many, probably controversial decisions, although she was appointed as an expert there, then, as director of the budget department on behalf of the Government, obviously an expert, but at that time a lot of poor investment, both at home and abroad, was granted a lot of credit with the interest rate granted, even very poorly. In view of the absence of these answers, I have received all the other answers, on which I have not even asked, I propose that we take a decision to make an incomplete response to the poor response of the President of the Government to the debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u325	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on this decision. Ms Maša Kociper also explained the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u326	I would just like to recall – I will vote against this proposal – paragraph 240 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that each Member may ask the Secretary-General, the Minister, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister a question or initiative concerning the arrangements of individual matters or the adoption of certain measures in the field of government or individual ministry. The questions raised by the SDS party to the Prime Minister are, of course, not intended to discuss measures or the situation in the country, but they have only one purpose: to discredit the President of the Government. I will therefore vote against this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u327	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Explanation of the vote on your behalf, Mr Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u328	Thank you so much for saying that. The sale of property is one of the activities to be undertaken by the Government in the short term. During this sale of the assets that you had foreseen, the President of the Government said that she would be the first among the banks in the order of Styrian Nova Credit Bank Maribor. I asked the President of the Government whether this sale, the decision to sell the New Credit Bank Maribor as the first bank to be sold, is related to work in the supervisory board of the New Credit Bank Maribor. As you and I may well know, we know that if a bank were to be sold, it is unlikely that there is no longer any responsibility for bad work in the supervisory board of the bank that has led to such a bad position of this bank on the market. We probably know that. If the bank went bankrupt, it would have been similar. So that's when the dust falls on all the decisions that someone in this bank has made. What I asked is directly related to the decision to sell the New Bank of Credit Maribor, where apparently it is trying to hide its work in one way or another or the poor work of the supervisor entrusted to the President of the Government in years before the appointment of the Prime Minister. This is directly related. To show suspicion of this, several media records also show that there were certain pressures and decisions that occurred at the New Maribor Credit Bank at the time. I believe that we are obliged to know because no one has said on the basis of which criteria the decision has been made to sell Nova Credit Bank Maribor as the first Slovenian bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u329	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Frank Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Mr Franz Pukšič on measures to revive economic growth. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, I asked the President of the Government about the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, where and what will be done to revive economic growth, as she wrote in the Stability Programme. When I reviewed this programme and, in addition, in yesterday and today, I began to think a little bit more about what it means under the 13th indent of "other measures on the expenditure side", i.e. a necessary political agreement for EUR 200 million in 2014. It writes "sustainable action" and writes what will be agreed – a political agreement. It is only right that the President of the Government, given that the answers she has given, would give more of the measures, financial incentives, credits and measures not only to the previous government, but procedures that continue to go forward to explain what these policy measures will be. Whether these policy measures are related to public sector reforms, education reforms, may be linked to a change in public procurement. We know that around €4 billion per year goes through public procurement and that corruption is one of the biggest – I think Kenya is just ahead. It is true, however, that today, at the press conference, Mr Zoran Jankovic also commented on this corruption, which had the final opinion of the anti-corruption commission as a systematic corrupter, i.e. systemic corruption from public money to its private companies. So it is right that Members and Members of the National Assembly from the President of the Government hear whether this is something in connection with him and also his companies, the rescue of his companies, so of course we need to know and the citizens need to know [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u331	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to Mr Zvonk Černač's question on the state of public finances. Can we vote? We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to Mr Franz Bogovic's question on the expected financial effects of the value-added tax. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the intended privatisation. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u332	President, thank you for your word. In the light of the Minister's responses, which were weak, and especially for the reason that the current coalition rejected the classification and strategy, the two most important documents of the Slovenian State holding company, at the same time adopted a privatisation package of as many as 15 companies, we estimate that the general discussion would be meaningful, as it would be the property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and, above all, it is likely that this will be important information for domestic investors, for foreign investors, under what criteria will be sold, whether they will be public calls or not. In this general debate, I certainly expect the support of MEPs and Members of the Social Democrats, particularly the President of the National Assembly, who have had a very large number of comments over the past period that this will be the place of property, a big betrayal when we have been preparing the matter. Now you have the perfect opportunity because you want the National Assembly to focus on supporting our proposal to end the general debate. I also expect the same from the National List, which, one day before the adoption of the classification, gave an assurance that they would support it, but they did not. Double criteria. We'll see what the criteria are now. I expect you have the opportunity to make a debate on an important matter, the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, which will be ad hoc and untransparent, because they have rejected two key documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u333	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Romane Tomc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik to Mrs Romane Tomc's question on measures for SMEs. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovska, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik on the question of Mr Jožef Jerovšek on the issue of awarding to members of the boards and supervisory boards of companies owned by the majority state. Explanation of the voice, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, you know this very well, you have also expressed your appreciation for my question that in Slovenia, in recent years, in addition to looting, criminal, state property, the apparent legal looting of property through prizes to richly paid directors, administrations and supervisors; and this is a transmission of state property. If a director who is supposed to manage state property receives 150 000 euros per annum, three times more than the Prime Minister, then through the Supervisory Board he grants another 85,000 euros per annum, and the entire three-member administration receives 263,000 euros per annum, it is unprecedented, it is looting. This is happening mass. I've given the initiative to stop the government from doing so immediately. Colleagues and colleagues, many of you have expressed to me the need and solidarity that this must be done, that the Government needs help. I hope she's ready to do something positive. These people are extremely powerful, the government needs our help, the help of the entire National Assembly, and I hope you will vote on this, because this will also show your principle. Because you all said that this was a very legitimate initiative, and I hope that we will work it out together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u335	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I find that the decision is not adopted In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senko Plitčanič to the question by Dr Vinko Gorenak on the state of justice. We're moving to the vote. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mikhael Prevc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mags. Stanka Stepišnik on Mr Michael Prevc's question on granting State aid to businesses. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Mrak to Mr Andrej Čuš's parliamentary question on the employment of young people. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the costs of travelling to the public administration. Explanation of voice. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u336	Thank you very much, chairman. I think that the next question I raised in the public debate will be of great interest to you, especially as colleagues and colleagues. I asked the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration about the reduction in the cost of air services for public servants. As you can see from the media where we received direct evidence, the minister has an extraordinary talent to reduce these costs if it comes from his private flights and the flights of his family members. Unfortunately, I also received only one answer to questions that were seriously directed. In my question, I asked him what the average price of a mile in air transport was for a public official, and I couldn't get that answer; they couldn't calculate it. Above all, I am interested in your opinion in the public debate, what do you think about someone who has set some standards, who has put himself in the role of an angel Gabriel, who decides what is good, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is morally wrong, when a Member has to leave the National Assembly, the Group of Members, when we urge Members of the National Assembly and when it does not. In this case, it was an apparent damage to state property. Someone who flew in first class at a price of 5-7 or 8 times lower than the current prices on the market – of course, I think it's his turn. I asked him to step down. I think that according to his standards and standards, which we have adopted on his proposal, is entirely relevant. I therefore believe that this is a specific issue that this debate would be very much on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u337	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Roman Jakič to Mrs Sonja Ramšak's question on the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik to Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the drawing-up of cohesion funds. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before you leave the hall, allow me to read your notice. I inform the members and members of the Management and Electoral Commission that the 36th and 37th meetings of the Commission convened at 8 a.m. tomorrow will be postponed on Thursday, 23 May 2013, at 8 a.m. You will receive a written notice tomorrow, but this is the Mandate-Volution Commission. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you and good night!
