ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! With a small delay, I start the session so that we can pay special attention in at least one minute or two to our guests from Montenegro in Koroška, who invite us to Najevski Lipa, so I hope that there is not too much blood if any minute has been intended. I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Samo Bevk, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, Mr Bojan Starman and Mr Matevž Frangež. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 19th item of the agenda, the President of the Council of Justice of Mr Janez Vlaj to the 19th item of the agenda and the representatives of the government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 June 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions for withdrawal of each item on the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following the agreement of the 57th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 14 June 2013, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 15th session be extended by consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the determination of cadastral income, urgent procedure, EPA 1255-VI. You received an extension proposal on Friday 14 June 2013. I ask if the Government's representative, the bill's proponent, would like a word. I guess not. Would anyone like a word on behalf of the groups of Members? Opening login option. More interested or just Mr Grill on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? Mr. Grill, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the enlargement proposal, because it is necessary to provide a legal basis for the postponement of the cadastral income charge in the manner laid down by the legislation in force so far, because this way is unfair, incomplete and will, of course, drastically increase the payment of cadastral income. This does not mean, of course, that we will also support the proposal of the law, as it is now ready, because this content is not fully developed, so we will propose an amendment – because the proposal is now intended to increase the cadastral income by 10% in relation to the previous one – to maintain the same level this year, and above all, to provide an informational calculation to all those who are liable to pay the cadastral income, on the basis of which the debtors will be able to identify and verify that it is realistic and that they will be able to make their comments in due time. If such an amendment is supported, of course we will also support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the proposed enlargement. I would like to warn you before we vote if the proposal for enlargement is adopted, the bill will be considered as the 4th item of the agenda, which will be on the agenda on Thursday, 20 June 2013. We are moving to a vote on the extension of the agenda. I suggest you check the functioning of the voting devices. We're starting the vote. I'm calling off the vote. You can check again in peace. Do you want any Members or Members to check the voting device? It's okay. We're moving on. I'm putting to the vote extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. Before proceeding to the decision on the agenda as a whole, I would like to inform you that the College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 56th meeting, on 7 June 2013, that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Forests should be considered by EPA 1215-VI following a reduced procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. The request shall be placed on the agenda of the first next meeting of the Assembly, without discussion and vote, on the basis of Article 142(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The meeting will consider that requirement in accordance with the meeting's timetable as 1.A item of the agenda today immediately after the meeting's agenda has been set. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 15th meeting of the assembly has been set. We are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, which is the defence of the request of the assembly of Members and Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of President of the National Assembly to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Lord's defences following a restricted procedure The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 56th meeting on 7 June 2013 that the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, EPA 1215-VI, proposed by the Government, should be considered following a reduced procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Jožet Tank to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. We have a feeling that the rural area is, in fact, an inexhaustible source of public treasury charging. Already in the previous mandate, already within the mandate of the Pahor government, many measures have been taken and proposed that have affected rural areas, such as the limitation of neighbourhood aid, even with little work, and then with the Construction Act, self-building has been limited, and now that we have received these proposals from the Government at the table, this issue continues in this mandate. The change in cadastral income is already one of the laws which significantly interferes with the rural tax substance, a property tax is being announced, where this will actually happen in another area, and otherwise. In this case, however, when we have the Forest Act ahead of us, there is a solution in this law to criminal provisions, which is extremely disproportionately interfering with the penalty for an offence that would have been committed. In fact, if a person without a carrier carries out a transport of wood that is cut on a forest or non-land surface and is, for example, a value normally, if it is driven by a tractor, about EUR 100 to 150, 3 cubic metres can be loaded, it is a minimum penalty of EUR 2 000 to 5,000. If such transport is carried out by an independent entrepreneur, the penalty threatened by this solution is between EUR 15 and 150 000, which is for the value of the goods, which is several hundred euros. If the truck transport of the best forest ranges is carried out, the total truck costs about 4 000 euros and the maximum penalty is 150 000 euros. I don't know the case in this regulation if the penalty was 40 times the value of goods transported illegally. If the government, any one of them in particular, were to impose such a penalty in the banking system, for example, when a single illegal signature or an illegal signature makes a transaction of EUR 20, 50 million, a person would understand that. However, when someone who is 70 years of age is penalized, for example, and is slicing and hoarding for a few hundred euros of goods, this punishment is disproportionately disproportionate, non-stimulating. Someone who commits this offence may, with a penalty to be imposed, with all the property, be it a sole entrepreneur or, say, a farmer, the owner of the farm. And I can't imagine any government reaching out to such enormous, disproportionate, lifeless punishments anywhere. It's incomprehensible. In fact, this suggests that what is left in the countryside is practically burdened by the mortgage of the biggest criminals. You are incapable of providing penalties for the bank part and have never before been able to adequately punish those who have cheated workers who have stolen companies, entire companies with trademarks worth, for example, tens of millions of euros. Let's say any company that's been missing lately. Here, however, a substantial offence for a few euros is foreseen for the enormous penalties that are at stake. Let us take as a starting point the lowest penalty threatened for an individual or for espionage. That's disproportionate. In this way, I think it is impossible and pointless to fill the state budget with these enormous measures. There's a lot of people who've stolen a lot of things, and the right hand doesn't even touch them. We're not even able to process procedures, and here we're going to clear someone of everything they have for a few lousy cubits. If this is how the government is going to run these projects, it's not good for us. We will not support this proposal for a reduced procedure. It would be good to even make a public statement before they do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you for your additional presentation. At the same time, I inform you that there is no discussion and no explanation for the vote, so we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests shall be examined in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 34. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we proceed with our questions, I regret to inform you that Bogomir Špiletic, Member of the National Assembly, died during the period 1996-2000. Please honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ We'll keep it in permanent memory. Thank you. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 43 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government to the opposition and to the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and ministers shall reply to the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this item on the agenda, I inform you that Dr. Andrej Kopač Mrak, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, is among us, so that he can answer the questions, but he will be absent from 18.45, if I am correctly written, also mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will not be present until 16:00. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which was not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratušek, and the questions of the Members will be dealt with in the following order. First, Mr Jože Tanko, the Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. In this mandate, the public was informed of several cases of suspected plagiarism in postgraduate and postgraduate tasks. Cases relating to publicly exposed persons are particularly resonant. Among these, let me list former Member of Positive Slovenia Borut Ambrožić, former Member of Parliament and former Mayor of Maribor and current State Councillor Franz Kangler and State Councillor Bojan Kekc. So it's the politicians themselves. We can also count on the President of the Government, which means you. Interestingly, however, the rate of identification and validation or rejection of plagiarism is very different. We have the case of Franz Kangler, where the analysis of his diploma and the withdrawal of his title took place within one month, and the proceedings were completed within three months at Borut Ambrožič and Bojan Kekcu. Ambrožich was taken from his master's office and Kekcu was confirmed. In your case, it has been more than three months, and the decisions of the Faculty of Social Sciences have not yet been made, and it shows that this decision will not be available for a while, as the information indicates that the decision will only be published in a few months. Those are the predictions. This is surprising because advanced and pervasive colleges have modern schools, I can say quite revolutionary programs with which their commissions can quickly and qualitatively carry out checks and make appropriate decisions. It appears that the speed of the decision may also depend on the composition of the commission and, above all, its relationship with the investigator and also with the mentor. Perhaps this is also a political matter for both of us. Maybe that's what you think. I want to know: What is your position on the exercise of responsibility for plagiarism in higher education? Would it not, in your opinion, be the cause of such different long verification procedures, when it is in the public interest to clear things up as quickly as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you, too. I give my word to the President of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr Tanko, for the second time in this mandate. I'm glad that seems to be your biggest problem. And one more thing. You seem to know more than I do, obviously you have a better relationship in college than I do, because I don't know when this procedure will be over. But I've told myself many times that I wish this was happening as soon as possible. Of course, I believe you know it's a university, and not just this one, but the rest are autonomous, and not me, but even less you can interfere with their procedures. Otherwise, I agree that tolerance for plagiarism in Slovenia is as null as in the developed world. You can't let that happen. However, it is a fact that only those responsible can answer such professional questions, whether in certain cases it is plagiarism or not. And I don't think you're among them yet. Maybe you will, not again. Above all, I would like, Mr Tanko, to have the same criteria and criteria for all and that you may first make order in your own kind. Mr. Marinic, who was sitting with you until recently, was convicted because he sent someone else to the exam. And how about you?Oh, my God! Legal country?Oh, my God! If I read it right in the papers, I think two students who changed their identity at the Faculty of Economics have been expelled these days. You'll never get to the title of a university graduate economist. Your colleague, you had no problem with this, was sitting with you until January 31st – convicted. Colleague Alenka Koren Gomboc – convicted of falsifying a certificate. We have not heard a single word about what this means if an MEP, a politician, buys a certificate. I told you what I would do if the university found out that my master's job was plagiarism. I have a perfectly clear conscience about this, because I know how this work came about. The first person of plurality and so on, I was already involved in procedures, government procedures, and so on. But really, Mr. Tanko, you're not the one who's going to charge him. Whatever decision the faculty makes, you will never hear from my mouth that it was a politically motivated process or political conspiracy. I'm not even gonna light candles before college. I think that all politicians in this country should stick to this and our country could indeed be a rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The President of the National Assembly allowed me to ask the President of the Government a question. Now you're challenging me, I see, but the house order is like this. On the other hand, you haven't answered either of these two questions if I read them again: What is your position on the exercise of responsibility for plagiarism in higher education? What would be the reason for such different long verification procedures when it is in the public interest to clear things up as quickly as possible? It seems to me that the speed of the Commission's decision depends also on the composition of the Commission and its attitude towards the investigator. In your case, this is particularly remarkable, because the two ministers of your government come from the Faculty of Social Sciences, the reviewer also comes from the Faculty of Social Sciences and he was also a politician of Social Democrats, as were your two colleagues of the Social Democrats, and also the president of the Coalition Party of Social Democrats is a professor at the Faculty of Social Sciences. Do you think that this slow decision on the suspicion of plagiarism of your master's duties could be the reason for your political interest and the strong political connection between you, your coalition partners, the Social Democrats, and not the technical or substantive difficulty of verifying the suspicion of plagiarism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you for this supplementary question, by saying that, Mr Tanko, I must point out, however, that the President of the Government is obliged to answer those areas for which she is responsible. With regard to the Social Democrats, it is certain that the President of the Government does not have powers, but if someone participates in these commissions, of course, he is at a professional level. However, I ask the President of the Government if she wishes to add an additional reply. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u12	Mr Tanko, I said I was glad that you obviously have other problems in our government or with this government, that's all I said, because you've put 50% of the questions you asked me on this topic. And I am happy to reply to you once again that I think that as in Slovenia as in the developed world, the degree of tolerance to plagiarism should be zero. I hope this is the second time I've made it clear that you've heard, answered. With regard to the timing of the decision, once again, if you want to interfere with the procedure at the university, which is autonomous, choose, call, I do not even know how the commission is composed, so that the serious charges you have made against the professors, now ministers, the President of the Social Democrats, I think these are very serious accusations that they are interfering with the procedure of another body and are totally inappropriate for them to be made in this national assembly. I hope to tell you for the last time today that Mr Tanko, but surely you are not the one who will judge whether my master's work is plagiarism. Maybe we can start talking here in this place if I picked the same way you did, and I don't know what it would look like if I were to evaluate your graduation assignment by moving the prices of cold and sawed wood, spruce, Christmas trees and beech during the postwar period. Even though my numbers aren't foreign, I'll never let that happen. And maybe it would be right for you to once understand that there are different authorities to solve different things. But the decisions must be respected, and not disputed all things which are not your own. For you it is just as you think, but for the others it is right and should be as decided by the authorities responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you for complementing the answer. Mr Tanko has a procedural question or request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that the debate be held on the response of the President of the Government to the question raised. I got instead of answering the question, I didn't get involved in how the college authorities would judge and judge, I asked about other things, I asked why the procedures were going so slowly and I wondered if the problem was that the whole commission was made up of Social Democrats. It is run by Mr Rado Bohinc, who was a minister from the quota of Social Democrats in one of the governments, including the Vice-President of the Party of Social Democrats, the current President of the Social Democrats is a member of the FDV, says a professor at the university, and two ministers of this government. So we're talking about it. I didn't ask about the impact of interapplications on the evaporation of the human body. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u15	Mr Tanko, I warned you earlier that the President of the Government cannot answer a question that is not within her jurisdiction. And once again, the Social Democrats are not in her jurisdiction, and I ask you to take this into account in your further explanation of the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u16	I'm taking it all into account. And the answers that were. I'm not interested in me, Madam President of the Government. If you're cold or sawn wood, so much better, because what you've proposed in the forest law is a disaster. I've told you this before. And those who knew little about this area would not suggest such nonsense in criminal provisions. However, it must also be said that we are interested in these things because they are in the public interest. Political space is important. Some Members are no longer among us because of certain things. Some have been expelled from political groups and some continue to work. And it would be good to say something about these things. And one more thing. There are many other problems. Unfortunately, in the coalition, you will not even be able to unify yourself to come to the National Assembly with a suitable solution, and you are gambling here who will support you from the opposition so that you can implement some solutions. However, I would certainly suggest that this topic that I have opened should be discussed by the National Assembly and devoted to this subject as it should otherwise be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you. Procedurally has Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I must protest, however, Your Honor. Jože, I have to say, it's not my fault if we have the Social Democrats in line, Professors and Doctors, that we have Mr. Rector. We are famous for the fact that there are intellectuals in our species. When you ask the President of the Government, please ask about the country's problems, not your possible problems with Social Democracy. Therefore, I strongly object to the fact that our doctorate professors are referred to as having any political manoeuvres behind them because of their indecisiveness or decisions. When you ask, Jože, President of the Government, please release the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you. We have thus concluded the question and answers to the first question put by the President of the Government. We are moving on to another question that Mr Franz Bogovic, Slovenian People's Party, will ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u20	Have a nice hello to all of you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! I believe that we will agree that the question I am asking you is a question that concerns all citizens and citizens and is very important because I am asking a question in relation to tax policy. This is one of the key policies of each government, each country. In recent days, the proposal for a new real estate law submitted by your government's finance minister has been strongly reflected in the public. I am aware that this is an initial version, it is a public debate on this law. However, we cannot escape the fact that the concept of this law is quite different from what we have asked it, and since you have not identified yourself so far, it is right to know your position as well. This is an important matter, for we have been basically saying all the time that with the new real estate law we will make the translation of the existing compensation for building land into a new tax that will be linked to the value of real estate. It is also everywhere in Europe that this is a municipal tax. By putting this tax in such a form that the state will now collect half of these taxes, you are also in some way taking the basic housing, spatial and economic policy of Slovenian municipalities. The key problem that we see in this tax is that, after the government has already adopted and also Parliament, the VAT that will reach into the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers with 280 million will be enforced on 1 July, now, with a similar increase, you intend to increase the property tax that Slovenia and Slovenia own. It is a very important question, because we touch all citizens, and citizens, pensioners, workers, farmers, craftsmen, all those who, in our circumstances, have invested through their lives in a variety of specific circumstances in other comparable European countries, have given up many things in order to have a peaceful age. With the tax that you now anticipate, this can, in particular, represent one to two pensions for vulnerable populations, a large proportion of what has come over the years, a large number of businesses, and the craftsman will also have a difficult situation in these difficult situations. That's why I'm really interested in your position: How do you estimate that this measure will affect the social situation of individuals, families, pensioners, i.e. property owners? Do you actually assume that the Slovenian economy, including craftsmen, entrepreneurs and farmers, can transfer an additional direct tax at such an amount to their property in all the difficulties they face?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you for asking. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for the question, Mr. Bogovich. The proposal for a real estate tax follows the plans set out in the 2013 Stability Programme. In fact, we are all aware that when we adopted the fiscal rule, you have also repeatedly said how important it is to consolidate public finances. We have somehow received a short-term extension period to reduce the budget deficit or the public financial deficit below 3% of GDP by 2015. According to our assessment, there was a wrong policy where there was only saving. The fact is that the government has already intervened on the expenditure side, both yours and ours, and there is something additional to the reduction of expenditure, so it is right, according to our assessment, that we are also interfering on the revenue side with the increase in the fiscal expenditure of those tax measures which have the least detrimental effect on economic growth, consistent with tax theory and experience. The biggest impact or negative impact on growth is direct taxes, such as income tax, corporate income tax and social security contributions. However, consumption taxes, including environmental taxes, and property taxes are least harmful to growth. The government also decided to significantly increase the fiscal expenditure on real estate taxes because these taxes in Slovenia contribute a relatively low share of GDP, about 0.6%, and in developed economies this share may be three times higher. As you yourself have said, the government has also decided to retain part of the property tax in the state budget and thus ensure a reduction of the budget deficit as we have imposed it. And the sharing of income from property taxation between different levels of the country in Europe is not uncommon. It is said that the property tax after the new tax will no longer be intended only to replace the revenue of the municipalities, but also to contribute to the consolidation of public finances. The bill is in public debate. The tax rates proposed are indeed slightly higher than they are today. For residential properties, the fact that income is estimated slightly higher is also the reason that not all properties are covered today because we still have municipalities that do not collect compensations for the use of building land. As I said, the law is in public debate, and I can say that we have been particularly careful in preparing analyses to determine the tax rate for business and industrial facilities. This is determined approximately at the level of current effective taxation, so that income from this Title is expected to be approximately the same as today. As it is said, the main reason that we have decided to do so is that, at this point in Slovenia, taxation is relatively low in comparison with other developed economies and, according to our assessment, the consolidation of public finances is in no way possible to recover or carry out only by interfering with expenditure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear President, first of all in the stability programme, we have written down that two-thirds of the consolidation of public finances will be done with savings and one third with new taxes. We have already made about one third of this new VAT, and there is already a tax in the drawer on remuneration, and we are now adding this real estate tax. On the expenditure side, it is accepted the truth of the lovingness of what was adopted by the ZUJF in the past year through so many times, with a few small additions. You were alone behind this pay phone when we were taking this package, saying there was another savings package coming. I estimate that now it is more than doubling, from almost 190 to 470 million, a property tax. You said so yourself, especially the owners of residential buildings and agriculture is the one that will pay, the economy is similar. I made a very simple calculation myself because I know how many hectares of agricultural land there are. Your assessment, by a very conservative method with low value estimates, is that Slovenian agriculture is able to pay 100 million euros in new taxes. I assure you from this city, publicly and responsibly, that this is not possible and that you are aiming so badly at this population. On the other hand, believe that the structure of ownership is disproportionate to the kind of ownership structure in Denmark and similar countries where they have otherwise invested in these properties in the past. Our people were building, giving up a lot of things to have a quiet age. Now, your government's assessment that pensioners with 400, 500 euros in highly rated locations are also able to pay two, three pensions for this tax. I believe that public debate will bring about substantial and radical changes, but above all it is not right for Slovenian municipalities to tax even on their schools, kindergartens and that this is a source of tax. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer? I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u26	Although there was no further question, one more time. The law is currently in public debate. We are still at the point where consolidation should be carried out as you said, two thirds on the expenditure side and one third on the tax side. It just doesn't mean one year, Mr. Bogovich. The stability programme has been developed for a period of time. After all these years and measures have been added together, put 2012 next to where you have radically intervened in certain expenditure, you will find that this is still true. And it's preparing, I'll say, a new savings package. According to our assessment, as I said, the tax you are talking about is a tax that will have at least or at least a negative impact on economic activity in the country. A lot of young people want to buy an apartment, but they can't because the prices are too high. The whole population needs to be looked at. Not just one or a few generations. According to our assessment, the bill is fair. Those who have more will pay more taxes. I have already said at the last presentation of the stability programme, and I still think that we will have to open a little broader debate in Slovenia about whether or not our people are ready to go on some Baltic road where they have radically reduced rights, abolish public education, public health and so on, so we can also have lower taxes, or still be prepared for a slightly greater solidarity and social state, but we will therefore have to pay more taxes on the one hand to those who do not have anything on the other hand, to ensure the minimum that, according to my assessment, everyone deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Bogovic will make a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Madam President, I would very much like to see you speak in the National Assembly about your government's tax policy. Unfortunately, little has been written in the coalition agreement and measures are also coming one step at a time. I am not your opinion that you are introducing measures that are least harmful to the Slovenian economy. I believe there are many things to talk about in this tax. Speaking of taxes, it is right that we are aware that public standards will also be possible if the economy survives if craftsmen, entrepreneurs, farmers survive. Therefore, I propose that this substantive debate be held at the next meeting and that we really take a responsible look at citizens and citizens in the eyes and say where we see the opportunities for consolidating Slovenian public finances. As I have already said, this is not the opinion that in the Slovenian agricultural area it is possible to collect in addition to the already increased cadastral income another EUR 100 million of property taxation. We know that the entire realisation in agriculture is a billion a year, and the conservative assessment of assets is that your government's expectations are 100 million new taxes. Certainly Slovenian pensioners who built these apartments in the 1970s, 80s, 60s did not expect to pay 2,3 pensions in the autumn of their lives for this tax if their location is still in those parts of the country where the value of the property is so much higher. The experience that we now have from the first real estate tax trial, the experience that now stems from the controversial introduction of the increase in cadastral income, we know that the records are also very weak in the Slovenian space, so I think it is right that we are going to make such a tax thoroughly, that we have these simulations and that we will not be able to do what happened to us again, that we will, as at this meeting then ad hoc, amend the laws that bring a great deal of confusion into this space. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I think it is right that we meet with this issue at the July meeting, and I believe that we will also have to talk about the stability programme that we have written down and other things. The debate in this national assembly on this subject, I think, is more than necessary and desirable, so I propose that such a decision be taken to discuss my issue at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenija, will raise the following question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u30	Dear Madam President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I'll continue where you've finished before. The difference between our government and your government is that our government has tried to balance public finances by reducing spending in the public sector, and your government is trying to balance public finances with additional, excessively additional taxes that will heavily burden family budgets and the economy. But we hear that farmers are also deeply concerned. There is a fundamental difference in two policies. We know that we will receive higher VAT, a new property tax, a rise in cadastral income, we have also heard new penalties and so on. It seems that the destruction of the Slovenian economy, agriculture and family budgets has not yet begun and ended, as you announced at the beginning of your mandate. You have shown us to reduce the purchasing power of the population by excessively saving and thus further hinder economic growth. Unfortunately, your actions so far have reduced purchasing power much more than ours, and you do not give the economy much hope. A selective solution to firms in difficulty can quickly be turned into a solution to those with relationships and knowledge. That's what we're worried about, too. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Do you still believe that you can boost economic growth by additional tax burdens? Above all, we are interested in your government's actions for new jobs and the start-up of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. The difference between your government and our government is that we are still defending a solidarity and social state, and you started decomposing it. And I still stand on the fact that the right combination on the income and expenditure side is the only right way. Where the actions of your previous government have taken us, we see. Almost a 5% drop in economic activity in the first trimester of this year. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we were right to warn you when I was still a member of this National Assembly. And these are naked facts. These are numbers not prepared by the government, but by other independent institutions. As I said, I think that with the right set of measures on the revenue and expenditure side, we can have a significantly better impact on economic activity than only the savings you have advocated in the previous government. I will be really happy if you all come together once, including Mr Bogovic, who spoke earlier, step in front of our people and tell us where on the expenditure side, and we will again be with the pensioners who were mentioned earlier, we can cut 20% by 30%. Just saying yes is nice and easy. Although I have made a set of measures for economic activity for the last time, I will tell you again today. But since this is about specific numbers, I'm just gonna read it. As part of the continuation of existing long-term dedicated measures or SID lines, an additional €400 million of long-term resources will be provided in 2013. On the basis of these and new sources, up to thousands of enterprises and maintained or created up to 50,000 jobs will be supported at the annual level. For the period 2013-2014, the content of the incentive development platform and the increased budget of this platform will be expanded. Of this, €595 million in 2013 is €90 million as an increase in the existing financial engineering measure to promote technological development projects. This, however, has been ongoing since 2011, and the scheme will be increased to EUR 240 million. So far it's been 150. Of this, €30 million will be budgeted and €60 million will be provided by the SID Bank. In 2013, companies will be provided with an additional €140 million to support around 30 enterprise projects that will generate at least 2 000 new jobs in different regions of Slovenia, €5 million to implement the second phase of the Microfinance Action via the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which means financing at least 200 micro and small enterprises, €100 million as a new financial engineering measure to finance small and medium-sized enterprises’ development projects, of which €20 million is budgeted, and €80 will be provided by SID by the Bank and this new financial engineering measure for small and medium-sized enterprises will be financed from 100 to 250 investments or enterprises. EUR 400 million as a new financial engineering measure to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, of which EUR 80 million is budgeted and 320 is provided by SID banks from other sources. This latter is a completely new measure, representing the potential to finance at least a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises and to maintain or create 30,000 jobs. All institutions are currently preparing a pool that will be accessible in one place. Companies will be able to see this on one website. As soon as it's finished, I'm going to pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thanks for the answer. Mrs Ludmila Novak has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u34	Dear Madam President! I also refer to Mr Sam Hribar Milic, President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who said that such moves are in direct contradiction with the coalition commitment and public promises to support the new start-up of the economy. The Chamber of Commerce thinks you're destroying the economy with new taxes. The increase in the business property tax, the additional taxation of temporary and temporary work, the tax exemption on the termination of a fixed-term employment relationship, etc. are also announced. We are also in New Slovenia for the social state, but this means that the economy must also be strong so that it can finance it, but in particular we support social support for those who cannot afford it themselves, and we do not want to renationalise the assets of those who have produced a lot of their work, but now they will have to pay excessive taxes on their wasted assets. The question is, don't forget. There, the president of the Chamber of Commerce announced that you would be called to a meeting, and he is not interested: What did you say to the Chamber of Commerce, or what would you do if you talked to them?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? President of the Government, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u36	The Chamber of Commerce has sent us a whole set of measures that we are proposing. We're coordinating them with the Ministry and we're going to answer it with how and what. Once again, my personal assessment is that it is certainly more right for the tax burden to be placed fairly on one side. Those who have more pay more taxes, those who spend more pay more taxes. Those who don't have will not pay the property tax. And that seems important to me to stress every time. If we are all together for a social state, then I am confident that we will find a model that will ensure a secure future for our citizens and citizens. But with the cutting of pensions and even the unconstitutional cutting of pensions, just as you did in the previous government, it's not exactly shown that you care about the social state. I really think it would be right to open the subject in Slovenia: if we want to have rights, but we are talking about free education, we are talking about free healthcare more or less, we are also talking about maternity benefits and more, we all have to decide together whether we are going this way, but then we need to provide some more fiscal capacity. Yes, with economic growth and some new tax. But if you are defending another path, just saving and saving and cutting into rights, then unfortunately there will be little fighting from the social state. And, as we say, according to our assessment, the combination of measures that are ready will certainly have a significantly better impact on economic activity than on savings alone. Of course, the results will be known a little later. The results of the work of the previous government are unfortunately already here, and this is almost a 5% drop in economic activity in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs Ludmila Novak has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u38	The issue of new jobs is indeed a very topical and pressing issue, so I propose a general discussion in relation to Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, of course, because I am not satisfied with the answer. I know that women in politics have a particularly difficult task, I will not go into detail, but I would expect a little more flexibility and tolerance from the President of the Government. As Members, you may be able to afford this more and to a good extent, you said that you would not be impatient, that you would not accuse, but the tone of your voice continues to betray you. I want more women in politics as well as a more considerate president of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you. I also conclude the third question. We are moving on to the fourth question that Mr Franc Jurša, Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia, will raise.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, a nice greeting to everyone in the hall. Someone has already said today that they will not talk about just one population in Slovenia, I will talk this time about the older population, which is strongly linked to the younger population, active, working, because this is a full pension box. I'd like to ask the neighborhood for some attention. There has been a lot of talk recently about the reduction of pensions, which we strongly oppose in our parliamentary group. The pensioners are among the most vulnerable groups of the population. In 2013, about 280,000 pensioners, a poor half of them, received a pension of less than 500 euros, which means they live below the poverty line. At such a high cost of living, they are burdened with even higher health costs and the cost of providing care to the elderly. The country appears to be in the position that it should also be cut in this population, regardless of which party is ruling. The DeSus Members are making great efforts not to go too far as this cutting cannot go. Over the past years, we have negotiated at least partial reconciliation of pensions; in 2013, they will be coordinated, while a complete freeze has been proposed, including the annual allowance, the pension regression, we have chosen him for pensioners with lower pensions, and Kad's funds are intended for the pensioner. And that's thanks to us. Once again, the DeSUS Group will not even allow this government, because somehow we will not agree to a reduction in pensions this year, nor in 2014, because we cannot place the entire burden of the crisis on our oldest. Instead of providing them with a safe and carefree autumn of life, he repeatedly tries to put them on the brink of survival. From the mouth of public figures, including influential politicians, there is a populism statement that pensioners have not yet contributed to the crisis. We absolutely deny it. I therefore ask for answers, Madam President: Are you planning any austerity measures in the area of pensions in 2013? How much did pensioners contribute to saving public finances from 2010 to today – we want a precise and clear response? When it has to spend 50 million euros each year to coordinate pensions. These funds have not been fully used in previous years. We want to know: What will happen to these funds? What are you planning in the field of pensions for 2014?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you. You know, Mrs Novak, it is difficult to stay polite in the attacks you are having in this National Assembly, and I want a lot of things in Slovenia, and it would be essential, significantly different, if I could also tell my colleagues and colleagues from the former coalition, your coalition. However, as regards pensions and questions, whether we are planning any austerity measures in the field of pensions in 2013, the answer is no. There will be no additional measures, in addition to those already adopted, in 2013. How much did pensioners contribute to saving public finances from 2010 to today? As regards the measures taken in the area of pension and disability insurance, it is necessary to take into account that, during the period 2010-2012, measures were taken to interfere with the mass of pensions in such a way that pensions were not harmonised at the level provided for in the basic or basic legislation. It must be made clear, however, that there has not been a reduction in pensions, unlike public sector wages. And according to the data I have available, the savings on these measures were around €194 million in 2010, up to and including 2012. In the amount mentioned above, the savings on the reconciliation of pensions or the non-conformity of pensions, I will say, amounted to 140 million, remained at the expense of the reduced payment of the annual allowance to the pensioners. The figures mentioned above indicate a savings taking into account actual annual expenditure in relation to the mass of pensions, as they amounted to after each year. And the fact is, the pensioners in this part, I'll say, the non-valorisation of pensions has contributed, and you've never heard of it on the government side either. However, the fact is that, unlike some other rights, pensions have not been reduced. To your basic question whether any additional intervention or measure in pensions is envisaged in 2013, the answer is clear: no.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thanks for the answers. Mr Jurša does, however, have a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u44	Given that I have also asked you, Madam President, what you are planning in 2014, I would also ask for this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you. I repeat my word to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u46	The government will strive for the financial stability of the pension fund. The goal is certainly to avoid interference with rights. Given the debate in this national council that it is better to interfere with rights than to raise taxes, I am not sure that we will be able to avoid it. However, I promise Slovenian pensioners that any intervention will not be counter-inhibited, unlike last year's.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you for complementing the answer. I note that we have completed this by asking questions to the President of the Government and thank her for the answers given. We turn to the question raised at the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, will answer Mr Dragutin Mate's question about driving an official vehicle with blue lights on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The question is about driving our ministerial colleague. This issue, whenever such a situation occurs with these blue lights, is very sensitive and would explain first what the legal regulation of this issue is and then its opinion on how this should be applied in practice. That's the way it is. We have a rule that speaks of vehicles with an advantage and vehicles for escort. This Regulation allows or provides for the installation and use of devices for the provision of special light and sound signals indicating vehicles with an advantage, including on vehicles of national authorities used for the transport of persons protected under the Protection Regulation, irrespective of the level at which they are protected. However, it states in the Rules that this is allowed to carry out the urgent and urgent tasks of the State authority. I would say that the Minister is the one, each minister individually or every protected person who must carefully and responsibly judge whether in a particular case it is such an urgent and urgent task of the State authority, which is of strategic importance for the work of the State authority. It is said that it is in the individual responsibility of each individual, each minister in particular, not to abuse these provisions of the Regulation. Let's say I'm not using these things myself, but I would use them if it were a matter of some kind of urgency and indisputable matter, as set out in the Rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Mate has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your reply, which was technically extremely correct, I must say, you have listed all the rules, but here is a small problem. The problem is that the Regulation first defines the vehicles of State authorities carrying protected persons. The regulation, which speaks of protected persons, in the regulation, if I am very precise, says very precisely, "fourth-degree protected persons" to which the Minister of your party also belongs. And the fourth point says, "the fourth-degree security in a situation of potential danger does not include direct physical protection measures." This means that, for ordinary citizens, to translate, the minister is not driven by cops. He's being driven by a chauffeur. I want to know: Are drivers driving other ministers, and did you say that they all have blue lights, which, of course, I don't think is right, trained under a special program to drive vehicles with the advantage of blue lights and sirens? That's the first question. Second question: Do all the vehicles of all ministers have blue lights installed, and where is the legal basis for this? I want to know: What are these emergency rides? Two emergency rides have been recorded. The first time the Minister rose too late and was late for a meeting in Ljubljana. His driver should know that a road jail is a roadblock, that traffic is blocked and he should be driving to work like everyone else. The second ride is a little less clear, in Podsmreka, which is why I addressed this question to you because the police replied that he was using the light justly, without any explanation as to why he was driving on the highway instead of 130 kilometers per hour 162 kilometers per hour. . Travelling to meetings when someone is late or late for work or from work or going from point A to point B is not necessary driving. Emergency driving with advantage is very precisely defined in the law. That's why I think it's like this. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you. Is he trying to complement the Minister's response? Here you go, Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u52	Now this particular observation, why the minister or his driver used these blue lights, would not comment because the minister does not even have the opportunity to answer what happened that day. But I don't think he was in a hurry because he got up too late and couldn't come to the meeting. Of course, this provision of the Regulation is not intended to do so either. Once again, the legal basis for the use of these signalling matters or this signalling exists. It is called the Rules of Procedure for vehicles with an advantage and accompanying vehicles. It is not a condition for such a vehicle to be driven by a police officer, the condition is that such a car can only be driven by a person who is not a driver of a beginner, has a valid driver’s licence for at least two years, has not been legally convicted of the offence of causing a traffic accident, there is no criminal offence of leaving injured persons in a car accident without assistance and there are no other conditions under the rules. So that's a possibility. This Regulation was issued in 2010 and is applicable. And it also seems to me that there is nothing wrong with this rule, that it is the right thing to do. And once again, I'm going to say, these things need to be used restrictively and with a great degree of responsibility, because they're not written down to say that someone should come to a meeting in time because he got up too late or something. Of course not. However, if there is a situation in the schedule of a head of state authority, such as a minister, things are so crowded that it has to appear at the next meeting, which is important, necessary, strategically important for the ministry, at a certain time, and otherwise it would not have been possible for him to make use of it because of his schedule. So this should be used responsibly, cum grano joke, as they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Mate has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to discuss this answer in more detail at the next meeting. But what I'd like to say is that the rules speak of when lights can be used. At the same time, the Minister did not at any point answer me how the drivers of other ministers, who are protected at the fourth level, are said to be all but three, how they are trained, under which programme, when they have been trained to drive these lights. All the other drivers that have these lights are real cops, ambulances, firefighters, all of them have to take a special training course. Only in this way can they drive safely, even for the benefit of the minister, any one, with these lights. Driving with blue lights is something completely different than driving normally. And I did not get an answer from the minister, when and where the particular driver or drivers of all other ministers were qualified to drive with blue lights. It is certainly not the minister's responsibility to decide and impose on the police officers who drive it or other persons that it is now the right time to drive with the blue lights. At least in one case, in a particular case, it was a very important strategic meeting, I agree with you, Minister. However, the driver who was coming for the minister knew in advance that there was a road jam to fix something, and he could come in time for the minister. He didn't come from a meeting. He came from home. And the citizens aren't too happy to stand in a column, but by the way, the minister takes a blue light that they don't drive and doesn't protect cops we don't know about, whether they're qualified to drive or not, and they're happy to drive past a standing column because he's up too late. In another case, the matter is even more vague. It is unclear because the police sent a message – so I also addressed you – the police justified the event for the public. They said, "In accordance with the law, an emergency transport was carried out." No explanation for the emergency transport. We don't know why the minister was in such a hurry this afternoon. Maybe he was in a hurry to get home this time. That's not how it works. We cannot explain these rules in a broad sense, as you are now here defending or in the midst of an answer, but we must narrow them down. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 at the next meeting of the National Assembly, we hold a debate on your reply and on how and how our ministers are transported past the standing columns of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Mr Zvonko Černač, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Justice Minister Dr Senk Plitcanič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! We recently held an extensive debate on the state of our judiciary at the request of our parliamentary group in the National Assembly. In this debate, unfortunately, it has been shown that some, especially those currently in the benches or chairs of the ruling coalition, are not aware of the seriousness of the situation or in the judiciary. This is also supported by the conclusions you have drawn from the ruling parties in such a way that the impact of this debate and the findings that have been transmitted will be null and void. In the last 15, 20 years, a lot of ink has been shed on the state of justice, and a lot of words have been said, and a lot of analysis has been done. Before our country's entry into the European Union, German Judge Dukoff analysed our situation in detail. Then, 10 years ago, in 2003, he found that we had 774 judges per 2 million inhabitants, more than twice as many as in Germany. Today this figure exceeds a thousand, it is said to have increased by another 50 %. We have twice as many judicial staff as the average in the European Union, with an average of thousands of 37 per million inhabitants, with this staff of 2 000 96. We spend €87 per capita, the average in the European Union is more than twice lower, slightly over €41. However, the information that speaks of efficiency and responsibility is reversed. The situation of the prosecution is also comparable. We have judicial backlogs that are significantly longer than in comparable countries, many rebuttal cases are outdated or will be, many have not even started, and a lot of energy is invested in the persecution of politically incompatible individuals. The situation is even worse than it was years ago. Despite the human rights overriding justice, the system is ineffective, bureaucratic and does not survive so much self-reflection as to be able to respond properly and responsibly when its articles make serious mistakes, when they accuse or even condemn without evidence, when they commit an injustice that can no longer be corrected. On the other hand, such a system allows minor actions to be processed, while large fish will not be available for a long time – either due to inexperience and incompetence or, worse still, by connections allowing abuses of the judicial system and the execution of mounted processes without evidence. We're worse than we were in another country 25 years ago, at least they tried to produce the evidence, if it wasn't there, without evidence today. I therefore address the question to the Minister: What, in particular, will you do to establish the rule of law and to prevent the actions of prosecutors and judges who, under the cloak of independence and independence, abuse legal norms and thereby destabilize democracy and justice? I want to know: In your opinion, are Mr Masles and Mr Fisher able to bring about the re-enactment of justice and the prosecution? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Dr. Shadow Plitschani.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With much that Mr Cernac has said, I can agree with a lot of what Mr Cernač has said, I have said many times myself, especially the part that relates to the lack of efficiency of the whole judiciary, which is the case of the judiciary, the prosecution and many others, but in fact these two systems are key. When you ask me what I'm going to do, you ask me something that I've already talked about in this House, and I'll repeat it briefly. I will do everything in my power and authority. This is, in particular, a change of legislation, so I will propose, I already will explain a little more precisely in the following way, changes in the type of legislation that either directly or indirectly regulate the functioning of the courts, the State Prosecutor's Office and other systems within the framework of justice, such as notariats, lawyers, the judiciary and so on. All of this with the aim of quickly, yet qualitatively and thoughtfully changing the bad situation in the Slovenian judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office, which is a poor or unsatisfactory situation, as the State Assembly found in the debate at the extraordinary session you are mentioning. I agree that this objective needs to be achieved quickly, and we no longer have time. I also agree with this, at least, from your point of view, that in recent years, virtually since independence, no one has really dealt with this major problem facing Slovenian justice: the lack of efficiency, the lack of adaptability to today's time, the lack of awareness that both systems, the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office, the modernisation, the change of way of thinking and, in particular, the way of action, the change is achieved as soon as possible, you have also talked about this when it comes to autoreflexion, the self-criticity of those who have key functions within the judiciary and the state prosecution, and who are actually responsible for monitoring the situation in both systems, responding to weaknesses, the failures in the functioning of both systems, react and inform the public. It's a whole bunch of things that I've been saying myself since I took over last year's term, and I'm not saying anything else in this year's term. What I am particularly pleased with is that, similarly, they are practically speaking the same way or suggesting, they are commanding almost, the European Commission and Greece. If I judge from the debates of Members, both the existing coalition and the opposition, and if I leave the nuances in defining individual qualifications, including conclusions and the like, I think that we are all or are all sitting in this House united, that we need to quickly, this is important, quickly and thoughtfully on the other hand to achieve significant movements in a very short time in enhancing the efficiency of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office. What am I going to do alone? I have already taken the first step in this direction by adopting new laws on courts and judicial services two weeks ago. It is the laws that will be discussed in this Parliament tomorrow, i.e. the general debate. Here I count on and hope for the full support of both novels both by the coalition and by the opposition. Both novels contain quite a few important solutions, which I believe will make an important contribution, once they are implemented in practice, to the achievement of the objective I spoke about earlier. It doesn't make sense that I'm putting this in detail now because it's gonna be an opportunity for this tomorrow. However, I would like to say that these amendments are the first important step in this direction, in order to create an appropriate set of rules of conduct at the legislative level, which, as has been so far, will be different from those of the courts, in particular the Presidents of the Courts, who are most responsible for the effectiveness of the courts and, similarly, in the State Prosecutor's Office, more than ever committed to the responsible and effective work of the organisations they run. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and then continue in the second part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Cernač has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u60	Dear Minister, a respected former colleague! I'm afraid that won't be enough. All your predecessors have gone this way. When the patient was very sick when he was first helped with aspirin, then with worse medication, but today is not the case. We no longer have a patient who is seriously ill. We have a patient on the table who can barely breathe. And the question of if he could be helped by electroshock or worse. Above all, the question is whether those doctors who wanted to help him so far can help him if they do not know why he is actually sick and why he is on this table. I fear that the commitment you have signed will not have a significant impact, nor will the changes to the legislation that are now on the table. I think there will be a need for cleansing in the judicial and prosecutorial types, a thorough cleansing. So cleaning that can only be done by the prosecution and the justice itself. However, if he wants to carry out justice and the prosecution alone, he cannot, in my opinion, carry it out under the current leadership. The burden that has been borne by both Mr Masleš and Fisher from past activities, from participating in non-democratic processes or processes, is too great to be a vehicle for this process of reconstruction. They've been responding to them lately, too. Let us recall the Balkan warrior, where criminals were released, even though the same evidence was valid in Italy, Serbia and some other countries. The case of a clean shovel and so on. All of these cases have shown that gentlemen cannot handle the necessary self-reflection, which is necessary in such cases. So there will be a need for a change at the top. That won't be enough either. A thorough change in procedural legislation, the establishment of responsibility for decisions, including substantive decisions, will be needed to increase the expertise of prosecutors and judges by tightening the conditions on who the judge can be and who the prosecutor can be. Finally, there will be a need for a symbolic overhaul. Judgments are still being issued on behalf of the people. Is it true that judges are accountable to this people, or is it just the blue sky over them? I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Do you really think Mr. Maslesha and Mr. Fisher will be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you. I repeat my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you. If I continue, it would be with this very starting point, which you have handed down yourself at the conclusion, that is to say, the judgments in Slovenia and elsewhere are issued on behalf of the people and we are all responsible to this same people. You, Members and Members of Parliament, us, ministers and all other public officials, including judges and state prosecutors. I would also like both systems to be more aware of this fact, so, as I have said before, and more than once in public, I will do everything in my power to make this happen as quickly as possible. Of course, I can do what I can do, what I'm responsible for. However, I am responsible for the relevant legislation, which is either indirectly, as I have already mentioned, governed by the courts, the State Prosecutor's Office and other systems, and I am also responsible for some other things that are not directly related to legislation, such as the education of judges, state prosecutors and other judicial officials. I think that education is something that has actually been virtually abandoned in the past. It is true that with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, there has been the establishment of a special centre for education in the judiciary, which operates within my ministry, which is intended to ensure that all those acting within the framework of justice, with different forms of education, which not only involve law, knowledge of the law, but also of the kind of other skills and skills that a person, especially a judge, must know better than is seen in judges and judges currently operating in the Slovenian judiciary. The same applies to state prosecutors and others in the Slovenian judicial system. So I intend to strengthen very much, to extend the training processes of judicial officials. Then there is another set of instruments, which also does not belong to legislative changes, but falls within my competence. These are all changes related to information, digitisation or home-based implementation of different solutions based on the use of computers and other solutions from the information technology framework, which can make a very important contribution to the rationalisation of work in the courts, in state prosecutors and elsewhere and thus contribute to their greater effectiveness. I will engage myself as much as possible in these three sets, but of course the legislative changes are crucial, so that much of what you yourself have said will have to be changed, but it is not now covered in both the novelties I have mentioned, namely the amendment of the Law on the Courts and the Judicial Service, which comes immediately after that. The commitment you have just mentioned accurately foresees what will change by 2014. So what I'm going to be like as a minister wasn't suggested to me as a government to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Chernač has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you. Unfortunately, the honourable Minister did not answer my fundamental question, which was whether, in his view, Mr Maslesa and Mr Fischer could bring about these substantive changes in the Slovenian prosecution and in the Slovenian judiciary. And he did not answer the question of what are the substantive changes that are supposed to occur in the procedural legislation that would finally enable Slovenia to be based on justice and the rule of law. For this reason, I propose that we discuss this response on the basis of the rules of procedure, because the cases that we have also discussed in the debate on justice speak of whether Slovenia is even a country based on justice and the rule of law, or whether this fact is simply written in some documents that are blank on paper. It is important to ask whether the characteristic of countries based on the rule of law and justice is the fact that on average there are almost a thousand days of economic disputes to be decided on average. Is it a characteristic of such countries that individuals do not come to justice within ten or more years? Is it the characteristic of such countries that are based on justice and the rule of law that judicial cases are dealt with in the face? In cases where it is necessary to protect members of the former regime of a friendly elite, procedures are swift if they are, of course, attacked, or slow and outdated if their interests are attacked. I've already mentioned some of them in the introductions. Let me mention a few more. We have a case against a police officer who threatened Mr Janša with liquidation at the time of his service to the then Prime Minister, and the procedure has expired. He received, I think, even some distinction for this, but we had a similar procedure of threats against the former Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, where the perpetrator was sentenced to 11 years in prison and, as we were informed, he is still sitting in this prison. Whether dealing with identical crimes against whom they are committed is the characteristic of countries based on justice and the rule of law, let us ask ourselves. Procedures, say, where there's interest, age, Satex, Elan, when the judge didn't write the judgment in time, Sikura and so on. However, many of the most serious criminal proceedings were not even triggered in the case of many hundred million loans in state banks. For example, we have a case where someone was filmed, a former Member of the Social Democrats, when he was in the European Parliament and they offered him 100,000 euros in prizes to vote for a proposal and he also accepted this promise, proven, the sum was proven, the place, the time, everything was known, but so far, as I have been informed, no procedure has been initiated, except that he was convicted of such an act at the first stage. On the other hand, we recently witnessed on June 5, when someone was convicted without any evidence. These cases are as many as you want, and I think it is right to re-publish them in the debate and finally find out who is the bearer of this transformation of the judiciary and the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you. Procedural mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not the first time we have heard that justice has acted badly because the attempt to attack the Prime Minister has been prevented. I think it is unacceptable that this matter is repeatedly warmed up as a case of once a verbal threat, and secondly a purely concrete intervention and a threat to an individual. If these cases are of unequal treatment as much as we want, then I would like to know whether they exist, and this is my procedural proposal, what information is there about the number of cases of threats against operators of important functions in this country, I think of the Prime Minister as they would stop manipulating, because I think that many people don't even know what happened at the time and what was done and how they were also threatened by the police who then intervened on the train. It would be good for some things to wake up and ask once again to get some information about how many times the life of an important official in Slovenia has actually been compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you, too. With regard to this procedural reason, of course, it is more reasonable for the Member or Member concerned to put it alone in the form of a question or an initiative to obtain this information. Of course, the procedural proposal itself cannot be implemented today, so it will depend on whether someone will decide to ask this question, trying to obtain this information as a Member. Mr. Blackach, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Madam President, the Rules of Procedure have just been very gravely violated by the Member of Parliament, and it would be appropriate for you to respond to this, if not, in accordance with what I have just said in my question. In view of the fact that the rules of the game obviously also apply to one another in this National Assembly, the same rules of the game and to the other. So if you're on the right side, you can ride with the blue lights, if you're not on the right side, you can't ride with the blue lights. And there's something like that here. Mrs Majda Potrat had a classic theme for the question. It has therefore violated the procedural proposal, it would be appropriate to warn it, to remind it publicly in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. If you do not do so, you will be in breach of this Rules of Procedure. But of course – there is only blue sky above you. Just like the judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you. I must also warn you that you have passed the Rules of Procedure, and you have not been able to see the procedural question. And I'm a magician. Majdo Pótre pointed out that this procedural issue, which has been raised, is substantively linked to the question or the initiative that an individual or an MP can give, and I think that such action is also entirely correct on my part, and we continue with questions. But, Mr. Chernač, you have a procedural process, if you immediately make a procedural proposal, if you do not put it in place, I regret that I cannot allow you to abuse the instrument of the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u70	It would be best for you to read for yourself, Mr President, what it says about this procedural proposal in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It says, as you know, that a Member who wishes to talk about violations of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall give the floor immediately. And I have notified myself, in accordance with this provision of this Rule of Procedure, of the debate, of the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by Ambassador Majda Potrat, and also of what you should do in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. First of all, you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as President of the National Assembly, because you did not warn the Members that it had violated it, and secondly, you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you have made it clear to me that I did not have a procedural proposal in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you know is not true, because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are in question, and only I ask you not to do so in the future, because once you have done so, you will create a truly firmer conviction, which is already very strong in the public, that the rules of the game in this country apply to one another and to the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Blackach. Look, this is your view and it's not good to try to spread it to the general public. I am trying to lead the meeting properly both to the opposition and to the coalition and to these proposals. I think I've given a very correct warning as to what content this is. Mr Cernač, if you are already reading the Rules of Procedure, then you also know that it is the President who interprets the Rules of Procedure at a given time, and it would be very respectful if you would respect that. Here we go on the next question, namely, Mr Franz Pukšič, Slovenian People's Party, will raise the question to the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you, President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues have a nice greeting! This complication, which was, as President of the Business Commission, I am really worried because things have been repeating for a while now, since we have a new coalition. And here we go to the question of the House of Representatives, Minister Virant. Mr Minister, you recently stated that the country could date about 100 municipalities less than we have. I asked you a few questions in the six indents correctly and you'll probably answer them. But before I say in defence of what I'm about to say, I think this position of yours is about as firm as the statement of the Mayor of Cyprus, Popovic, when he said he would give up when the pope resigned. The Pope has resigned, Popovic is still in his place. That's why I don't believe in making this statement. I can, but I don't think you'll be able to do that. Why not? It's because of these arguments that I'm going to count. Minister, we both know that the indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities is about a million and a half or about 300 years less than will be invested in the New Ljubljana Bank by recapitalisation. This means that the Slovenian municipalities could be indebted for 300 years, but they also worked and created investments. Cost of employees of officials in Slovenian municipalities – 6% of the budget of municipalities or 120 million for slightly less than 5000 employees. According to the information I have recently, the number of employees in the state administration has increased, and I believe that we have many too many different agencies and directives. I think we're unique in the country when we have directors of the Directorates, director of the Directorate, director of the Directorate. Yeah, because they're probably better wages. When I talk about investments, the approximate estimate is about 70% of investments are made through municipalities, only 30% across the country. If we had regions, this relationship would be slightly different and the situation in this country would be significantly better. Even the use of European funds, you might tell me, would be better, according to my data there will be about a million and something in Brussels of this money. The Slovenian municipalities have only 12 % of the state budget and in Scandinavia, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister to answer Mr Puksic's question. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. There is no formal proposal in the form of a law or in the form of a concept to reduce municipalities at this time, so I think that the debates and that this raising of the dust we have witnessed lately are essentially premature. When the concept is developed – at the Ministry we produce it in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance – then it will be time for us to rethink and discuss how many municipalities we really need in Slovenia. I stand personally for this assessment that we have overly fragmented Slovenia, that we have too many municipalities and that management would be significantly more rational if we had a smaller number of municipalities and if we adhere to a legal condition that the municipality can only operate if there are at least 5,000 inhabitants. This has been established since 2010 by the Law on Local Self-Government. After 2010, it is not possible to establish a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, but the smaller ones remain behind. In several of its decisions, the Constitutional Court stated that the National Assembly was arbitral in the establishment of municipalities, that it acted arbitrarily, that in certain cases it established a municipality with less than 5,000 inhabitants, and in other cases it did not. At times, congregations were established even past the will of the people expressed in the referendum, on the second occasion, where the referendum gave a positive outcome, no municipalities were established in the National Assembly. In short, it was very, very arbitrary, very fast, very over the finger and many times as a result of some political deals and purchases. This is not a good concept of local self-government. We now have many settlements in Slovenia and places that we might want to have a municipality of our own have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, so they cannot have one. However, those who have come through on the basis of such arbitration since 1994 now have their own congregation. And here's one big, big inequality. I see many reasons for reducing the number of congregations. Firstly, if we take only the costs of meeting and paying officials, this is the least important thing in the whole story in essence, but this in itself amounts to about 10 million per year. So 10 million would be parlayed at the annual level only with salaries and meetings and so on by mayors, sub-districts and members of the municipal council. And I'm saying that this isn't all that big of a deal yet. The number of employees in municipal administrations has more than doubled since the beginning of local self-government, while the number of employees in state administration has been decreasing since 2005, as opposed to what you said. Consistently, gradually, it decreases. This information is known, published publicly on the website and maintained. In municipalities, the number of employees is increasing. Initially, it was envisaged that municipalities should have one employee per thousand population. Today this number is more than 2.5 times higher, the actual number of employees in municipal administrations has doubled. The smallest municipalities, those of 2 000 people, spend 25% of their budget on the functioning of administration, officials and employees. And that's not the most important thing. Most importantly, we have atomized Slovenia, which is already a relatively small country by population and territory, to 212 small municipalities instead of concentrating on human resources and financial resources. If financial and human resources were to be concentrated, and I am referring to the municipal budgets, as well as to the European funds obtained from the calls for proposals, this money would be used significantly better. Look, Denmark, Ireland, countries of comparable size have drastically fewer municipalities. Denmark has 98, Ireland has 83. And for the end of this first part of the answer. We will not take anyone's right to local self-government, we will not take anyone's municipality, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has a constitutional right to local self-government and is exercising it in the municipality where he lives. Even if we unite the municipalities, the people of Slovenia will exercise local self-government in the municipality in which we will live.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u76	Minister, the years have shown, from 2004 onwards to today, in the nineteen years that what you say is wrong. Purely ordinary statistics do not always apply everywhere. It is true that this is segedin, but it is necessary to look from the perspective of what is happening and what is good in this country. Why cancel, destroy what's only good? Of course, it can have other purposes, but later on it. You were talking about Switzerland, Denmark and so on. The neighbouring Austria has 2 000 300 municipalities, and more than half of municipalities have fewer than 2 000 people, Switzerland has about 500 people per municipality, or more municipalities have fewer than 12 people per municipality. Germany, for example, has 10 inhabitants, as well as 11,000 and several municipalities. Unfortunately, this information is not discussed in the Member States of the European Union. Around 120,130,000 municipalities are in the European Union. And, of course, all that you say, Minister, Meetings and so on, look at the debt that the congregations have made and the percentage of the investments they make in front of the country. And if that debt for that meeting, which is decimated by people, is, if you want, as valuable as it is on the other hand, when bureaucrats from Ljubljana manage or manage it, as it is managed. You have to admit that it is the rural communities that have become the developmental cores and, Minister, there would be many things. Slovenia is now one of the few countries where more than half of the rural population, if they did so, today Osilnica and many others, the Halo municipality would have been empty long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Minister? Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u78	If I substantiate a little more, I will illustrate what I said earlier about the dual concept of local self-government in Slovenia. In Slovenia, one week of the population lives in municipalities with less than 5,000 people, i.e. in municipalities which, according to the concept, would be united, joined or joined by municipalities that have one week of the population. Six seven people already live in municipalities of more than 5,000 people. When the Law on Local Self - Administration was written in 1994, this limit of 5,000 was not in mind. At that time, the profession found that, according to the tasks envisaged by the municipalities, that 5,000 inhabitants were the right ones, the normal number should apply to all Slovene municipalities. Then there was the start of the treachery on the congregations, and the one who was the strongest and fastest here was evicted by the congregation, and the other was not. Then some municipalities had this privilege of having their mayors as members of the National Assembly, but others did not. Here there was a great inequality between Slovenian places, given the different concepts of local self-government, given the privilege of having your mayor in Parliament or not. That's how the differences were made. The State, the National Assembly, and the Government must view Slovenia as a whole and ensure that conditions are the same everywhere and that there is some rational governance system in the country. The municipality is 212 and 211. The 212th we know which one she is. And believe me, in 211, 212 municipalities it is very difficult to exercise effective control. Ask the Court of Auditors how it feels about the operations of Slovenian municipalities. There's a lot of domestic business. There's a lot of domestic business. More than the municipalities, there is less scope for effective control by the budgetary inspection, by the Court of Auditors and other supervisory authorities in that country. So once again, no one in Slovenia will lose local self-government, that is constitutional right. Of course, I am very well concerned that this is a sensitive area, so here I am not going to run with my head through the wall, but we will thoroughly debate the matter within the coalition, including with the expertise, find solutions to how this process can be done so that it will be constitutionally intact, that it will be legally corrected. When things are ready for us to have an argument, [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will, of course, present them to you, including the opposition parties, and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 246, I propose that we hold a discussion on the response with the Minister. I started with doubt. And now, as you have concluded, Mr Minister, that you will debate within the coalition, that my doubts are all the more justified. I won't succeed, just like Popovic did when Pope Ratzinger resigned. I'm not gonna make it either because you're saying you're going to be inside the coalition. You won't. You won't change the coalition of these things inside. You won't change them because you're too small. Therefore, no, because it takes 2/3 of the majority or matters are enshrined in the Constitution, the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which we have adopted here. The fact is that by establishing congregations in any way, they were established in this national assembly. I agree with such or other lobbying. But by speaking today, because some municipalities also had mayors. But when this was over, there was a lot of damage in this country. It would be more beneficial if teachers, doctors, and others who are employed in the National Assembly were not to do double work with the saints of the great city’s Ljubljana Congregation, which is among the most indisposed. But of course it doesn't work, because it's bad from individual lobbying: me to you, you to me. In view of this, Minister, that I have sent you six letters, which I have mentioned in the first place, but I have not received a single reply, let's just say stuccoing your estimate of the revenue of 200 million euros, whose municipalities you will abolish or in what way or respect the Slovenian Constitution, which you can now ask, without any costs, those you would have abolished, how and what, I am more confident that these are probably two matters. Or is it a so-called political bone that throws people, instead of dealing with the transfer of certain things from administrative units, from the Ministry to the medo-cultural administrations, because we could do this in municipalities, we would be dealing with building permits, with a spatial plan for investors to come to the country, we would be dealing with the 2014-2020 development programme at regional level. In short, these are the reasons and if the coalition wants something good, it will also support the possibility of this debate to have one proper debate. It's not about throwing bombs, it's about having a debate in the National Assembly once before, like doing something, which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Dragan Bosic will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Dr. Jerney Pikalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the activities of our top young researchers, who have proven themselves several times in the Synthetic Biology competition. In fact, it's one of my paradigms, slowly becoming, questions that are about them. Over the last five years, they've won three times. They're always on the stairs. Their work has a useful value if I use this term, it is said to apply, it is related to some new technologies, new materials, ecology, energy. I want to know: At this time, is any of this large set of achievements already implanted or implemented in our environment or technology? What exactly is happening to them, what is happening to the continuation of their study? According to the reverberation of the results themselves, once again, in the competition category, universities such as Princeton, Harvard, Cambridge and many universities from the Far East are constantly defeated. I would also point out that it is even more important to me personally because they are a product of the public education system. This means that the level at which all these global elites compete has been achieved through the public education system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Member, thank you very much for this question. I'll say so. Synthetic biology is one of those skills that actually creates so-called fundamental science. From basic science to commercialisation, it usually takes quite some time, and usually also money, because we usually need a lot of resources, both human and financial, to get from basic knowledge to what we call applied knowledge. What we do at the Ministry with this extraordinary team, not only with this extraordinary team, but, by the way, we try to create the conditions for such an extraordinary team as you said, which fruit or product of this public education system, to have the best possible working conditions. To this end, I must say that activities are taking place at three levels. The first level is the so-called European level, which is what we call the so-called ERA projects, the European research area projects where this group is involved in the ERASynBio project, allowing them to then continue to be members of the international consortia and so on, meaning integration and consequently not only preservation, but also improving the quality of operation of this research team. The other is what we do with programming groups and projects at national level. Here too, Professor Jeral as an outstanding scientist has our support. Of course, we all know how these funds go to go through the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, I think your question is going in this direction, which is the direction of integration of industry and this so-called fundamental science, and so-called centres of excellence. And this group under the leadership of Professor Jerale participates in one such centre of excellence. is called EN-FIST. These are systemic conditions, creating opportunities for these researchers, and of course for young researchers. As far as young researchers are concerned, at least those who are involved in the system of education for young researchers, i.e. the doctorate, I can tell you that although the resources for science this year are very cheaply limited and do not actually allow these regular calls for all scientific disciplines, we are still working at the Ministry to get these young researchers, i.e. those who will be Ph.D. this year, to find a way – and I think that we have found that as many as one nice number of them can be involved in the so-called European funds, but now really under the recommendations of the sub-doctor projects. So on the one hand, we're creating conditions, on the other hand, we're looking for the possibility that, despite the extremely limited means of science this year, we're trying to keep these brightest, the greatest talents of this country, so that they don't escape us abroad, where then we would have brought someone to a doctorate for someone else, that is to say someone abroad. I think it would be, or in some way, a national disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u85	Request for complete response. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u86	Actually, it's not a supplemental requirement, it's a continuation of concern. I support your efforts, but I'm actually worried about one thing: response time. You named Professor Jeralo, who is behind all these achievements, but I didn't, I didn't talk to him about it. But one of the students from the 2010 team, from a team of winners who then, as an individual, won the 2011 bionanotech contest in Boston, left us. The response time in Boston was 48 hours. Two days. It's a Ginkgo BioWorks company that offered him exceptional conditions. If I continue in this sense, of course I absolutely support matters and the direction of thinking, but I think it would be very important. Tomorrow we will talk here about the law on scholarships, where we will invest in people who will then be picked up by some, with only one competition organised. Perhaps it is good for the Minister of Economy in this area to recognize some potential in these young people. We talk about how not to export the log because it is unrelated, it is better to saw wood or maybe make a chair or toothpicks. But this is a top-of-the-line, technological option, which is actually based on these basic sciences, as you yourself said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Yeah, I think we're talking about the same thing. I think we have another problem in this country. It is true that we have on the one hand, I think that a radical reduction in resources for science has occurred in the past year. We must not forget that a generation that has not received this funding will not be restored. If we have some serious plans, then we must continue to finance this, or we will have holes in generations – extraordinary, and now we are talking about extraordinary people. But another problem that I would also like to highlight and that we face many times on the issue of centres of excellence, and even more of the competent centres, as ways of linking industry to science, is that at this point the absorption capacity of industry is very high. The industry also does not currently have a large absorption capacity, not for the absorption of personnel, nor for the absorption of patents, which often require investment. And that's it. Of course, we will not be able to solve everything through public funds. In fact, we have a shared responsibility here, on the one hand, to create the conditions for us to retain these young extraordinary talents, and on the other hand we have to give them an opportunity in the economy, in the industry, to create and, let's say, a decadent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ivan Grill to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! A few days ago, we were able to hear or read that Nova Ljubljanska Banka voted in favour of 500 million recapitalisation and that it is facing capital adequacy, with large losses, multi-million-dollar losses and in general projections are not promising. We were even more surprised when we could now read that the employees of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and their business partners had a very expensive party, drove a gocart, chartered sailboats, and had so-called team building, and this, last but not least, to every taxpayer who will only have to recapitalise this bank now with their means, arouses an unpleasant feeling. They feel played, and it is justifiable to do so with their money in such a luxurious and irresponsible manner and, on the other hand, for the need for new financial resources. Another example is that of lending to such persons who have already proved to be weak in the past, and I am speaking in particular about Mr Pogačar, who has already received €41 million of bad credits, according to the data we now have, still owes him about €18 million, of which, according to information of a confidential nature, 13 million unsecured, it means that it is irresponsible that they have now given Mr Pogačar or his companies a credit of €750,000. Given that the country now owns more than 90% of the New Ljubljana Bank, I would expect the state or institutions that manage it to act responsibly against all those responsible for such credit, I believe that it is not the only one, even now, to approve again, and not least, that it is allowed to do so irresponsibly. Since this party, which I have already mentioned, there has also been a public dilemma about buying a prestigious car, and more and more of these events have caused a bad feeling. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister of Finance, on the basis of all this information, and not least of all the facts, will you take action or what sanctions may be expected by taxpayers to continue in the country's largest bank, which, after all, violates the reputation of the bank and the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u91	Mr. Minister Urosh Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u92	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. I do not know the first or second case, nor do I know if they are real, but I might point out that corporate governance in Slovenia determines that the management of business and the determination of the bank's business policy is under the authority of the administration. And it is the management that must ensure and ensure that no unnecessary business costs occur on the one hand or that they are as low as possible and that the lending policy is such as to result in the repayment of the loans in question being reimbursed. I expect them to make sure that these two cases are the same as they are, if they already exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u93	Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, these cases that I have cited have also been called upon by the media, so I believe there is something on them. Maybe things can get so much better in the sky. I don't think we'd write if we didn't. Even if corporate governance provides that all responsibility in the administration is certain to be the responsibility of the State, of course the finance ministry or the government, so that the administration thus acting is not responsible, also adequately sanctioning. According to ownership –90 or even more per cent, which is now by the state, any such "access" that occurs can be taken appropriate action, not least by replacing the administration if, of course, this is the way it is done or acted. See, also the response of the responsible person who gave such credit, and of the other case to the specific question by the journalists, was very arrogant. At least that's how it is to be detected here, they didn't want to comment specifically, but they simply managed to report these issues or make a statement to the public. I think that this is irresponsible and in such cases, of course, action should be taken, and therefore I expect you, as Minister, to be interested in these particulars and to be able to act appropriately through the powers you have. So I ask you to answer: Will you take any steps in this direction in the future? Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, do you think there is any need for an additional response?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u96	Maybe just a brief explanation. As I said, it is the responsibility of the management of business or business policy-making. However, the supervisory board shall be responsible for the administration and supervision of the functioning of the administration. Such examples are certainly a matter for the Governing Council to examine whether there has been any abuse or irrationality. And then I would also point out that the central bank is in fact legally determined to verify whether the bank is operating in accordance with the rules primarily in the part relating to risk management and lending, whether it has been properly done or not. I think that these two bodies are the ones that are most competent and also the most qualified and at the same time the only ones empowered to actually investigate everything in concrete cases and, if necessary, also sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u97	Here you go, Mr. Grill, you have a proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you very much. See, for this very reason, because the Minister has not been able to give an appropriate answer here, or this answer has certainly not convinced us Members and Members, as well as the public at last, it would be useful and useful to have a general debate here in the National Assembly, not only in this case, but in such cases. If we look back on history, not too far away, maybe two years ago or a few years ago, all these bad business decisions were responsible for both the administrations and the supervisory councils, not only in the New Ljubljana Bank, but also in other companies, but their responsibility was for such bad business decisions, which were probably related to corruption, and we can also say criminal decisions with others, but nothing happened. Nothing happened. And it is unacceptable that it should continue to do so in the same way as it did in the past. And if the Supervisory Board does not take action and, last but not least, the Administration on these matters, which I have highlighted here today, it would be right for the State to act then as well. You also have the opportunity, through voting rights, to replace supervisors in the assemblies or to require sanctions. That is why I think it would be right to hold a general debate on this and other cases here in the National Assembly for the benefit of the country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Grill, will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 18 June 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you! First, one comment on the rules of procedure. I think it would be more fair for Members to ask questions in a timetable, as announced. I have no objection to my colleague Puksic, because he is an experienced mayor, but my question was raised earlier. Dear Minister Gregor Virant, you have made a statement to the Slovenian public that you could date about 100 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Me too, I must say, it was your idea, so to speak, from the minister's chair, that hurt. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Is it true that the government intends to reconfigurate the local government's well-functioning system overnight until the next local elections by autumn next year? Can you present analyses and calculations of potentially saved money by abolishing municipalities? The Ministry of Finance doesn't have them. Have you calculated that the amount of last year's total budget deficit of Slovenian municipalities, which is a thorn in the fifth Court of Auditors, is perhaps 600 times less than the amount of EUR 900 million you intend to throw in NLB and NKBM? Will you go before the citizens and tell them in their eyes, as honest men do, that you are unwarrantedly canceling their congregation, which they decided to do in the referendum because they want to live like this? Do you not feel that the possible reconfiguration of the local self-government system does not need to be well thought out and, above all, to be carried out in agreement with all local communities and on the basis of the consensus of the adopted strategies? Do you not realize, Mr. Minister, that the municipalities have been created by free will and are intended for citizens rather than for ministerial ideas that change from mandate to mandate? First of all, the increase in funding for municipalities in the 2004-2008 mandate was a far-reaching idea or project of regionalisation and now the abolition of municipalities overnight. I believe, Mr Minister, that you know the European Charter on Local Self-Government signed by the Member States of the Council of Europe, including the Republic of Slovenia. I believe you know the principle of subsidiarity, which the European Union so strongly underlines. Are you aware, Minister, that you will reduce the quality and accessibility of services for citizens? Are you aware of what small congregations have done only in the area of infrastructure construction? Mr Minister, I urge you once again to think carefully and thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath for a moment. At the outset, the President of the National Assembly, at the beginning of the debate, said or stressed that the order in which questions were to be raised was determined on the basis of an agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would suggest that you possibly align this matter with the leader of your parliamentary group. We're moving to the answer. Dr. Gregor Virant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Horvath, this is probably one of those points where we will probably never conceptually come together, despite our very good cooperation so far, especially when I was alone in the National Assembly and also mutual respect. We have a different opinion here. I have advocated this thesis for a very long time that there has been a lot of wrongdoing in setting up local self-government in Slovenia and that the territory of Slovenia has been too fragmented. This is one of my constants, as I have always advocated the redesign of the referendum system, which eventually happened, as I advocated the abolition of the State Council, which I have failed to do, so I also advocate a reduction in the number of municipalities, which I will not, of course, decide for myself. But I consider it my responsibility to try to do what I think is right. I can't do this alone. I'm gonna need support for that, at least, in the coalition. And today it is very difficult for me to assess what the chances of success of this project are. But at least what it is, but I have to try. A lot of dust has been raised on this issue lately. I've noticed that myself. I believe that most of this dust has risen in those municipalities that have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. It is likely that the local officials of these congregations are especially on their feet, who have great influence at local level and can also convince and convince their locals that they will have a lower standard without the congregation and what I know. I don't think that's true at all. I think that in Slovenia we could fully have a higher standard and that we could better spend money if we didn't crush it as much as we do now – at 211 and 212 municipalities. It would be much better if we focused and spent it on some bigger, more important, stronger projects. Once again, there is no formal proposal yet, so we have nothing to discuss at this point. The analyses are available on the website of the Ministry of the Interior and all the reasons why the municipality needs 5,000 people to be able to carry out its tasks normally are already available in the works from when the municipalities were formed. It is no coincidence that this limit of 5,000 was recorded in the Law on Local Self-Government. The profession insisted, saying that this was the minimum, given the scope of the tasks laid down in the law for the congregations, that the congregation could normally carry out its duties. Once again, what are the main reasons for me to defend a small number of congregations? Firstly, we have double criteria in Slovenia and a dual concept of local self-government. We have a whole set of congregations that have been established with a population of under 5,000. We have a number of cases where such municipalities have been rejected, and we have a period since 2010, when it is no longer allowed to establish municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. So we have some kind of dual local self-government and inequality in the right to local self-government. Second, costs and rational spending of money. Starting with that less important matter, 10 million at the annual level, as I said, could only be saved for salaries and other payments to officials. We could save a lot of money in municipal bureaucracy, and even more could be saved if the money now scattered, broken down to 210 ends, were pooled into a few larger municipalities, and we could also undertake larger, more important projects. Today, small congregations cannot run larger, more important projects. But taking care of sewerage, plumbing, school, kindergarten and so on, of course. There are some criteria here for how many people we have to have primary school, we have to have kindergarten, a healthcare home, and so on. And this must apply to the whole of Slovenia in the same way. It can’t depend on whether someone has assembled a congregation or has not acquired a congregation because it basically produces an inequality in standard. And I fear that today there is this inequality in the standard of public care. Experts often point out that because of small municipalities in Slovenia we have a high degree of centralisation. On the one hand, we have a strong country, but on the other hand, we have these small, small municipalities, including with fewer than a thousand people. A hundred or more of them have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, who are very, very difficult to please with the congregation. So much for the first part. As I say, I have arguments, you have yours too, but in the end, the democratic majority will decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u103	Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Initially, I just wanted to call for a possible revision of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your thought. Of course, this is not the end of a democratic debate. I just can't get out of my mind, because suddenly there's a 5 grand limit, a magic limit of 5,000, but they don't take into account the economic potency of an individual congregation and so on. Mr Minister, I firmly believe that if we abolish small rural congregations, we will empty the countryside. See, not long ago, a few days ago on national television, somehow with a laugh was shown to my little neighboring congregation, the Odranci municipality, and it hurt me that it has only 6.9 square kilometres and a thousand 650 inhabitants. In fact, if we look at this congregation from an economic point of view and somehow prevent the day - to - day migrants coming to work in that congregation, this congregation does not have any unemployed persons. Another time. Do you know which congregation is the most successful after drawing European funds on the head of a citizen? The one who has a thousand 500 people, three employees on the municipal administration, of which one is for a certain period of time. That's how these things go, Mr. Secretary. It's just that magic limit of 5,000 I don't get, and it's very hard to accept. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you agree that 70% of public investment in the Republic of Slovenia is currently under way in the municipalities? Here's the question, when is this government going to launch under your tactics, under the tactics of this government, any public investment? We both know, Mr Minister, that money for investments made at municipal level is being spent extremely carefully. But it's local self-government. The municipality also has its supervisory authorities, its supervisory board.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u105	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u106	This is where we agree. We need investment to start the economy, but I don't think we're going to be saved by investments of the size of the municipality with thousands of people. In each municipality, in every Slovenian place, basic infrastructure must be taken care of, children must have the right to school, all must have the right to public health. However, the investments that will drive the economy are, in my firm belief, something else. Nor will the municipality and municipal bureaucracy be the one that will save the economy or cause economic growth, but it will be necessary to create conditions for the economy to function, not to strengthen bureaucracy either through municipalities or through administrative units or through agencies, ministries or whatever. Many investments are turning local, I agree with you, but once again, only one week of Slovenian population lives in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, so we are talking about a relatively small part of the Slovenian population, while 6 weeks live in municipalities with more than 5,000 inhabitants. And this limit is not some magical limit that would be drawn to the hair, but it is a limit that has been written in law since the very beginning when we decided to reform local self-government. It was then written that it must have an area of at least 5,000 inhabitants in order to establish a municipality there. Then there were some exceptions. And these exceptions were used by force arbitrarily, once a municipality with less than 5,000 inhabitants was established, in the second case no, once a referendum was taken into account, the second time it was not taken into account. In short, very, very much there was political arbitration, lobbying, as my colleague Pukšič freely admitted. This was how the congregations were established. And if we want to have some order here, some equality of all, some order, then these criteria should be taken into account for all equally. And let this measure the 5,000 inhabitants. In local self-government there is another category that works very well in larger municipalities and is called the local community. The local community is also a kind of local community that operates in a narrower area. The municipality takes care of tasks of wider importance, for some wider municipal care, for health care, for schools and similar matters, while the local community in a smaller area cares about what is of local importance: local roads, road cleaning, some local events, firefighters, cemetery management and so on. And things are very well divided. But we have a situation where the lowest level of local self-government is a municipality that has a thousand, a thousand, 500 inhabitants, and it has to take care of everything by law, and it also solves the problem of municipal waste management and municipal waste management, which it cannot.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Horvath, you have a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think that in his reply, the Minister has also indicated the need for an open democratic debate and that, through this debate, we will come up with some optimal solutions. I am in favour of each local community, which also applies to companies, to ensure that business is rationalised on a permanent basis, if I may say so. This is where you mentioned, Mr. Minister, the local community. I live in a congregation where the statutes of the local community were abolished because we saw that they were meaningless. However, we have village committees which are not legal persons and are a consultative body to the municipal council and in village committees there are also municipal councilors from that village and it works very well. See, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because of the urgency of this debate that I propose, under the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the replies of Minister Gregor Virant to my question. For I am not the only one here, I am also thinking that perhaps this idea of yours is exclusively a political project designed to centralise the country, to strengthen the left in large municipalities, and at the same time to destroy what is actually good for people. Or is it your idea, Mr. Minister, to encourage a debate on the abolition of municipalities and quietly adopt new and new tax burdens on citizens? I hope not, but let us also explain this in the debate I propose. Maybe you didn't understand me earlier when I was talking about the Odranci Congregation. I want to show it to the Slovenian public once again, that this is where you have to visit it once more, not only this municipality, but also other small rural municipalities, that is where economic operators grow like mushrooms in the rain. The Minister of Economic Affairs will certainly be pleased with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Horvat, will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 18 June 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! My question is brief, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport create conditions for the implementation of the school in nature? There are at least two reasons for this question. Social Democrats are convinced that quality public education is the basis for creating a knowledge society, and so a fundamental development issue, and not so much a financial one, which some are trying to turn into when they claim that standards and norms need to be reduced. We are opposed by the Social Democrats. However, the school in nature is exactly the same substantive issue where the different tensions in this society appear in the most pronounced form. Primary school is a compulsory school in Slovenia. We declare it free. However, the fact that the country in the budget provides only income for teachers, while the other part must be paid by parents or can be covered by various donations or other means of obtaining funds. A wide range of social problems can then be spread here, as the school is made available so that the duration, organisation and implementation of the school can be adapted in nature and also have this mechanism to take account of the social situation of children. But the fact is that we cannot put school in nature as part of the program into the same kind of very important issue of free lunch, for example. But school in nature can be part of a mandatory program or part of an extended program. And my question points to this: How does the ministry intend to deal with this issue in the future, given that there are also predictions that education will be affected by standards and standards? School in nature is part of norms and standards. I am particularly interested in this because teachers have a great responsibility to carry out a school in nature because it is healthcare and all other forms of child protection. However, I hope that no one will doubt the substantive usefulness of this programme. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u111	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Member, thank you very much for this question. I think that we all, at least in this National Assembly, hope that there is no one, united in the fact that the school is in nature as an organised form of education and educational work is something that is essential and which brings extraordinary benefits. It is not only the issue of the substantive benefits that you have already mentioned and are undoubtedly, of course, also the issue of integration, socialisation, not least the attitude towards nature, which our students, of course, receive. It is a school that usually lasts outside the school premises for three days or more. Of course, for those who do not attend schools in nature, the school organizes some comparable activities at that time. The Ministry is working hard and will continue to work to provide each student with money for at least one participation in a school in nature at the time of nine years of schooling. For those children, and this is the component that you highlighted about the social component, and for those children who are from socially weaker families, and besides this regular subsidy that all children receive, we provide an additional subsidy. However, for children with special needs in primary schools with adapted programmes or institutions, two participations in the school in nature are subsidised and co-financed. If I may be very specific, for primary schools this means €67.60 per fifth-class student, basic schools with a tailor-made programme of €87.80 per fifth- and sixth-grade student, and 87.80 per student for one third of pupils who are involved in education and education. In the case of institutions implementing the primary school programme, the same shall apply. So our commitment is, and at the same time, the goal that everyone goes to school in nature at least once during the nine-year compulsory education period and that we, as a state and as a ministry, are able to co-finance and subsidise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you for this part of the answer, Mr. Secretary-General. I can't imagine having a school in nature without my parents' consent. They are the ones who agree whether or not the child will attend the school in nature. You mentioned the socialization moment of the school in nature. Thus, it is not excluded that parents who are financially able to pay a school in nature do not send their child to school in nature for any other reason. That is why I find it very interesting that the 2011 White Paper published a survey that showed that most of the principals questioned, almost 73%, almost 60% of the teachers questioned, took me on average after three years, and almost 59% of the parents see the school in nature as part of the mandatory programme. Of course, they stress that the school must be free of charge in nature. This is the only way to expect a lot of involvement. I think that this possibility, which is now in place, that that time for children who are not in school in nature, some parallel activity is being organised, just an emergency exit. And I want to know: Is there any time dynamic about how these things will take place in the primary school law and in the law on the organization and financing of education and education, which are two basic laws that allow this to happen, in the future, that schools in nature will receive as many children as possible? Thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u115	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We are aware of this and I think that that really authoritarian study in the White Paper shows exactly what you said, on average about 60% of the principals, parents and so on, that the school would be a mandatory program in nature. The problem here is exactly what you highlighted, namely that unfortunately it is not completely free. Since it is not completely free, it is difficult to command someone to go to school in nature. We're trying to promote, but one is promotion, and the other is funding. We hope that in the future we will also have financial resources in the budget so that in fact everyone, regardless of social status and hope or always with the consent of parents, can be able to be at least once in a school in nature. In this respect, we connect with the centres of school and school activities, because this seems to us to be a way, not only socialisation, but also a healthy lifestyle, a relationship to nature and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Romana Tomc will ask the Minister of Economic Development and Technology a question. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I have a question regarding the implementation of legislation defining the payment of salaries to the Presidents of the Administrations, the Supervisory Boards of the companies in which the State or the local community is a direct or direct majority owner. Every so long, data is leaking to the public in the context of today's economic situation, when a lot of people are unemployed when many employees receive minimum wages, this data is in some ways shocking. It is high gross wages, not only for high gross wages, but also for high rewards and, above all, for high retirement benefits. If we remember, a law was passed years ago to limit the payment of these extraordinary awards in these companies, which I am mentioning. He was known as the so-called Lawmaker's Law. Under this law, a regulation has also been adopted which sets out the exact criteria and criteria for how, under what conditions, the highest managers can be paid. The Ministry responsible for the economy is the Ministry responsible for monitoring what is happening in this area and whether this legislation, which has been adopted, is essentially respected and taken into account in the day-to-day operations. I therefore ask you in this regard: How did you, as a competent ministry, perform this supervision or how you carry out it, since we know that administrations change monthly and that overseers are obliged under the law to report each contract to the Ministry? How do you monitor this at the Ministry? And for some more information, please: How many contracts were submitted to the Ministry this year, what were actually the salaries paid? I don't expect names, but the amount of these receipts. Have you discovered any irregularities in this control? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u119	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you so much for asking. I think the question makes a lot of sense. In conclusion, I will also make my point, a flaw that I myself have found in this law. First, answer your questions. In fact, over the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and the self-governance local communities, I will continue to say that I will not continue to read this law, this law is a matter of law, in accordance with Article 7, the actual Ministry of Economy controls contracts to be forwarded by the supervisory authorities in these public companies to the Ministry and the Ministry must review them if this is in accordance with the law. Annexes are also being sent in. In reviewing these contracts, the Ministry shall, in particular, determine the consistency of these benefits with those provisions which are in law. However, the provisions laid down by law are in particular gross wages, basic payments, acceptable remuneration, that is to say, business performance – a maximum of 30 % in relation to the basic payment in a year and cancellation. The law also allows for six times that basic salary. Where the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, when reviewing these contracts, finds certain uncertainties or inconsistencies in this provision, the supervisory authority shall immediately draw attention to this and shall request it to supplement and provide appropriate clarifications. If irregularities are found, the case shall be waived to the criminal authority for assessment or there are conditions for the establishment of an offence procedure under an official obligation. The infringement authority shall then, in the event of non-compliance of contractual arrangements with the rules of this Act, put in place a procedure for an offence under an official obligation against the responsible person. In the current period of implementation of this Act, the criminal authority has instituted approximately 24 proceedings against members of the supervisory authority because the directors' contracts were not in line with the provisions of this Act. Of these, 34 decisions were issued on the offence, a fine or a reminder was issued. Some criminal proceedings are still ongoing and in some cases it has been found that there was no offence. This year, some seventy contracts were forwarded to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and some more than thirty annexes to these contracts. The total number of contracts submitted during the period of the control of the law was more than eight hundred contracts and more than five hundred annexes to these contracts. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology of this Treaty, which was sent this year, is still reviewing and so far no major inconsistencies have been identified. As you know, companies, especially those that consolidate the balance sheet, have eight months to send all the data to Apes and then it can be compared. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of this Law, exercise control over the implementation of this Act and shall, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of this Act, establish the conformity of contractual provisions with the rules of law. In the event of irregularities identified under an official obligation, the infringement authority shall bring proceedings against the responsible person. It follows from the above that the Ministry, under the law in question, is solely competent to assess the conformity of the contractual provisions with the law and to exercise control over those provisions of the law whose breach constitutes an offence, since in such cases it is only on the basis of criminal provisions that it is competent to act. Then there is what I have predicted before that we actually only recognize the consistency of contracts and annexes with the law, but we do not see how much these benefits have been paid because we do not have access to the benefits paid. However, how much the remuneration has been paid and is responsible and can only be determined by the authority issuing the contract and the annex, which is the competent supervisory board in the company. And there's probably this flaw, this gap, which would have to be solved in a future way so that the ministry on the spot can determine the payout and what's written in the contract itself, which has to be in line with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u121	Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your answer. I also asked you about the heights which are certainly also reflected in the employment contract and you did not provide me with this answer. So I'm asking you if you could supplement that. However, I would like to recall that, despite the fact that the deadline for the transmission of data to Ipes is 8 months, as you correctly point out, the deadline for the transmission of data by the Supervisory Board to the Ministry responsible for the economy is limited. That's what the law says right now. And you don't have to wait eight months. Here, the Ministry must have up-to-date data and an up-date review, and there is no reason for us to continue to look at things that originate in January in the middle of the year. However, it is quite correct, as you have pointed out by the Minister, of course I also support you in your intention that, as I may have understood from your reply, you will, I hope, propose a change to the legislation in this part where you have identified shortcomings so that you can have better information further. However, I would ask you just a few questions here, depending on your answer, which many procedures have been introduced, the supervisors will obviously or are already answering in cash with the fine provided for in the law, which is, of course, correct, so this law has been written and the responsibility has been given. And I want to know: In addition to responding financially, will the ministry or the competent authority also invite them to resign?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u123	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you. In line with the question of the level of contracts, I must say that Article 7 of the Act states under the second point, "the supervisory authority must communicate the contract with the director as soon as it is concluded to the Ministry, and this must protect it as a business secret". So the data, I can't give you the numbers. However, it is certainly good for you to propose that this law should be amended and that we all want what we want, if actually payments are in accordance with the law, but not like now that we can only identify the papers but not the actual payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will raise a question of the matter before the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitcanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we continue to point out inefficiencies in justice and the failure to accept responsibility by the highest representatives when unheard mistakes occur, as in the case of Hilda Tobut, in the case of the Balkan warrior, for example, in the case of the recent release of a Russian citizen. We draw attention to prosecutorial and judicial errors within procedures for which no one is usually responsible, even though these errors have destroyed the lives of individuals and their families. Consider, for example, the case of Fojkar. We also point out that politics and justice are intertwined, which is also reflected in political processes. We point to trials in unreasonablely long-term terms. The way individuals protect each other in court. We note that this has resulted in eclectic manifestations of non-compliance with fundamental legal principles and all human rights violations. We also keep in mind in the Slovenian Democratic Party the political leaders at the highest levels of justice. Such appointments, I have already said this many times, pose a problem for the independence of the judiciary, and above all for a fair and fair trial which should be a basic guide in justice, and with us this one has a right to the truth, and even before the facts, the advantage of a political conviction, even without evidence, as was the case with Patria. With convictions without evidence, especially when there is a lack of circumstantiality, as lawyer Cheferin has said, we will most likely not be able to restore people's confidence in the judiciary. Such judgments also cast doubt on the correctness of the procedure and on political impartiality and independence, and therefore, of course, we also rightly cause people's violent reactions and share them again. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Does it seem to you that we live in a state of law, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Is this at the same time a just country that has the same criteria for everyone? You have spoken many times about the urgently needed reform of the judicial system. I want to know: Will you be able to ensure by reforming justice that the judiciary is finally and effectively responsible for its mistakes, that it will work transparently in the light of justice and not in the light of political decisions, as we have recently witnessed in the case of Patria? They're in your hands, Your Honor, so are the scissors and the canvas. So you have the power to finally put things in your place and help Slovenia become a legal and just country where human rights are respected under the rule of law. I thank you already in advance for your appreciated response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u127	Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I agree that I have quite large scissors and quite a few canvasses in my hands, but I must point out, as I have already done several times in this House, and also that there are more scissors and more canvasses in the hands of the judiciary alone and the rest of the justice system. I would like to point out that whatever I propose – and I have already proposed a number of things, a few things have already been adopted, and even more so I will propose amendments, even though I will propose this, and I am sure that these changes will still be adopted by law, the main scissors and the main canvas will still be in the hands of the judiciary itself and the other parts of the judicial system. We can't forget that. Much is expected of the Minister responsible for justice. Even when it comes to this last part of your question, in which you have made a claim or the thesis that I now have the opportunity to make a difference, and in this regard the scissors and the canvas in my hands. The real thing is, I'm just sorry that some of my predecessors over the past 20 years haven't made more use of it than they could and should have. That is why I would like to point out that, as I have already answered your colleague Mr Chernač's question in reply, I myself will do everything within my competence to ensure that the judiciary, the state prosecutor's office and the rest of the justice system are quickly transformed, but will be more efficient in making them aware of the responsibilities they have before our citizens and citizens. But again, most of this work will have to be done alone. We can only hope together that they, like you, Members and Members of this Parliament, and like us in the government, this one, I must say that the same has happened in the previous one, and we ourselves are well aware of it. As it is said, this government itself is well aware of the importance of having effective and quality justice for the functioning of society as a whole, especially the economy. This is especially true because of the situation in which Slovenia is, of course, and does not mean that the other aspects are any less important. When it comes to the effective functioning of the justice system in relation to individuals and individuals, citizens and citizens, i.e. those who are not businesses, this is of course equally important. The time in which we are, and it requires us to pay particular attention to giving particular energy greater efficiency and greater quality to the functioning of the justice system in relation to the economy, in relation to businesses. It is very important to me that both the efficiency at which I think of speed or the duration of judicial proceedings, as well as the quality, be visibly improved in a short time. So I repeat, we do not have years and decades available, and we must quickly achieve these changes. But we will reach them only by participating in all three branches of government. I know from my own experience, including political, past year's, or other life's, that without cooperation, without agreement, there are no or can only be short breaths. If I focus on the key or the core of your question, honourable Member, how does the rule of law work in Slovenia, i.e. a principle which is one of the fundamental constitutional principles, I could say that it is not just one of the fundamental constitutional principles, but a question which is inseparably linked to the country itself, to the functioning of the country itself. I think that modern countries are rule of law. There is no modern country that is not a rule of law. The concept of law and state are inseparably linked, so we need to ask ourselves what this concept of the rule of law means. It is necessary to know that the concept of the rule of law means, firstly, that all actions, all actions, whatever authority, any legislative, enforcement or judicial authority, does, must be regulated, and also, with legal standards, with legal rules. In this respect, I think that we can all agree, both honourable Member and other Members and Members of Parliament, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u129	Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I thank you for some clarifications, although I have not received the exact answers to the questions raised. Mr. Minister, in the light of recent rebuttal court cases, which have shown all incompetence, including power, and the inefficiency of our judicial branch of power, which have shown, among other things, the arrogant response of the highest representatives of this branch of government, and, on the other hand, the bitter public response to these cases, but also the professional comment of eminent lawyers, such as Mr. Jaklič, who comes from Harvard, but Mr. Cheferin, I am interested in: Do you really think our justice system works independently, transparently and on the basis of solid evidence? Or do you feel pressured by public opinion and by political actors, as was the case with Patricia? Last but not least, I think that something similar has already been raised by my colleague Cernač as the first to ask the question. I want to know: When do you intend to request the resignation of both the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court, in view of all the mistakes made in the judiciary and the prosecution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u131	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you. I will also try to answer most of these questions that you, honourable Member, have addressed to me in this second part, to answer, but first I would like to finish where I ended up. We talked about what the rule of law means, and I said that the rule of law means that the functioning of the government, the state authorities, that is, the three branches of state authority are governed by the rule of law, and we have it in Slovenia. At the same time, the idea of the rule of law has always meant, and also today, that these three branches of state authority, legislative, executive, administrative and judicial, are overseeing, among other things, that in a system in which we lay down rules of conduct, rules of conduct, powers of individual branches of government, there is also something that is called "checks and balances" in English. It is said that the legislative branch, Parliament, for example, controls the judiciary. That the executive branch controls the judicial branch, that the judicial branch controls the enforcement branch. So there must be a system where one branch can control the other. In this respect, I think we still have a lot to do in Slovenia, especially when it comes to the situation between the executive branch, namely the government, and the judiciary. I have repeatedly talked about this, even in this House, that when it comes to government control, executive branch or executive-administrative branch in relation to the judiciary, that there is too little here, even if we compare ourselves with other countries more developed than us, more developed not only in the economic sense, but also in terms of legal and other cultures, including democratic culture, we will find that, while this postulate is the independence of the judiciary to which I will return in a short time, one of the key postulates of every modern democracy, that does not mean that it would not have an executive-administrative power when it comes to the control of the judiciary, but only in certain respects, i.e. in terms of efficiency, speed and so on, but not when it comes to substantive control. It can't be that. This is precisely the idea of the independence of the judiciary that when it comes to decisions on specific matters, the judiciary cannot and must not control any of the other branches of authority. This control of the correctness of substantive decision-making in specific matters is aimed at an instalatory system, a system of remedies and so on. This is completely comparable to any other European country in Slovenia. In view of the legal order of the operation of all three branches of the Authority, in particular the enforcement court and their relationship, we can find that the system is to a large extent the same as in any Western State, so that it needs to be improved, in particular with regard to the control of the executive branch over the judicial branch, i.e. in terms of efficiency, the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Given that I have not received an answer from the Minister to the key question I have raised on several occasions, my colleague Cernač also said that when the Minister would request the resignation of both the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court, I propose that we hold a broader debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mrs Eva Irgle, will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 18 June 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Katarina Hotchevar to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Urosh Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! Our economy is in recession. We have a lot of companies that are over-indebted and on the verge of insolvency. They have too many companies that need state aid. I am aware of your position that you are not inclined to do so. And here I share your opinion that in the past these forms of assistance have been too ineffective, even ineligible. That's why I want to know: Why do you not use more quickly, boldly, or decisively the systemic solution provided for in the law on measures for the stability of the banking system? Of course, I am talking about the Claims Management Society. I want to know: What is the obstacle that we do not transfer the claims of banks in companies in difficulty to a so-called bad bank? I want to know: When will this be done or when, if so, how will you guarantee or how will the management of these companies be monitored that will end up at the so-called bad bank? I am simply interested in: Is there really a bad bank on paper like we read in some newspapers these days? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u137	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much, honourable Member Katarina Hotchevar. I don't think a bad bank is just on paper. There's more. If we look at our rational reform programme, this is one of the main instruments that we intend to use and we are actually already preparing and we are very far away in these preparations, which are designed to clean bank balance sheets, which will allow banks to access funding sources, and which, in addition to having poor claims in its balance sheet, will then transform them either into real estate or equity, depending on what insurance will get in addition. Our plans are to transfer the first package of these claims to a bad bank from the banking system by the end of June, perhaps not the most tangible amount, but at least so much that we show that this process is running, and then we expect to make a comprehensive transfer of all claims to a bad bank in the summer until the end of September, where they will then be centrally managed, and we will try to get as much assets as possible that we have engaged in this phase, even back.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u139	Mrs. Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you for that part of the answer. I would like to know if you can further explain: Will the list of companies whose claims will be transferred to a bad bank be made public? It is said that Banka Slovenije is already working, and I am interested in tax money if it is known which companies are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u141	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for this sub-question. The lists shall be prepared for each bank that brings claims separately. On the question of whether this is going to be public or not, I don't know now, on the first ball I'd say probably not, but it's going to be that way. I'm gonna get this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question raised by the Magi. Mr Andrej Vizjak to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u143	Dear Minister, hello! Block 6, Thermal Power Plants of Šostanj is the far largest investment that is taking place in Slovenia and is the far largest investment in energy in the last decade or more. If we monitor this investment from 2006 until now, we have three milestones. In 2006, it was valued at EUR 600 to 650 million. At the time, electricity prices were around 90 euros per megawatt hour and consumption was about 20% higher and the region's electricity consumption forecasts were only going up. This is said to be the year 2006 and actually everything went up by 2008. In 2009, there was a shock, with the crisis, electricity prices halved in the main markets, there were about €40 to €50 per megawatt hour, as I said, consumption was lower and there was already more than a billion euros in investment. Now, in 2013, it's even worse, we already have an investment of €440 million, and electricity prices are around €38, these are the lamest, inpreservative exchanges. What's going on? This huge investment, which also involves the State with the guarantee contract, is proving increasingly economically unjustifiable. If we look at the new investment programme, the planned electricity prices under which this investment would yield a return from this investment programme, it should be €63.5 per megahour in 2015 and €75 per megahour in 2016. Forecasts for electricity prices over three years indicate that the price will not rise above €40 per megawatt hour. This, of course, puts this investment in a completely different light. This is obviously what the investment is going to be for, isn't it? I'm asking you: How do you view the economic viability of this project? Each operating megawatt hour will cause a loss if, of course, these forecasts show up. The loss will not only result in the holding of the Slovenian power plant, but also in all energy and consequently in difficulties for Slovenia, as owners of energy and also donors of this guarantee. I'm asking you: How do you assess the economic viability of this project today that you, who are not burdened with this investment, had nothing to do with it throughout history? What measures will you manage this investment in the future, even as a government, as the government plays an important role under the guarantee contract? Do you support writing a crisis scenario with projected electricity prices of around €40 for the next decade in the context of the revised investment programme 6?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u144	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u145	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament welcome. Mr Vizjak, I thank you for a nice introduction to my question, for a nice summary of the entire history of the project itself. Everything you've said is true. All the facts are exactly as you state them. The fact is that this project began long before my history in Slovenian politics and I am kind of glad that I am not burdened with the past. For me, as district minister, the facts are crucial and important at this point on the day the information came on the day that we are at risk of further reflection of the project. What is crucial is that at some point the government has taken over part of its responsibility and thus the country has issued guarantees, which were conditional on the number 1.3. And that's what's important to me and what's a fact to me. What we committed to on the Extraordinary Committee on Finance and Infrastructure, this is what we are following. We have committed ourselves to asking for a detailed report and for the facts why we are at risk of doing so. This report is with us at the Ministry, this report will be presented to the government and on the basis of facts, i.e. historical events, why we are at risk of this reflection, we will adopt conclusions and new guidelines on how to proceed with this project. The fact is that NIP 5 was the one built in the circumstances at the time of the investment plan. The fact is that circumstances have changed significantly during this period. It is true that electricity prices and forecasts that are completely different from those taken into account in the NIP 5 and therefore it is certainly important that we produce the NIP 6 to see what is happening with the investment itself on the facts that are on the market today. The new investment plan will also show where it makes sense or where it leads. What is a fact is that in fact we have all in some way taken up certain obligations for 1.3. I do not think anyone in this Slovenia wants, given that we already have almost a billion euros, that we have a billion-euro monument in Scotland. But it is the fact that NIP 6 is the one who will show what numbers really show. As far as specific answers and details are concerned. We will also have these next week, so we will communicate exactly what the government is like and what direction we will take, as far as the investment in Scotland is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u146	Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u147	Dear Minister, it's true. Block 6 and investment is not only a problem due to the increasing investment value that has apparently been unrealisticly planned already under NIP 5, which is also evidenced by the correspondence that we receive on e-mails. If, on the date of signature of the guarantee contract, an annex had already been signed, which significantly undermined this investment, the TEŠ management did not adhere to the guarantee contract, since it should have notified and notified the government without delay and did not do so. This is just one detail, which is important, and a signal of how credible partners and interlocutors we have on the side when they play with hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money. I am concerned about a significantly more drastic forecast or different electricity prices in the future than the NIP 5 forecast, the revised investment programme. The new investment programme already foresees that electricity prices will be around €100 per megawatt-hour there around 2020, which is totally unrealistic at today's 38 euros per megawatt-hour. This is said by a number of experts who know these forecasts and developments in the energy field of the wider region. What will happen, Prime Minister, if we continue to do so, to have a foreign investment that will throw up a loss from month to month? Who's gonna cover this loss? Tax collectors? Consumers? A serious question arises as to whether it makes sense to hide your eyes. That's why I want to know: Do you support the view that, in the context of the revised investment programme, these drastic, relatively low electricity prices, as many see today? This shock scenario — and then what? I think that also because you are really unburdened with this investment, it would be right for you to demand this from the material preparers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u148	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u149	Your Honor, Mr. Visac. I'm asking myself all those questions that you asked yourself. Yes, I absolutely agree. NIP 6 must be made on real facts. It must be made in real circumstances. I don't want to stand up to the manufacturers of NIP 5. At the time, I believe that these circumstances and prices on the market were such that they made a real investment plan, but the fact is that the market situation has changed completely during this period. If we want some real and real guidance, if we want to have the right facts on the table, then in NIP 6 we need to take into account the facts on the market today. This is, of course, to be taken into account in the production of NIP 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u150	Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u151	Actually, I'm kind of almost disappointed. I must say that if the Minister asks himself the same questions as I do for an investment worth €440 million, then that is the problem. I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President-designate, we would be able to hold a debate in the coming meeting, which is in July, then we will know a lot of things, which is unknown today, that we will also be able to prepare ourselves for different scenarios. Dear Minister, I am afraid that one such inherited investment in an over-indebted holding company can sink even Slovenian energy. The vast majority of Slovenian energy is Holding the Slovenian Power Plant. Holding the Slovenian power plant is an over-indebted company. In the next three years, it is estimated that the holding will have an approximately negative cash flow of EUR 500 million. Where to take this money, with the promise of this inherited investment, is a big question. He'll probably be interested later this year, not even the finance minister. For this year, loans are bridging due to this issue regarding the EIB loan guarantee. The liquidity problems of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding are not yet expected this year, but I am afraid that this problem will escalate in the coming years. Maybe it's time for something else, but I don't think it is. I think we should also consider scenarios on how to proceed. Are we looking for strategic partners for this investment, I'm talking about investing in Block 6 or the Termoelectrica Šostanj in general? How do we service this hole that threatens us? Therefore, once again, this debate, if voted tomorrow, will take place at a time when we will have a number more than we have today, so I could also offer some conclusions. I think, given your unburden with this project, we have very similar goals here. A similar goal is to save the abyss of the healthy part of Slovenian energy that can sink anything if a negative scenario occurs. I do not want to do this, so I suggest that we discuss this in a timely manner, take the appropriate decisions, because by the investor – and I have known them for almost a decade – all the time before the real assessments and some economically justified decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u152	About your proposal, mag. Andrej Vizjak, the National Assembly will decide on Tuesday, 18 June 2013, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question that will be posed to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. She's got a mag on Stan Stepišnik. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! Once again, I refer the question to Mr Stepišnik, in conjunction with the company Pekko. This is my second question within two months, because I have the feeling that the matter is not moving anywhere. We read in the newspapers that there will be a restructuring of the company, but I do not know if it will be a trial bunny, because I have just read that we have not yet had such a rescue in Slovenia. I hope this experiment works. I have some questions for Mr Stephnik. In Pek, approximately 370 workers are employed and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia has submitted an application to the Government for the approval of aid in the form of a guarantee for companies in liquidity difficulties. Your ministry is also leaning towards the rehabilitation of Pek in the direction of maintaining the healthy cores of the company. The new pardons in Pek will further worsen the image of the town of Tržič and put it in social distress and social bomb, which can explode at some end of Slovenia, where there were no such problems so far. Most of all, the Styrian end is very time-consuming. There are many cases in the company where both spouses are employed and some 170 workers could stay at home and the family would be out of income. The employees of the Pekko factory are particularly interested in: Will the State provide the necessary guarantee to Pekko, which would solve liquidity problems and allow further production to keep workers and workers employed? Who are you going to trust with the rehabilitation or restructuring of Pek? That seems a very important question to me. How will your ministry get involved in the rehabilitation? Will rehabilitation also take into account the opinions and findings of employees who have been overlooked so far? Who is responsible for the difficult financial situation? Will you, on behalf of the State, as owners of the undertaking against those responsible, initiate procedures on their liability? We all know that all the administrations of Pekko so far have zeroed. Are you planning any of the measures to promote employment in the municipality of Tržič in the case of Pek? But a strategy for economic development [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u154	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Jenka, you'll continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you so much for the questions about Peck. Peck and I have done a lot of work. I also personally visited Pekko, looked at their production, looked at their properties. Pekko has already received state aid under the law, so that state aid for Pekko is very limited at the moment. As you know, there was a meeting called the Supervisory Committee. This Supervisory Board had its first meeting, which was suspended. The management has prepared a development programme. We also discussed this development programme with the existing administration and the mayor. In doing so, we were all united in our view that a healthy core should be eliminated, moved to another facility, where the cost of heating, maintenance is much lower, because now about 45 000 euros have only heating and energy costs for the production that cannot bear this cost. When the Supervisory Board identifies itself for the development programme, may support this administration or appoint a new administration, then the State, as co-owner of the company, will see how it can help this new restructured company if the programme is such that it offers a five-year stable operation and can be supported by banks. If this development programme does not bring this in conclusion, then it follows the worst for this company. At the moment, the State does not have any legal framework to help it as an undertaking that needs to be assisted when it is in a restructuring or a poor financial situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u156	Here you go, mag. Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I have some more questions. I want to know: Does the economic development strategy even include the encouragement of the shoe industry in Slovenia? Are you planning another meeting with the workers to explain their restructuring plan, strategy? It seems to me that it will take some time again to have an empty run, as it has done so far, starting with the beginning of the sale of Pek, which failed, where he is responsible for the sale of very much time to even put the invitation out. I also want to know: Do you know anything about because rumors are, Mr. Mišič said that daily we receive requests or almost offers to buy Pek, that the interest is very large, is it true or is it again a floscule? Do you agree that the possible collapse of Pekko would not only mean a social bomb but also a loss of broad knowledge that has been upgraded by many generations in the shoe industry? We know that especially in Pek, this shoe industry was strong, not as strong as it was, but it was already going to the francs. What is your view of the collapse of companies with centuries and more tradition, which made Slovenia also recognizable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u158	Here you go, Minister Mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u159	I'm sorry for every company if they can't continue their business. But first of all, you know, it's mainly the owners' fault, the management's fault, and also the district where there's a local community. Last time we were in Pek, we were talking about if we could find at least one team in the municipality that took over Pekko, not to say that the mayor who was with him didn't have any idea that between the 12 or 15 thousand that Tržič has, they found a team to keep Pekko active. I think that, above all, the local community and the district must worry about continuing an industry, giving energy, synergy, strength and will to make it worthwhile. Expecting this country to get there and continue with some help or whatever the shoe industry is doing, that is possible, but it is extremely difficult, extremely difficult. In order to say, all those structures that live in that place must first show enough will, energy to be invested in such an industry. Clearly, however, industry must be competitive. Without competition, it makes no sense to revive any industry. However, if you do not invest in some activity for 10 or 20 years, now the average age of workers is 50 years, normally between 35 and 37 years and so on, it is practically without information and communication technology, without young people, and today it is very difficult to place a firm on the hard ground to have a permanent business. I certainly think that this Supervisory Board has authorised regions, and it has also been accepted that an audit must be carried out, as you asked before, on how such a situation could have occurred. After all, the main value is this real estate value owned by Pekko, this network of shops, over 100 shops across Yugoslavia. This is one comparative advantage that can give rise to a certain part of the company, part of the activity. These are certainly sampling, which is very exemplary in Pek, and development. But for the production itself, I think it is too expensive for the Slovenians to take advantage of this former Yugoslav space, which is already being done, and this can be linked to some networking. If they decide in Pek to develop, sample, then that's the way to go. We will see what the visual world and the new management will show with this new development programme, and as soon as it is done, we will re-engage. Otherwise, as far as sales are concerned, I can't give you any information until it's for me at least. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u161	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! The government gave us the first privatisation package of 15 companies on the table. There was a lot of dust and a lot of questions about this package. We all know that the Slovenian State Holding Act has been in force for more than half a year and that the Government should also propose members of the Supervisory Council one month after the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: When does the Government intend to propose to the National Assembly candidates for members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u162	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. The Government may propose to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding to elect the National Assembly after the transformation of the Slovenian Compensation Society into the Slovenian State Holding; and this transformation takes place at the same time as the classification is accepted. In view of the fact that the classification has not yet been accepted, the Court has not yet transformed itself into a Slovenian State holding company, which is why these appointments are not even possible. I would like to point out that there are currently amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act in preparation, so that these things may also be written in a slightly different way, but it is still possible to talk about this too soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u164	Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you for that answer, Minister of Finance. In view of all this issue, which has been highlighted, it would probably be more reasonable for the Government to submit this classification to the National Assembly and that in fact these procedures for the implementation and start-up of the Slovenian State holding company will begin, in particular because the European Commission has clearly given some guidance to the Government that privatisation must begin to take a serious approach here. Of course, the European Commission also expects that the assets of the Republic will be transferred to the holding company itself. With regard to the non-acceptance of classifications and consequently the fact that the Government has not yet been able to propose supervisors of the Slovenian state holding company, a number of additional issues and problems are likely to be raised. I personally believe that the National Assembly is certainly not a place to agree on individual sales of state property. I am sure that the National Assembly will give this agreement that Slovenia will not receive some serious investors for this reason. On the other hand, we will probably all Members and Members of Parliament in some conflict of interest, given the fact that the shares of individual companies that we will be giving consent or disagreement here are being forwarded. This means that the shareholders we are Members will have an advantage over the other shareholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u166	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u167	Perhaps I would just add to the fact that we talked to the European Commission and also somehow committed ourselves to further complementing the Slovenian National Holding Act, which regulates corporate governance in Slovenia, just before the summer, and that we will also further explain the strategy that complements the classification and prepare it by the end of the third quarter. These are the things we are now working on, and we are also trying to close them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u168	Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u169	In view of the current topic of privatisation, as well as the problems surrounding the start of the Slovenian State Holding, and thus the subsequent appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a main debate be held at one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u170	About your proposal, mag. Marko Pogačnik, the National Assembly will decide on Tuesday, 18 June 2013, in the framework of the vote. We turn to the next question put by Mr Janez Ribič to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities by Dr Andreja Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, when adopting social, family and other laws, we always draw attention to the critical demographic situation. The population in Europe and also in Slovenia is ageing. The consequences and impact of this fact on the income and expenditure situation in social registers have been known for a long time. Even more important is the fact that this increases the needs of the population for social services. According to European data and criteria, it is estimated that 3 to 5% of the population over the age of 65 needs long-term care. This means about 60,000 people in Slovenia who would probably be entitled to long-term care. This means three to four times more needs than the current capacity in social institutions, where about 8 thousand people work. Today’s modern family is growing smaller. In doing so, all employees are either looking for work or schooling or facing a lack of resources, and the role of mutual assistance in the family is becoming increasingly lost. This increases the need for new measures and for a more effective approach to addressing the problems of the elderly in our society. Many live alone, get sick, can no longer care for themselves. The elderly are even more vulnerable in the crisis. We are also faced with the problem that we do not have systemicly regulated long-term care and that we do not have equal access to such assistance. Home care is too underdeveloped. This should be a priority form of long-term care, since it is the most humane and at the same time cheaper and more efficient than institutional accommodation. At present, long-term care is regulated by a number of rules that are not harmonised between themselves. Intransparency is also the financing of the care of the elderly, which currently represents mainly a health component of long-term care. Long-term care, however, means a lot more measures and covers a lot of areas, and in particular there is a need to harmonise rules more effectively. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: How do you see a solution to the problem of long - term care for the elderly? When will we finally receive a proposal for a system law at your ministry for consideration at the National Assembly? What are the main solutions based on the analysis and consideration of the real needs of people will you propose in law? Thank you in advance for your oral response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Ribič, as you wish, the Minister will reply to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Robert Hrovat will raise the question of the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Clearly, we are coming to the conclusion of the issue of so-called deleted. It is right to re-establish the status of those who have been unable to regulate this status, and it seems absurd to me that, after the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg last year's judgment, we will be adopting a law that will throw everything into the same basket; that is, from those who have not actually been able to regulate the status to those who did not want to arrange it and who later felt an opportunity for their own benefit. On the government's website, I read that he's in session 4. 4. The Government has adopted a complement to the action plan for the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case and the second against Slovenia, which was already adopted at the time, i.e. 18. 1. 2013 Here I ask for an explanation: What additions are made by content and also by form, what do things look like? You state that the legal framework for system-wide compensation will be the legislative act, i.e. the act on compensation for damage to persons who have been erased: How will the status of the beneficiary be defined? Will those who did not want to settle their status then also be among the beneficiaries? What will be the criteria for flat-rate compensation? How will it be covered by compensation for property and property damage? What majority is envisaged for the adoption of this law in the National Assembly? I also want to know: Does the law provide for individual treatment of each case, and what will this ultimately mean for the state budget? I also want to know: How are the negotiations on the friendly settlement procedure with the representatives of the six plaintiffs in the judgement of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case and others against Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u174	Mr. Secretary, Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you so much for asking. This is an extremely sensitive issue where we need to be careful that, on the one hand, we realize, implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, correct the error that has obviously been made by the State, according to the case-law of our Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights in 1992, so that, on the other hand, we do not pay compensation to those who are not entitled to this compensation. About two weeks ago, I was in Strasbourg, where I explained on the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe what Slovenia was trying to get feedback on this area of work, whether the solutions we are planning to "come through" are, if I may say so, to the European Court of Justice. If our solutions are not good, then what happened to us in the case of Kurić and others would happen to us, so that in each case we will be specifically condemned by the European Court of Human Rights and pay very high damages. That is why these matters really needed to be dealt with very rationally, very professionally and with a great deal of sensitivity. The solutions we are currently considering include those who have regulated the status of permanent residence or citizenship in Slovenia on any legal basis that has been in force so far; either under the Aliens Act, or under the Citizenship Act, or under the 1999 Status Regulation Act, the so-called Status Law, which was amended later in 2010. Therefore, we do not foresee compensation for those who did not try to arrange it, showed no interest, showed no will, left the country and did not try to regulate their status or residence permits. The second question is, of course, the question of the amount of compensation, the amount of the flat rate. You see, the first draft of the law predicted 30 euros per full month of deletion depending on the length of this deletion. Now we will probably correct the law a little bit, a little bit more, but with some substantial financial consequences, at least as far as I and the Ministry of the Interior are concerned, we will not go. But it's definitely a topic we have to get off the table once and for all. I'm sorry we won't do this in time. I don't want to point a finger at anyone, but we're late. We should have resolved the matter by 26 June this year, so that we have already passed the compensation scheme law, because after 26 June we are threatened that the European Court of Human Rights can also take into consideration all the other cases that are currently there. The European Court of Justice dealt with the Kurić case and others, six complainants, awarded them compensation for intangible damage while saying that Slovenia must regulate the compensation scheme for all deleted persons. It left all the other cases on hold. If we do not manage this, then all other matters will be taken into consideration and will be awarded approximately as high compensation as they were in the case of Kurić, where each complainant was awarded 20 000 euros just for immaterial damage. In Strasbourg, I took a thorough look, I really took the time to do so, I also spoke with the former President of the European Court of Human Rights, and I also looked at the case law. In some cases or in particular in one case, this was the Polish case Bolinowski, the European Court of Human Rights was considered to be a sufficient national compensation scheme where the State of Poland provided for compensation for approximately 20% of the amount of compensation awarded in a similar case by the European Court of Human Rights. So there is no need for each of the deleted according to our internal compensation scheme to give me 20 thousand for immaterial damage and then an additional something for material damage, but we will establish some reasonable compensation scheme, where, of course, we will also take into account the state's public finances and the economic situation in the country. In all areas, we are cutting because we have to save, including in public sector wages, we have already intervened in pensioners' rights, we have intervened in social transfers and also deleted, of course, they will have to understand the situation in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, my first question was about an action plan that has changed. I want to know: At what points has he changed, and in what form? It also seems important to me to say that when I led an investigative committee and dealt primarily with how many were deleted, how many court decisions such and different were issued, I am sure that the human rights of every individual must be respected. However, from the chronology of the number of so-called deleted persons, I can personally conclude that the number of exaggerations in the early years, that is, in the 1990s and beyond, was one of the reasons for excessive internationalisation and the extension of the problem resolution. Part of the policy has used this exaggeration to depreciate the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the root causes that have led to the long-standing resolution of the status of so-called deleted persons are, of course, complex, as you yourself have already said. One of the reasons that generated the complications is also the issue of the credibility of the records which were transferred from the register of permanent residents to the register of foreigners at the Ministry of the Interior. Remember General JNA, who roared about the number 30 thousand, former President of the Republic of Slovenia Milan Kučan spoke of the number 4 thousand, Minister Kresalova reached 25 thousand 671 before her Minister Bohinc at 18 thousand 305. So, the confusion is perfect and you'll have to be very careful when you're preparing the law to end up as it should be. I suggest that you also read a separate opinion of our committee's final report before drafting the law to see how things are within the Ministry. Now, about the compensation: It seems to you that the compensation would be similar to that of the victims of the war. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u178	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you. First, a concrete response to the Action Plan; the Action Plan has only changed so much that we have made it concrete. So that we have clearly stated in it that the solution to this problem, namely the enforcement of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, is essentially a law. We have to adopt a compensation scheme law. We have written this very directly, directly, clearly in the action plan and have also asked the European Court of Justice to postpone, for a one-year extension of the deadline for execution, but unfortunately we have not been extended this deadline. So now we really have to hurry so that we don't all feel the consequences in our pockets, in our taxpayer's pockets. About the number. The number of deleted MNZ records is now known, 25 000 600 and several of them. Above all, however, it is quite clear how many are those who have settled their status. These are 10 thousand and some of them have been deleted, either after the original Aliens Act or under the 1999 statute, or under the Citizenship Act. Only by this will we recognise the right to compensation under the law we have drawn up at the Ministry. I agree with you, I have to agree with you that the cases are very different; from the truly very traumatic cases of people who have suffered as a result of the disappearance, let's say that they were not given the opportunity to enter the country when they left for a short time and when they returned, the Slovenian authorities did not let them into the country, some were also expelled and some were, for example, separated from their children. In this group, there are also very difficult traumatic, tragic cases. But there must be a lot of people like you said yourself who would like to get on that train when it was breathing after compensation. That way, we'll have to be really, really careful. We've got the law ready. He'll be in coalition coordination in no time. First of all, I will give priority to coalition parties, but I promise you that I will also come to present this law in the SDS, NSI and SLS, to tell you what the solutions are, and also to hear what your opinion is.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the question to the two ministers, namely the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration and the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! My parliamentary question will be raised in the wake of the unannounced obstruction of three government parties, but still. A similar topic was opened today. Indeed, in Slovenia we continue to witness the transmission and dispersion of public funds, state resources, budgetary resources, when certain individuals in the general public administration sector, in financial institutions, insurance institutions and state-owned companies pay abnormally high personal incomes in a variety of ways. In addition, we are faced with many more under my fictitious consulting contracts, semi-fiction author contracts and so on. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Do you intend to settle this matter? Slovenia is in an impossible situation, and some so-called managers imagine that divinities, that they have supernatural knowledge and that they would be without them, thus ensuring that institutions are in a worse situation. I am sure that some institutions would be in a much better condition if they were never there. At the same time, the supervisory councils and the saints of the institutions do not carry out what is the responsibility of overseers. They make it possible to sign contracts that are not based on anything, which I think are in deep contradiction with the applicable positive legislation. For this reason, I have called on the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy for the last time to stop the practice of paying prizes to institutions and directors, to the managers of institutions that have huge losses that mismanagement of state assets and yet pay off the impossible revenues. So once again, I ask you: How can it be that the President or the President of the Government is substantially less paid than some who belong to the government's interference and what will you do here? There's no more time to delay! To people who are not willing to respect this, tell them tomorrow that you do not need them, because I am sure that there is a whole bunch of capable people in each institution who can perform their jobs tomorrow, but they must sign a declaration that they are giving up this country's robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you for asking. I must say, I agree with you very much. We have a relatively well-managed salary system in the public sector, which is said for state authorities, public institutions, public agencies, public funds, here we have quite a lot of order and the only high-end salaries, so-called here, are paid out to doctors due to the strong level of duty, due to the lack of doctors and so on. That's in the Minister of Health's domain. I have repeatedly warned all the health ministers so far that something has to be done here, but I have always received the same answer, that it is not possible to resolve organisationally differently from all these incredibly high duty stations, so doctors have written in their law that they can carry out overtime beyond all the legal limits of the labour law and so on. It's so hard to comment. This is a question more for the Minister of Health, how are these salaries? Otherwise, in the public sector, as far as wages are concerned, order has been in place since the entry into force or the application of the new payment system. However, the second issue is that of state-owned companies. Public companies, companies in the majority direct or indirect state ownership, and here in fact it comes to what you said, and I must say that I myself had a lot of problems when I negotiated with the public sector unions because they were reading us, and this is justifiably shown that we are fighting for every euro in the public sector, negotiating for every euro regression, for example, lowering wages, literally reducing wages and other rights, and on the other hand we see that you are in state-owned enterprises, including loss-making companies, such as the New Ljubljana Bank, paying rich regresses and other rights, rewards to managers, departures and so on. This really isn't right. I fully agree with you, this will have to be settled by the Government and I think this is mainly in the domain of the present Minister for the Economy, if not in the interests of justice. Even if I don't know how high the savings will be, because of justice, and that the next time we can renegotiate on certain restrictions in the public sector, if necessary, I hope that we won't be able to look trade unions in the eye and say that we now have some order and some fair relations. Indeed, I fully agree with you, I have no explanation why the regression in the public sector would be lower than in one loser bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dr. Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u185	I have nothing to say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u186	I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. Are you giving up your answer? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u187	Since I had asked Dr. Chufer the previous time, and in part, after a very short answer, he agreed that something had to be done, I am surprised that today he has nothing to say about what he has done. Even the Home Secretary gave me everything right and said it wasn't right. However, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to action. I'm expecting action. I expect that this robbery will not continue in all segments of the country's assets, budgets and other revenues. In some institutions, they have done so sophisticated ways of robbing the country, in a semi-legal way, and I tell you that under Lachovnik's law, an economic minister could file a whole bunch of claims for nullity, but in other institutions the same. I think the same rules apply. Why is it that in banking, insurance, sometimes in education, and I don't know where, you don't implement these laws? Why are these laws not implemented on behalf of the State?Oh, my God! When will you start implementing them? It's not like the law is so freaky! And call off those people who break every month! It seems abnormal for us to put up a bank director – and next month, an advisory contract for 500 000 to advise the supervisors you have now replaced. Such things happen abnormally, in enormous losses, in bank robberies, they happen all the time. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And if you don't assure us that you will do something, then you can't be in future ministers. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like another comment? Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u189	This actually interferes with other domains, in other departments. Again, all I can say is that I agree with you in a lot of ways. I think the final answer to all your questions is the withdrawal of the country from all companies. I hope and hope that you will also support this first privatisation package, perhaps it is reasonable that this package 15 is not the most systematicly prepared. I can agree with that, but we have to start somewhere. And no government has ever had this courage, and there have been much better times for it, much better times for it to privatise some important state-owned enterprises. We missed this opportunity, we had time, from 2000 until the end of 2008, the market conditions were excellent for sale, if you want, Telekom, banks, Petrol, insurance companies, whatever you want, you could make excellent purchases, you could reduce your public debt, you could put something aside for critical times, and today in this crisis in which we were significantly better off. That was too late. All governments have so far screwed this up, and I hope that at least now we will come, although times are not the best time to sell, until we decide to privatise these first 15 because when these companies come into their own strategic owners of private capital, then these hacks will not be, because the responsibility of management will be something completely different than that of today. In the meantime, we have to survive somehow. One of the measures, however, which falls within my purview, is the amendment of the law that we already have and will see it soon, which is the amendment of the Public Information Access Act, which will extend the obligation to publish business information to state-owned enterprises as well, so that the Commission can also extend an extremely useful application called Supervision to state-owned enterprises. Well, let's see. In my opinion, you will be all traditional customers – perhaps not younger, newer – but all the traditional customers will then blush to where the traces of these transactions will lead.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Dr. Virant. Dr. Gorenak has a question for Justice Minister Dr. Senko Plicanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u191	There's no minister now. Do I still set it up? I think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u192	Yeah, it's kind of embarrassing that the minister who didn't announce his absence isn't here. But I suggest you ask the question anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you. Today, we have already discussed justice in two of the questions that we have put forward, and I will not be talking about justice, which the Minister has already talked about quite extensively, but my question concerns the use of resources in justice. Before the day we could see that the educational centre of the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary was organised in Portorož Days of the Slovenian judiciary. If you count on that schedule, which has now miraculously disappeared from the Internet on my question, but I have the matter squeezed, there were 6.5 hours of professional debate, education and similar matters and 9.5 hours of fun in two days. That's the sum of that invitation, and I only counted three hours as a picnic, usually picnics take about six hours. I ask the Minister the following questions: How many judges or other servants attended these judicial days? Was Friday recognized as a working day? Did they have hours recognized for Friday? Were they given a workday or a workday on Saturday? Did the participants have paid daily bills for their business trip? Since the answers might be negative here, I also ask: Has any euro gone from any budget item of the state budget to any amount? I also ask this question: Is the budget or the Ministry of Justice or courts spent or in the form of grants or something like that for a judicial society? So if there's any kind of tide. Next: Does the Ministry of Justice or which other budgetary authority co-finance the Society of Judges? How much money has been spent on representation in individual courts? In fact, we all know that we've been very downtrodden. What funds are intended for education in courts? Of course, if the time goes by, I would like the same answers for the prosecution's organisation, if the time goes by, but I will ask the Minister for a written supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have been prepared here by my colleagues to try to answer all questions from my colleague Gorenak. Court records first. The question concerned the resources spent on education and the resources spent on representation. 68 000 Euro821 was spent on education in the courts in 2012. This information applies to all courts in Slovenia. However, I can say that in recent years this amount has been much higher, for example, the highest in 2009, when 465 thousand euros were spent on education and then 2010 297 thousand euros, 2011 207 thousand euros, and 2012, as I said, 68 thousand 821 euros. When it comes to funds spent on representation, the amount of these funds spent in 2012 is EUR 21 000 760, and some more money has been spent on representation in recent years. In 2009, say 63 000 813 euros, 2010 45 000 690 euros, 2011 36 000 820 euros and last year as limited. That's forensics. Then education costs in 2012 for the State Prosecutor's Office. All state prosecutors in Slovenia allocated €42 000 400 in 2012 for education. Costs of representation in 2012, again all state prosecutors in Slovenia, €7 000 631. These are some vague data for the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office regarding the costs or money spent on education and representation. I would also like to say that, in addition to the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office itself, which have committed the amounts I have mentioned to education, the Ministry of Education has allocated the main resources for the education of both judges and prosecutors. As you know, and as I have already mentioned in the answers to the previous parliamentary questions, the establishment of the Centre for Education in Justice, which operates within the Ministry I am leading, was one of the conditions for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The mission of this centre is extremely important. As I said before, I intend to strengthen him significantly. Here I also have information on the money allocated in 2012 for the education of judges, prosecutors and other staff in both judicial institutions, namely the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office, within the framework of the state budget, i.e. the Ministry's budget, which I run. Thus, EUR 177 000 367.62 of integrated funds was used for this purpose in 2012. This is kind of the kind of data that I am trying to answer briefly, but at the same time sufficiently vaguely and transparently, the fundamental questions of my colleague Gorenak. But I also have data here that, what I have presented more vaguely so far, more specifically, represent how much money has been spent on quotations, how much money has been spent on some other education-related purposes, but I think that this first part would end with this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u196	Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Because I know it's hard to say all these numbers, I would still ask if I could get this information in writing. In particular, I find it interesting to have a representation in the courts: EUR 21 000 700. Let the ministers themselves think about how many ministers they have, say, as a representative, and we'll just see. Minister, I'd like to ask for that information, but maybe you didn't hear me before you got in, like, these court days: Was it 6.5 hours of education and 9.5 hours of fun? Did this go to the judges' expense or did anyone from the state budget take anything away, the diaries? Are they on a working day or not on Friday? If you have this information, I'd like to request a supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u198	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u199	With regard to the purely specific question concerning the organisation of judicial days or the costs of judicial days, let me say the following. Judgmental days are a traditional event, a conference that has been taking place since the establishment of the Centre for Education in Justice, which I mentioned earlier and which works within the Ministry I run, with the Ministry of Justice contributing only to the costs of lecturers. Thus, through the Centre for Education in Justice or for short CIP, the costs of lecturers, specifically for this year's trial days totalling EUR 1 thousand and EUR 40 net, are to be borne. It is true, however, that this arrangement also means that they will be reimbursed for any travel expenses if the lecturers report them. So the payment of copyright fees to the lecturers, plus the travel costs, if they report them. I don't have that information now, whether they've reported it or not. This payment of EUR 1 000 40 relates to a total of 8 school lectures by different lecturers, and the cost of 45 minutes of lectures by top legal and other experts is EUR 130 net under the order of the Minister and has already been reduced last year. Other funds from the budget of the Ministry of Justice for the purpose of judicial days – and the same applies to prosecutor's days – are organised for the same event – so other funds have not been paid. In addition, let me say that the Centre for Education in Justice does not co-finance the operation of any society or society of judges, except in the case of co-organisation of educational events, as mentioned earlier, when the Centre covers the costs of lecturers' fees under the conditions laid down by the Minister in the opinion of the Centre’s Section for Education of Judges and Prosecutors, which the Centre is responsible for carrying out. Education programmes at these events shall establish a centre and societies in agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u201	I don't think I got some answers, especially if they had a working day or didn't have a working day on Friday, and I also know about the numbers that they can't be said so quickly. I was a little bit stabbed by the number 130 euro net per hour. I hope that the school minister is cutting ears: University of Maribor – €35 for a professor or an extraordinary professor. That's how we squeezed them. Gentlemen, we still admit 130, and I hope that there was no Government of Miheljak among the lecturers, even though I saw it on the schedule. Minister, I'd still like to ask, for the first time: For some additional explanations. I'm missing data for Friday. And secondly, given the state of justice, I propose that we discuss this in a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now it's Mr. Krivec's turn. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. The Jew apologized, but please ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. I wanted to ask the actual Jew about the items in the balance sheet, which the area of the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters is in very short supply. This is a reduction of 63%, which means a reduction from 17 million 200 to 6 million 400. That's why I'm asking the minister: On what basis did the Government decide to reduce so much? It's over 60% reduction. I also do not understand the Ministry and the Government, given that such a large cut is envisaged for the whole area of protection, resolution or recovery of the consequences of natural disasters and in this package also to eliminate the consequences of an earthquake where such large cuts of costs may be problematic mainly because many contracts with operators have already been signed. That's why I'm asking myself: Are the Ministry and Government aware of the cost or damage to the State from this title? I also ask myself: Are they aware that this will mean an increase in and an extension of the earthquake recovery as well as other remediation of the consequences of natural disasters, which will also mean an increase in costs at the final stage? There is also a significant increase in the costs of contractual penalties, longer periods of temporary resettlement and the re-establishment of construction and security. That's why I'm asking myself: What is the point of such a drastic reduction in resources under the heading to remedy the consequences of natural disasters? Even in the event of a flood, the next flood may result in even significantly higher costs at the same location, where the repairs of these initial injuries are now envisaged. Similarly, people and local communities will be affected in these areas and, as a result, resettlement times will be significantly increased. Thus, the delay in restoring and eliminating these consequences after each new accident increases the cost, and in the event of an earthquake recovery, it can even cause some danger to human life. I also do not understand this reduction in the context of State and Government aid to the construction sector, to designers, construction and installation operators, which, in the context of the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, also prolongs their existence. Since the Minister is not here, I expect his written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can expect a reply within 30 days. Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u205	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia, there is still a claim that we have too few doctors. If we compare ourselves with other European countries, we are on the tail by the number of doctors per population. In some countries this number is double or even more than in Slovenia. Until recently, Slovenia has received a significant number of doctors from other countries, about 50 to 70 years. During the time of Mr Marusic's Minister of Health in Pahor's Government, a law was even passed that facilitated the flow of doctors from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. The emigration or departure of doctors from Slovenia is also considerable or still taking place. In Slovenia there are two medical faculties, which contribute about 250 new doctors annually. Preparations and specialisations shall be paid from public health resources. In the last year, medical institutions have restricted the employment of doctors, including specialists, after the completion of their specialization, or after their training. Thus, about 150 young doctors at the Employment Institute are threatened with 300 by the end of the year. Doctors are particularly lacking at the basic level – general or family doctors. In Slovenia about 2 000 people come to one general doctor, while in some neighbouring countries, Austria, Germany, France, for this purpose three times as many doctors, it is said, about 700 inhabitants per doctor. American research has shown that a higher number of general doctors per population means a lower mortality rate of 6%, which is of course not considered a higher number of specialists at secondary level. 30 years ago, after a one-year internship, we had to be compulsory for two years at the primary level in healthcare homes. Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar, I ask you: What measures do you plan to employ young doctors, especially at the primary level, with such a shortage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u207	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The field of healthcare personnel is actually critical, at least if we're talking about doctors. But also as a whole, all healthcare workers represent up to 76% of the country's employees on average. It is said that we are completely understaffed, and this deficiency is even more pronounced in doctors, especially in family doctors. This mean number is then reflected in high burdens, overburning, even in the shorter life span – we know that co-workers at the primary level also have more than 10 years of life shorter than other women in the population. On the other hand, we often face the impression that some earn too much because they are doing the work they are assigned to do. The only possibility and reality that should be taken into account is the long-term increase in the number of doctors in the country. This is not in line with the conclusions and agreements reached at this time with the unions, where the health sector is also covered by the 1 % reduction rate of public servants, with which the Ministry of Health does not fully agree. We have proposed to reduce labour costs, not the physical number of employees. Indeed, this would also reduce the number of overtimees, including any on-call city would be reduced, the introduction of a tourist work and the lower workload of employees. In the long run, a policy of reducing the number of doctors would lead to disaster, given that we are a population that is becoming older, increasingly burdened with chronic non-communicable diseases. Five or ten years from now, we could really be able to face the fact that we can treat more or less abroad and very little at home. That is why we are still trying to ensure that these young doctors, as we are talking about today, are further employed. There are over a thousand who will complete the specialization, which more or less replace retired doctors – these young doctors after completion of basic education, this is a medical faculty. What we can do quickly and what we have done is, first of all, to restrict employment mainly from Member States that are not from the European Community, mainly from the former Yugoslavia. This year, this number is foreseen for no additional employment under this heading. Then there is another option for which we are looking for some funding resources is the call for re-specialisations in autumn time. However, we need to provide additional money for this; we have already committed 66% of our specialisations to family medicine in this part of our specializations in the spring call. Here we need to know that all these places, despite the unemployed doctors, are not perfect today. These colleagues want a place in hospitals or specific cities, and this is probably not going to work, given that we are defending the interests of the state. Then there is another possibility that after six months we will be able to work in hospitals for 12 months. Other changes in the context of the introduction of a secondariat, for example, where work would also be assigned to the primary level for one year, are a matter of legislative change and cannot be changed quickly, especially without adequate consensus in the field of expertise. In this year, I believe that we will succeed, another number will be employed, and in the long run it is necessary to realize that if we fail to provide additional resources for health care, then this means great problems for health care. Indeed, we must once accept the fact that today we still have health care at the level of the highly developed countries, including the Scandinavian countries, to devote half the money to the population of the population that these countries are committed to. If this relationship does not change, of course, it means that it will actually have to be affected in several areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. But there are other things I'd like to light up. We have recently witnessed the revolution of doctors at primary level, that they can no longer work and that they will only focus on the most difficult patients in the infirmary, while the guides will be easier to send specialists to secondary level. All of this will complicate the system even more. Also, specialist outpatients are overloaded and neither patients nor doctors are satisfied. I would also like to point out exactly what you have already mentioned to the reduction of healthcare workers, as health care is also included in the public sector, where wages are standardised, just as for officials as it is for top experts. With the same criteria, the Minister of Public Administration wants to reduce the number of employees both in public administration and in healthcare. We know that the number of children is decreasing or at least not increasing, unfortunately. However, the number of patients is increasing, especially with the ageing population, with longer life expectancy, with better treatment for chronic patients, thus increasing the need for more medical and nursing personnel. Mr. Minister: How will you advocate to the government that health care is not a public administration, but a highly specialized activity that requires adequate personnel, both doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other professional staff, which does not grow overnight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thus, the rise in the dissatisfaction of family doctors has certainly led to a decrease in the prices of health services due to the increasing payment of contributions in the face of a difficult economic situation. The fact is that they examine more patients than abroad, and the second fact is that they must also be aware that it is impossible to hire 400 or 500 doctors at the primary level overnight. It will be necessary to find a compromise during the gradual recruitment of young colleagues at the primary level, as well as in the amended way of financing basic health care, and to make it available for a certain period of time to phase out these anomalies. As it is said, this is related to additional funds and, above all, to government-level interviews. We support the view that in the field of health, which actually falls down by number of employees, it makes sense to reduce the cost of work, which can be done and has also occurred in recent years with additional employment. In fact, I think it went from 350 thousand overtime to 250 or something over 200 thousand, and this can continue, of course, with new jobs. But then these hours are cheaper. This is a more rational approach, and I hope that there will also be some understanding on this side of colleagues. In fact, we need to know that when we find out in 5 or 10 years that doctors are really missing, then we need every new student for the next 10 to 15 years to train him for this job. Therefore, I say that such a long-term policy would certainly endanger the public health system in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Iva Dimic has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Urosh Chufer! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 adopted on 21 May of this year gave direct budgetary users the power to decide for themselves to redistribute spending rights to payment accounts from subgroup goods and expenditure up to 2 % of their budget adopted. In Novi Slovenija, we have already opposed the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2013 and 2014. In fact, at the same time in the National Assembly we also decided on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, by which we reduced the basic salaries of civil servants by compressing the salary scale. We have also adopted certain other restrictive measures with a view to reducing the budgetary expenditure on public servants' salaries. By amending this Law on the implementation of the budget for 2013 and 2014, in particular by providing for the fourth paragraph of Article 17 of this Act, you have, in fact, destroyed all savings from the reduction of the salaries of public servants. You have given the heads of the direct budget users a blank mandate to increase the wage item without any predetermined criterion or even without the consent of the proposer of the financial plan of the direct budgetary user. This solution is not only harmful from a fiscal point of view, but it introduces into the budgets of the direct budgetary users non-transparentness and the possibility of illegal spending and even the illegal distribution of these funds. The President of the budgetary user shall be the one who decides which public servant is entitled to an increase in the amount of work and the amount of resources he owes to him under this Title. Thus, the leaders of direct budgetary users from these redistributed resources will be able to pay the prizes on the increase in the amount of work to those public servants who may not be the most successful at work and the increased amount of work they have not even done and may be loyal to them. Mr. Minister, I ask you: In view of the adoption of the new Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budget, how will you provide the planned budget savings for the salaries of public servants? How will you ensure that the eligibility and rationality of spending of direct budget users in the coming years are monitored?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u215	Dear Mrs Iva Dimic, thank you very much for your question. As you have already noted, direct budgetary users have been given the power to decide for themselves which allocations of spending rights, between salaries and between the goods and expenditure accounts for goods limited to 2 % of their budget adopted. When we looked at this issue, we said that one of the fundamental principles that we must follow is the reality of the planned expenditure. When we saw that in some bodies, as was the case in the 2013-2014 budget adopted, we could not reach these numbers with our own measure. In fact, it did not make much sense to insist on goals that were not attainable and that were not realistic and would reflect in such or otherwise as a violation of a legal decision or a budget on the other hand. In order to be as realistic as possible, we have removed this restriction, allowing certain restrictions and certain transfers to be made. Of course, this does not in any way reduce the responsibility of those responsible for these non-direct budgetary users, and they still have to adhere to all the other rules concerning remuneration, as far as overtime is concerned and so on. Thus, all these obligations remain, in no way goes, and are not allowed to be fully free to do so, but within the framework of the rules that actually apply to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you. Why did I raise that question? It will be even more worrying that the law will allow the transfer of funds from the item Goods and Services to the item Pay. This would mean that the budgetary user will not cover the planned and necessary material costs and will thereby cause damage to the property of the budgetary user. For example, the direct budget user would rather cancel regular service of service vehicles, perhaps sometimes even vehicle registrations, further fail to ensure the maintenance of heating systems, facilities and the like, and this will prefer to devote funds to salaries. This can happen if they decide. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: In what way will you ensure control over the use of funds by direct budget users in order to avoid such cases as I have listed? How will you act if the direct budget user thus does more or more serious remedial damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We are at a time when savings are needed in all areas, not only on wages, but also in other areas. A number of things need to be looked at in these times, whether they are really needed or not. Sometimes we see that some maintenance contracts, investments are somehow made after inertia, because it has already been planned. I do not think that this has been done in order to put something particularly under pressure, but I hope that it will nevertheless contribute to more rational consumption in other areas, not just on wages. We already had an agreement on wages with the public sector unions, and one part of it has already been made. In the second part, however, some degree of pressure will have to be increased and will contribute to greater rationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u221	Since I did not understand how control over the use of funds with direct budgetary users will be ensured, I propose that the State Assembly hold a public debate under Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your proposal, which will be decided in the framework of the votes. I give the floor to Mateja Pučnik, who has a question for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In the media, I could see that you informed the primary school with the district that with the next school year 2013/2014 the introduction of a compulsory foreign language would be discontinued. According to the responses, this news has upset a large number of primary schools, both teachers, parents and students involved in this project. The former government planned to become an optional subject for students from the 4th to the 9th classes with the next school year, and the introduction of a compulsory second foreign language from the 7th to the 9th classes would gradually continue. Obviously, that's not going to happen, because it's clearly shutting down. The primary schools involved in this project assess the Minister's move to be thoughtless and unprofessional, as the introduction has proved to be good practice. They also believe that the Ministry's move is worrying because, contrary to the Resolution on the European Strategy for Multilingualism, the guidelines of the European Commission and the Council of the European Union, which dictate the learning of at least two foreign languages in our primary schools. It is also contrary to the Resolution on the national language policy programme 2012-2016, which provides that the compulsory foreign language must be properly implemented in primary school legislation. I personally believe that the Ministry should take into account the opinion of the profession and parents in its decision and, above all, take decisions that are good for children; and the abolition of the compulsory foreign language is certainly not. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How many primary schools and pupils are involved in the project of the introduction of another foreign language as a compulsory apprenticeship? How much money have we spent on this project? What studies have led to the decision to end this project? Why does the Ministry not take into account the opinions of the profession and parents in its decision? And not last: How many foreign language teachers are going to lose their job as a result of this suspension of this project? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u225	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Members, thank you very much for your question. First and foremost, I think there is something to be said before the National Assembly: we do not remove another foreign language. The project of this foreign language will continue for at least two years, so that this generation that started the project, and it was only a project that it carried out – and now it is part of the answer to your question – only a third of schools will continue until these children finish primary school. At the same time, it is not true that children will not have a chance to speak two foreign languages later. On the contrary! They'll have a chance for even three foreign languages. In the first class, we introduce an optional subject, as you know, for all those who had a foreign language in preschool or whatever else — we are talking about the first foreign language. From 2nd to 9th grade – after the early learning of the foreign language and from 2nd to 9th grade we will introduce compulsory learning for all children of the first foreign language. In the second triad, from fourth to ninth grade, comes the next possibility of learning a foreign language and then in the last triad, that third option, if you want it. In short, what the Ministry does is that it will make a choice, and that it will make a choice because it is not all the way through to further education in two foreign languages. In fact, those who continue to be educated in secondary technical or other secondary vocational or whatever, except in high school, will not, of course, have the possibility of two foreign languages. Not to speak further and upwards about colleges, there is usually only one foreign language in college, except for exceptions such as, say, a programme of international relations, where you have mandatory two foreign languages. As far as your question about your parents or experts is concerned. That's why we didn't make up our minds at all. I'd rather say that the previous decision, which is my predecessor's decision, was more of an idea. What we are following is the White Paper on Education and Education 2011. So where the research involved, if you believe the Preface of the White Paper, 20 thousand 615 persons, of which 6 thousand 333 teachers and teachers or teachers and educators, 507 principals, 1 thousand 787 students, 11 thousand 888 parents, 39 thousand counselling workers and 121 employers. I think lately this is the widest research and also the most substantive and professionally supported document, as far as this is concerned. In this context, there was a special subgroup for foreign languages, and on the basis of the survey carried out, I can assure you that most of the principals, teachers and parents felt that the other foreign language did not belong to the compulsory subjects of the primary school, but they generally agreed that the other foreign language must be and it is right that our children have it. This is also what we propose and propose in this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Here you go, Matthew Puchnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for this part of the answer. Although I must say that, from everything I say, I still cannot understand the reasons why this project of the introduction of a compulsory foreign language would not continue. You also did not say how many teachers are going to lose their job by shutting down this project. I also cannot agree with you on the learning of foreign languages within the scope of the selection courses. On the contrary, I myself have been teaching three selected subjects and I know very well what students want in the selection of what they like to choose, and I feel that learning another foreign language cannot be based on some voluntary choice of nine or ten, eleven or twelve years old primary schoolboys because these young people find it very difficult to judge what will benefit them later in life. At the same time, at the same time, they are at the most plausible years for foreign language learning and, at least in my opinion, they are also decided on a foreign language within the scope of the selection courses. I would like to stress once again, at least to the extent that it is possible for the media to understand that the project for the introduction of a compulsory foreign language has been well received, that the success of the project has also been confirmed by the professional team of the Education Institute accompanying the project and is also in line with all European standards. I know that there is a big problem with financial resources as well, but I would like to point out here that we have already been able to prove in this mandate that we know how to get together when it is necessary for our youngest; we have increased funding for the higher education sphere, we have provided resources for school nutrition, and in this case, I think we could find a common way. So once again, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: In this case, why are you not prepared to find solutions that would allow our children to have the same educational opportunities as their peers in developed European countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dr. Pickalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Look, first of all, about the Department of Education. I think the Institute of Education said very well: For ten reasons or ten matters that he had evaluated, three spoke in favour of introducing a compulsory foreign language, seven against one or the other – as I was able to detect it. You are not right when you speak, because the question of primary school is at least at first the question of explaining and it is also this problem – not to mention the problem in bilingual areas where some, say, can occur, really strange situations regarding teaching foreign languages. Why are we continuing this project? Because we want those — and now we are talking about the project — who were already in this project, one-third of the schools to finish it. In three years they will also complete this, and by then the rest of the system will be so complemented that we will not have a hole in the teaching of foreign languages. As far as employment is concerned, I must say I have no calculations. But there is no financial issue in this sense as the primary reason why we will ask the National Assembly to do this novel. The primary reasons are, as is said, professional reasons, namely the substantive, vertical teaching of languages, and finally the number and distribution of teachers in Slovenia to teach another foreign language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Tavčar is next. It's a matter for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! In the light of the current provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures and the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, there is a strong systemic problem of applicable public procurement legislation which allows the submission of complaints by unelected operators without justified reasons, which leads to serious blockades on the implementation of State investments and the consequent withdrawal of European funds' grants. Public procurement experts have pointed out for many years the problem of abuse of appeal procedures by unelected operators and the need to improve legislation so that public procurement can be implemented more effectively. The Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the apparent protection of the same rights of tenderers, is completely disregarding the protection of contracting entities which are not allowed by the applicable legislation to award contracts within a reasonable period of time, and in particular by indirectly blocking the use of grants of public interest, even though they should act on the contrary. Let me give you two of the most typical examples. A public order has been published to update and extend the cleaning plant. Due to the complexity and specificity of the contract, the contracting authority shall order the preparation of the contract to an experienced undertaking with strong legal experience and long-term experience. Please apply to two tenderers who both meet the tendering conditions, the only tendering criterion is the price and therefore the transaction is awarded to the tenderer at a lower price. The choice is completely transparent, the outcome of the tender is unequivocal, there is no error in the procurement process. In the battle for business we are witnessing on the construction market, the unelected contractor complains, however, that certain minorities in the tender documentation have been discriminatory. And there's another case. A public contract of EUR 25 million was awarded. The selection decision shall be appealed to by a tenderer who does not meet the conditions at all as he has a blocked transaction account for several months. The State Audit Commission will find a reason to re-publish the invitation to tender, although the same possibilities have not been violated by the applicant. I therefore ask you on the basis of the above: Will your ministry prepare an amendment to the legislation that will regulate legal protection in procurement procedures in order to prevent the abuse of appeal proceedings? Are you suggesting that a mechanism should be put in place for the State Audit Commission to decide, at least in the case of investments in which we obtain grants, within the prescribed time limits? It is known that the Commission does not take into account the Government's conclusions that the European funds of the related audit procedures should be dealt with as a priority. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u233	Dear Member, Mrs Irena Tavčar, thank you very much for your initiative and question. Perhaps I would say that at the Ministry of Finance we are aware of these procurement problems and we have already prepared amendments to the Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures. We also sent the law to a public debate last week, and we will send it to the National Assembly this month. In this law or amendment of the law, we are trying to address precisely these problems, on the one hand, prioritising the audit requests relating to public procurement co-financed by the European Union, precisely because there may be problems with drawing and credibility in this area. And on the other hand, we are looking at how to increase only the efficiency of public procurement and give greater legal certainty to those who have received orders in such a way that they will not be able to complain further to any element of the offer, but only to those who are really key and essential to the order itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. The next is Mr Franz Breznik, who has a question for two ministers, namely Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mag. Stanka Stepišnik and Minister of Finance Dr. Cuffer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u235	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister! The first part of my question goes solely to the Minister of Finance, because I believe that much of the issue is somehow the most directed to him, but of course it is also indirectly directed to the Minister for Economic Development and Economic Affairs, because I believe that some part of the country's long-term macroeconomic policy has also emerged from this issue. Companies owned by the state are an important part of the Slovenian economy and face major challenges. In 2011, state-owned companies realised one sixth of the total added value of the Slovenian economy and caused about half of the total losses of the Slovenian enterprise sector and employed only 1 in 8 people – in the private sector of course. As detailed in the 2013 in-depth review, this is mainly a European Commission working document and in particular an assessment of the national stability programme for Slovenia in 2013. This Commission notes that State ownership includes a complex network of often financial unstable banks, insurance groups and non-financial corporations that own each other. State ownership and impact on state-owned enterprises with relatively good results are used to redistribute funds and indirectly recapitalise other state-owned enterprises in economic difficulties. This hampers the privatisation process needed to increase productivity, deepen capital markets and strengthen the inflow of technology from foreign direct investment. A number of state-owned enterprises are facing adverse financial conditions that may worsen in view of the expected further decline in economic growth. Most companies are heavily indebted and have been recapitalised several times in the past. I will only mention some recapitalisations in 2011, for those who somehow believe in some policy of national interest, so that these figures will somehow be clear to them. In 2011, we recapitalised the New Ljubljana Bank with 243 million, New KBM we recapitalised, of course, by paying the profits of Eles, Post Slovenia and GEN energy 48 million euros, Nafta Lendava 10, Peko 6 million, Court 60 million, Kad 90 million, Adria Airways 49 million. That is why I have the question of a Member of Parliament in particular because, at this point, there are assemblies of state-owned enterprises and I am interested in the business outcomes of companies for the past period. How much profits did companies generate in 2012 in the majority of direct or indirect state ownership and how much of this profit will we get in the form of dividends back here in the state budget? I think it's unique. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the logical question: [[...]] Why continue to cultivate a policy of so-called national interest? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. I agree with you about the fact that the management of public-owned companies has not been the best in the past, and I am not sure that this will ever be significantly better in the future, because of its very nature, although there is a lot of improvement here, but I believe that private-owned companies, with private-owned owners, are substantially managed as state-owned. As far as dividends are concerned, I don't know how to give you a completely definitive figure, because, as you said yourself, the assemblies are still going on and will be going there by the end of August, and I can tell you that we expect to get €90 million into the budget under this heading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u238	Here you go, Minister of Economy, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u239	If I can just make it up to you. I don't have this information for non-economic companies, but I do have it for companies. In 2012, companies, perhaps some data to get one picture out of this, generated around 78 billion revenue. This is a circus of 59,000 companies across the Apes, which broadcasts business reports, the number of employees per year falls, and these 59 thousand companies have had 435 thousand employees, with net profits of 2 billion 600 and losses of 2 billion 300 net losses, that is to say net profit of 300 million. But more importantly, the data from these 59 thousand societies that we're looking at have created 16 and half billion net worth. Above all, it is interesting that the cost of working for these companies is only 13,2 % and the cost of material is 73%. This is said to still be a society that is materially oriented, while this cost of work is very low value or extremely low net added value. This information shows us what we need to fix in the future. The area that we need to fix in Slovenia is primarily the net added value of the employee. This one is almost two times lower than Austrian. It is in the Austrians, because it is about like a gross domestic product, in Austria there are 35,000 per employee, and in us if we divide 35.5 billion gross domestic product into two million, we only get to 17,000. Similarly, the net added value is that we will not be able to increase the number of employees in the future more than, say, 50, 60 thousand — to 435 thousand. In particular, the net added value is important. However, the net added value means that it can only be achieved with more knowledge in the product, with more learned work in the product. In particular, we lack this link between knowledge and the product. They say there's a valley of death and almost 80% of knowledge is lost here. Therefore, we are still exporting, for example, products with low added value instead of exports with high added value. And another piece of information is interesting. Let’s say that we paid more than 2 billion companies for the financial expenditure of these 59 thousand companies with about 78 billion — that is, interest, perhaps some write-offs — more than was profit in all societies. This is, for example, also information on how difficult it is to plan with some minimum profits of 3-4% in the real sector, if you say financial expenditure is 6% or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u240	Mr. Beznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u241	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. I can tell you that the question is interesting. Above all, it is interesting because in the first part of my question — I apologize — I have somehow mentioned some statistics of this national interest in the first part of my question. I will only highlight a few other issues that I think are of the greatest interest to citizens and citizens when they ask what national interest means; whether it is to surrender it or not. The logic of 2011 when we recapitalised was that the price of all these recapitalisations of state-owned enterprises was EUR 500.6 million. At that time, we received dividends of the circus EUR 70 million in the budget. This means EUR 430 million minus was a national interest in 2011. This means that all of this must be covered, literally, by our citizens, citizens. EUR 430 million minus means that we have state-owned enterprises. So, even those profits that these companies have, these are monopolistic companies, most of them, have totally monopolistic positions, except for the specifics of Adria, which is a monopoly company, but still faces some competition in the international environment. I have just traced the Commission's investigation against Adria, mainly due to some non-transparent recapitalisation in all the years under way in the 85 million euro circus that is still under way. 85 million Euros of recapitalisation! I believe that the policy of national interest, even this year, when the New Ljubljana Bank is being recapitalised, 500 million, New KBM within 400 million, that old claims have already been transferred to a bad bank, you have therefore caused the policy of national interest to continue as such. So bad governance, the network that was running from the former totalitarian regime that was flooding. All these matters of national interest that have taken place since 2000, when the former President of the State said that all these matters must remain in national colours, all banks, most companies, all these companies today are in total trouble, taking all the profits [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Time's up. I'm asking both ministers, does anyone else want to comment? Minister Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u243	Perhaps I would just continue where I ended up earlier; out of those 77 billion we pay just 13%, that's only 10 billion, and that's where taxes and contributions are paid. If this were twice as big, as in Austria, then twice as much money would be available in the state budget for the social sphere and for the state spending. Therefore, it is extremely important that we all strive for the future, in particular to focus everything on the product, so that the added value is twice as much, because we will all benefit from it. However, if we lose money in the process, then I am afraid that we will not end up achieving the goal we all want, a greater added value is being made and the situation will be as it is. Nothing's gonna get better.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Would you like to submit a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. In this direction, as Minister Stepišnik is now talking about better governance, I would like a public debate to take place under Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, in particular how to redirect and how to better manage state-owned enterprises and where national interest policy has brought us. If we look at complete chronology, statements by the former president of the country that we should not sell anything, such as a statement from 2002, then the formation of the so-called Forum 21 in 2004, where all those companies that are in total trouble today and who are severely exhausting the Slovenian economy, then we have a clear picture of some national interest whether we should continue it or not. This public debate must also take place in the context of all these issues, which the European Commission has just published in its report on 29 May 2013, when it says that a unclear structure, a vague strategy, is also a sales strategy and wonders how the strategy is going to proceed. So, you've changed some strategy for selling these companies that don't have some big, I can say, cash flows. The largest money flows where there is significant evidence or there is significant evidence that in these companies this money is the most transformed outside of all frameworks, these companies are not in the national strategy. This is the problem that might arise in some public debate. Above all, I think that the national interest is the welfare of all citizens and citizens; the national interest cannot be the welfare of some who make the least contributions to this country; their only contribution is that they were once in a group that held this country in some kind of chess for 45 years. This is the only interest and they've turned their affairs from some party system into some kind of capital system. That's the problem with this country. With the clear data I have provided today, it is typical that people, citizens and citizens literally give these people half a billion euros each year directly over taxes, above all that recapitalisation takes place. These are, of course, imprudent, with an abnormal organisational structure, a culture in these companies, where there has never been any serious rehabilitation. I'm not just talking about management. I think that you, as ministers, together with the secretaries of state, will find that you cannot even review all contracts in one ministry within one or two years. How, then, will you be in one company with a cash flow of more than €3 billion? And this is the problem of Slovenian national interest! Citizens and citizens are strengthening these people daily and giving money over taxes, so it is collected, but they have no national interest whatsoever, a total minus, more than half a billion all year round. I hope you will overlook this and that this public debate will take place now [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It will somehow be established and that you will take this suggestion seriously well-intentioned, in the interests of greater prosperity for all citizens and citizens of this country. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thanks for the initiative. At the next meeting, the National Assembly may decide on the Minister's replies or discuss the responses of ministers and ministers if so decided in the context of the votes but not on the public debate. Just to clarify. Otherwise, it is Dr. Dragutin Mate to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In fact, my question is aimed at the same area or similar to that of previous colleagues who asked about primary schools. I will not ask about another foreign language, about the introduction of this, but in principle about your policy towards primary schools and the conduct of primary schools. First of all, I'm interested in your attitude towards children's schools with special needs. I want to know: Since you took over the Ministry, what have you done to move the state of school for children with special needs on Ptuj from the dead? In the last ten days, we can watch more than once on television about the state of children living in this environment, how their lives are quite cruel and difficult, the conditions in which they are educated, and how much more difficult they are. The second thing I'm interested in about primary education is a policy run by the Ministry, not only under your leadership, but for years, decades, if I say so, and it's linked to learning foreign languages. The vast majority of elementary schools in Slovenia as a foreign language teach English, of course except bilingual areas where the situation is slightly different. However, there are areas of Slovenia that are very strongly gravitating to neighbouring countries, say Styria. I want to know: Why don't you do anything and move away from the dead point of the matter that would lead to the German language and English being at least equally represented in primary schools and further in lower-level vocational or oriented education, if I say so like high school? Many of these people are looking for their opportunity and work – not only to search, but also now and for the last 20 years – in the neighbouring country, because they simply do not get jobs in Slovenia. Such knowledge of the foreign language would greatly help them to do so. In any case, traditionally this area was gravitated against a German-speaking area. Also in the 1970s and later, when that first economic migration wave was from the previous country, it was always directed towards Austria and the southern part of Germany. I want to know: Are you planning any action in this direction? Are you planning any change in the curriculum so that children in this area have a choice between one of these two foreign languages, if we cannot already have two foreign languages in our primary schools at this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u249	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for your question. First of all, about the special needs on Ptuj. Not only from the media, but also from talking to the Ombudsman, but also from other communications we have with the school, we know about this problem. We're doing what we can right now. We know that the problem, as you said, is huge and I do not want to promise something that I will not be able to carry out later, but in any case we will absolutely try, because children with special needs must be ours, and now I will say special care. As for German as the first foreign language. Unfortunately, this is the case – and I am consciously talking about it "unfortunately" – unfortunately, school legislation allows schools to be autonomous in their choice between English and German. I am aware of this problem, I know about this problem, I also know about historical gravity and attachment to German space, but our Basic Schools Act stipulates that schools are autonomous in this matter – whether they choose English or German. The interest of parents often influences the language that will be taught. As you know, parents realize this interest through the world of parents, and in this way you are right, more and more schools in northeastern Slovenia are moving from German to English. I have data for all of Slovenia. Currently or in the school year 2012/2013, 102 000 376 students were taught as the first foreign language of English or, if you want, with a percentage of 96.8, German 3 000 364, which is 3.2%. I'd like to mention another matter here. At 18 schools in this country, students can choose so that the school is not only English or German, but they can choose a compulsory foreign language, so we speak the first foreign language, and then they are properly distributed by departments. And so there is this option at 18 schools. As I said before in my reply to your colleague, not only the first foreign language, but also the second language and schools will also be available for a third foreign language. Unfortunately, however, it has become English in the last 30 years, and I may have made a little mistake, the "lingua franca" of this world, there is no more "lingua franca" French, Spanish or any of the other major world languages. Of course, this is also reflected in the interest of parents who are transferred to the interests of children. You are right: it would be right for our students to be educated in working languages or not in working languages, in the most common languages of the European Union, namely, French, German and English. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u250	Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u251	Minister, thank you so much for this part of the answer. There's something else I'd like to ask you about both of these things. In fact, the state of the school for children with special needs on Ptuj is the same as it is. It is long-lasting, but unfortunately other schools in Slovenia, which are visited by children with special needs, face very similar problems. You don't have to go far! Already in Ljubljana, practically downtown, this school is in the state it is in. Much better than Ptuj, but there's been practically nothing invested in their premises for years and years. Therefore, my concern is not only directed at one specific school, but generally. We have some legislation that talks about including children with special needs in primary schools with a regular programme and so on, but you know that there are a lot of problems in realizing this. Very much. That is why we need such schools, very few primary schools integrate these children into their curricula, so I think it is necessary that you devote sufficient and necessary attention to these schools, as you yourself have said. It's about another matter of foreign languages, but it is. I was alone from Maribor, there I attended both primary school and high school, and at the high school I attended, we had from 8 parallels half of the German class, it is said, as the first language. This situation has been dragging for a long time, it's not something we've had in the last 15, 20 years. I find it rather irresponsible of the legislators, the ministry, not to do anything about it. I don't have any predispositions to any foreign language, exactly special or from some historical connection, as anyone might have thought. It's simply that the structure of people who graduate from schools in this area is such that they don't all finish college and these people work in professions and for these professions. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm going to add a little bit to my answer about the school with special needs on Ptuj. You know, the easiest thing to do with a finger is to point at anyone. But here, in this particular case, it is necessary to say that the local communities – and now I speak in plural – have not done what is theirs, in this case also the founding obligations. One local community, as it is said, will not use names, one local community fulfils its obligations in such a way that it is not a problem. Other, small local communities around, unfortunately, don't do that. And you're right: yes, all our attention will be needed to make this school not in that condition. As for foreign languages, I'll say so. Of course, I am the first one to defend more foreign languages. It is also important to keep an eye on what experts are alerting us to, that often it is that our children are involved, and now I will say, including students, very badly in their mother tongue. So we need to find the right combination, the right relationship between foreign languages — now, to which foreign language and so on — and, on the other hand, the mother tongue. Don't forget your mother tongue. In particular, remember the mother tongue in bilingual areas, which then further stimulates the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, even though you have given me a substantial part of the answers, I will propose that we discuss both issues in more detail in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, if I say so. Not because I would not only be satisfied with your answers, which are very principled and stand. The point is that this is an extremely difficult problem that deserves a lot of attention. We can also avoid this by preparing a broader discussion on this subject, which we would personally be very happy to discuss. I would also like to say that, on my part, it was not meant to point a finger at you personally or the Ministry. I am talking about the systemic problem that we have in this area, which is quite serious. I think we have quite a few problems in our society to help parents who have children with special needs and integrate them as much as possible into society. This is a serious problem that we can't solve until tomorrow. Many times, it does not take very much money to do what we could do. And here's my concern. I think it's best that something on the system level changes here and then we make life easier for these kids in particular. It's not so much about parents, it's about these kids that they feel better integrated into society, especially in later periods of their lives. But it starts at primary school. As far as languages are concerned, I also think it's a systemic matter. This is a systemic issue; it is a systemic approach to this issue. If we look at the current education structure in Slovenia, we can see – if I express myself in terminology, which most people master – that it is in Slovenia with three-year vocational schools and with two-year majority of the population. It is said that more than 50% of the population has this level of school education. They are educated for the professions they carry out, as it is said at home, that I will not then be deceived into using incorrect terminology. Therefore, I think that we should take a systematic approach to things; we should find solutions that will help these people to move on. Finally, in these technical professions, if I say so, where there is also a lot of handiwork, there is a lot of literature in the German language and we use German standards. That's why it would be so good to talk about it. However, I strongly agree with you that a great deal of attention must also be paid to the mother tongue, which is sometimes not the same in certain processes or processes of education as you would like, and is not the level you would like. However, we must cultivate both this and the foreign language with which we help people gain education and then employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. On the other hand, it is Mrs Janja Nazast, who has a question for the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The situation in the justice of the Republic of Slovenia in the broader sense of the word is more than worrying. Not only the latest, in the public record, Hilda Tobut, but many others show that there are errors in court in cases that may also be intentional and may deprive many of their rights, but others allow them not to be convicted of alleged crimes. It has also happened that, as a result of such errors, the payer is ultimately compensated for the late or amended decision of the judge or court of the State, the perpetrator of such an act, the judge, and is not at all responsible. On other occasions, I would like to draw particular attention to the affair of Socius, where the request for an investigation by the Attorney General against the Socius criminal association was filed with the Ljubljana District Court in September 2006. Apparently, in this case, it is some sort of judicial blockade in the Ljubljana District Court, during which the obsolete hands run relentlessly. In addition, the case reported by the media days ago is to be highlighted: despite a European investigation order, the Slovenian judiciary has released a Russian citizen, who is owed a heavy bribe in the Federal Republic of Germany by the German prosecution. The German prosecutor's office has issued a European detention warrant for him and should therefore be handed over to the prosecution of the Federal Republic of Germany. If the data is true, then we are once again witnessing an international scandal, the culprit of which is the Slovenian judiciary. The latter cases show that timeliness, accuracy, efficiency and accountability in the work of the judicial authority in criminal matters are still necessary. It is also important to take responsibility for the work. I believe that the judiciary should only be aware of its great responsibilities in the context of the more effective functioning of the judiciary and also take responsibility. The judiciary is an independent branch of power, that is indisputable, but the Court's responsibility is an integral part of its independence. According to the Minister, I ask: With what concrete measures it will ensure the effectiveness of work and also accountability in the work of the judicial authorities so that there will be no such long-term proceedings in criminal matters as in the Socius affair, and mistakes, such as in the case of the release of a Russian citizen, which may also lead to delays in proceedings, which may enable some not to be convicted of crimes committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, a whole series of questions with similar content comes from the SDS Group. In principle, I do not criticize this, which only means that I will repeat certain things that I have already given in previous answers. In fact, you are asking what are the measures I intend to propose or implement in order to significantly improve the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary in the short term. That's what I can and can do as a minister. When it comes to specific matters, we all know that I do not have those powers, and I do not have them, that the executive branch does not generally have those powers. Therefore, I take this opportunity to comment on your question, at the same time, on the similar question raised by your predecessors or predecessors when they asked me in any way to comment on the current cases, whether it was the case, the case of Patricia or any other case. I'm not commenting on these cases, I'm not commenting on them, and I'm not commenting on them. And these other examples, such as the whole pile, may indicate some shortcomings in the operation of a system. And these shortcomings, which some specific cases show – because otherwise it is impossible to find out that something is wrong or that something is not working as it should – are, of course, something that requires my action and someone else, especially Parliament. As I have already said several times, these cases are not the only ones, some of these cases are also over-sealed in terms of what they show, there are a number of other cases that do not come into the public, which show even more that the Slovenian judiciary and the general judiciary have serious problems with efficiency, rational organisation, understanding the time in which we are, and generally with some modernisation of the whole system of justice, justice, the state prosecutor's office in particular. These are all questions that are very serious, very important and all of them I am dealing with, and this is what is expected of someone who is a minister in a government, and as I have already said in the answers to the previous question, in particular by proposing appropriate legislative changes, as well as by some other measures, in particular education, the introduction of information technology and so on. When it comes to legislative changes, my objectives are clear and my plan is clear. So, with legislative changes aimed at preparing all the things that the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office and the other systems need at the legislative level, in order to then – I stress – themselves, they will have to make these changes – they will also make these changes. In fact, some legislative changes are needed in order to have, in the judiciary, all the tools they need, all those legal bases, the legal rules so that they can update their systems quickly and efficiently, adjust the time in which we, in particular, are in 2013 and not quite back, as many of these circles sometimes seem to think. And here I'm not thinking about, I'm not thinking about ideological issues, but I'm thinking about simple time running and systems need to be updated. These are questions of modernisation, modernisation. These legislative changes, which I say I have a clear plan and a clear vision, I have also presented many times about them. One of those, which is not now directly directed towards the judiciary as a whole, but in the judicial proceedings, these are bankruptcy insolvency proceedings, has already been carried out. The bankruptcy law has changed significantly, it has been adopted in Parliament, already in force. I expect great results from this important change in bankruptcy law. Another such important step has been taken – either the common signature or the common commitment of the judiciary and the government to our citizens and citizens on what we intend to do, so that the issues you are talking about will no longer appear or that the systems will become more modern, more effective. But in more detail, I will present these steps, so what I intend to do so that such things will no longer happen, in the second part of my response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u260	Mrs. Attack, you still want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Thank you very much. So the minister has no other job. So now you're out of options. The next one is mag. Matthew Tonin, who will question the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u261	Dear Vice President! But I would have waited for Minister Pikalo to return to the hall because I didn't see him unless you knew where he was.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u262	It's true. The Minister's not with us. He announced his absence from 18.45 further, but I was informed that he had urgent business in government. If you wish, you will ask this question and then decide whether you want the answer to the next meeting or whether you will be satisfied with the written answer. Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u263	If this is true, the situation must be very serious if the minister has announced that he will not be here since 6:45 p.m. and now it is 5:45 p.m. This is how something serious and big happens in the country. Mrs. Potrata certainly knows that. I'll go to my question. I am one of those happy generation who practically completes his primary school and later education in Slovenia alone. Unfortunately, our generation is also one of those who practically does not know and do not know the reasons why Yugoslavia has fallen apart and why Slovenia became independent. When I was a student walking around the world, and when I asked my colleagues what those fundamental points they gave during the lessons of history were, they all said that these were the times from the origin of their country, or from the time their country gained independence. But if you look at Slovenian textbooks and Slovenian learning program, you will find that there is little about Slovenian independence of the fight. Most of the time in elementary school and even in high school, there is no time to define or teach these things. And you know how in children, if one thing is self-sustaining – and for a number of young people, Slovenia is self-sustaining –: to those things that are self-sustaining, we tend to act so, very 'in Umepisian'. The minister in charge of education, too, I wanted to ask: What will he do in his mandate to give greater weight to Slovenia's independence during the lessons of history, rather than to transform the entire Middle Ages, we will also put all the 1945 offensives over and simply forget the 1980s and 1990s?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u264	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. Would you please specify whether you would like a written answer or an oral answer at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u265	Since the Minister is so busy with extraordinary matters, I will also be satisfied with the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you very much. My colleague's a magician. Majda Potter warned that it would be appropriate to say that the Minister had announced his absence from 13 to 15 hours, which is true, but that does not change the fact that now that he should be in the Chamber and answer the questions of the Members, he is not. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, a question for the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u267	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We know the conclusions of the Assembly of the two largest state banks, namely the decision adopted at the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank on the recapitalisation of EUR 500 million, and the decision of the NKBM Assembly on the recapitalisation of EUR 400 million, totalling a weak billion or 900 million. In my opinion, something is about to happen next recapitalisation, and I am assessing somewhere in a good half year. We know very well what governance was like, what business was like, what transparency was like and what transparency there was in the business of banks so far. If last year’s banks took three quarters of a year to put state information on claims on the plan, then it’s very sad that the bank takes three quarters of a year to look for data, results! But I don't believe it. I myself believe that this was a deliberate concealment of the transparency of banking or financial transactions in our country. Now we are investing in this – not to say a financial mine, which is not transparent, is the new 900 million. That's why I'm asking: Why not first clean up the banks or transfer all the bad claims to the Bank's Claims Management Company and only after the banks have been cleared, because the banks would actually be transparent, invest new, fresh capital? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u269	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Maybe there's only one thing I could do first. At both banks where the Assembly adopted a decision on recapitalisation, there were up to 500 million and up to 400 million. So this doesn't automatically mean a total of 900 million, it could be less. As for the very question, why not first clean up the bank of bad claims and then recapitalise. In fact, the main intention of a bad bank is to transfer bad claims to them. It's a basic matter. The recapitalisation must only be made as an accompanying measure for a very simple reason, because the prices at which claims are transferred from banks to bad banks are lower than those currently valued in banks, and this creates an additional need for capital. For this reason, these two measures must be simultaneous. These recapitalisations are, in fact, preparatory measures for the transfer of bad claims. A certain small part of the transfer may take place earlier, within the capital adequacy of the banks and the main part must be at the time of recapitalisation. Since the transfer does not take place in one day, but is a longer period of time, the recapitalisation must be preceded by the matter that the bank does not fall below the required level of capital adequacy while the claims are being transferred and that it can normally operate. As a result, this is at the same time at the same time as at the same time as at the same time as at the same time. However, there is certainly no idea that the banks would recapitalize first and then forget to transfer claims to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] With such a great delay that the matter is already different. It's two measures that are the left and right legs of the same animal, if I may say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u270	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u271	Dear Minister, I have been partially satisfied with your response and I understand the urgency of these two urgent measures. On the other hand, I would ask the question: At what time, according to your assumption, could banks complete their cleansing or that this transfer would actually be completed? Let's say your grade, your thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you. We have set ourselves a goal, namely to carry the first claim to a lesser extent by the end of June, not to say symbolically, but not in a very material amount, at least to show that the process is running and running. Then, during the summer, somehow by the end of September, this procedure should be fully implemented and completed by the end of the year. The European Commission, which has to give a prior authorisation, is also discussing these stress tests and the quality of the asset that they also expect to work at the same time, precisely to ensure that they also receive a certain degree of assurance that this is a one-off – the last transfer and the last recapitalisation until a complete cleansing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Do you want to make a procedural suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u275	Your Honor! This is an important issue. It's a relatively big money. It's 900 million budget money. 900 million tax dollars. This is a topic that only needs to be discussed more broadly and that in the future it would not happen that we are actually just investing in a banking system, but actually these inputs in no action, in any activity – here I mean financially – do not come back. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a broader debate on this subject at its next meeting. That's what they say about the recapitalisation of banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u276	Thank you very much for the suggestion. It will be decided in the framework of the vote, I think, tomorrow. Mr Marijan Pojbič is next with a question for the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilca.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u277	Madam Vice President, Your Honor! The Real Estate Act allows the State to dispose of the immovable property of local communities free of charge if the use of such property is in the public interest of the municipality. This law has created a legal basis on which municipalities can carry out their activities of public interest with the assistance of the State. We know that municipalities already have enormous costs and cannot fully follow the public interest in the investments that local people would like. In this part, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if of course it has an interest, may provide at least the necessary real estate to carry out these activities and the municipality shall make only the necessary investments. I probably don't have to explain in particular that a lot of property that allows municipal activities to be carried out has a significantly higher value for local people than its market value. In this regard, I ask you: What are the criteria and criteria for such removals? How do you value the interest of the local community compared to that of the private investor? On what criteria and when do you give priority to the interests of the inhabitants and residents of the local community over private capital in the management of real estate? I also want to know: How long are the procedures for the free disposal of property to local communities or what the duration of the procedure depends on? Can the Government of the Republic of Slovenia change its mind after the procedure already carried out and the advantages of public interest over private interest? That's why I'm asking you: What are the criteria, criteria and the duration of the procedure for the free disposal of the immovable property of local communities when it is in the public interest?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u279	Dear Member, Your Honor! There are three legal bases for transferring the State's immovable property, whether it be public cultural infrastructure or cultural monuments, to the management of the local community. One is the quoted Law on the Real Property of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, the other is a statutory law in culture, which relates mainly to public infrastructure in the field of culture, and the third is the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which in its fourth paragraph of Article 6, provides for very precise conditions under which a monument owned by a State may exceptionally be alienated, provided that, of course, it improves its preservation and makes it more accessible. In the area of culture, we are largely following the fundamental law on culture, ZUJIK, concerning the transfer of ownership of public infrastructure in the field of culture. This is the property which has been declared public cultural infrastructure, and it is said that those which are included in the public cultural infrastructure. In this regard, the general policy of the Ministry of Culture is to effectively transfer as many such infrastructures as possible to the management of the local community. There are many problems, of course, with cultural monuments owned by the state. Here we follow the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, which somehow stems from four basic criteria. It may be possible to transfer or withdraw free of charge, if we follow the dictates of the law, or to revoke the property right on the cultural monument of national importance on the proposal of the Minister responsible for inheritance, in this case the Minister responsible for culture, and at the decision of the Government. In the case of the free transfer of the cultural monument of national importance, the Ministry shall verify the legal conditions which the local community must express, this interest, in the project task of revitalising the monument. In fact, there are four basic elements: the expressed interest of the local community in the management of a cultural monument or with infrastructure, the commitment to preserve and maintain a monument, the commitment to ensure the accessibility of cultural heritage as a public good, and the programme's recovery, the programme of management. The objective is, as I have pointed out, to transfer as many monuments owned by the State as possible to the priority management of local communities, where interest is expressed. This public interest has an absolute advantage over private interest. It is true, however, that, as you have rightly found, in individual cultural monuments, it is also true that because of the extremely high costs of maintaining individual monuments, the problem is that local communities cannot do so; and worse still, in individual monuments, the fact that some private interest is not part of it is also evident. In line with what I have said, procedures are carried out very individually, depending on the congregation’s readiness, on the congregation’s vision of what the monument is planning. We have clear examples of good practice and we also have cases where these procedures last longer, so that some time limits are not set here. Once again, the Ministry's interest is public infrastructure, state monuments as soon as possible and as effectively as possible put in the management of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, what you have just said is really very nice to hear and I would be very happy that this is also happening in practice. I'm going to give you one case that you probably know that doesn't follow what you've said so far. Let me give you an example of the Shrine Castle. I come from the constituency, where the Municipality of Kungota is also. Kungota Municipality has already invested some tens of thousands of euros in maintenance in the Svečina Castle in recent years. For several years now, the congregation has been seeking to gain the Shrine Castle from the State, and it has also shown a number of public interest. In the castle the municipality would organize summer children's camps, play drama games, painting colonies, wine shop for surrounding winemakers, restaurants with traditional cuisine, trade with local crops and so on and so on. In short, it is a public interest on the basis of which the Municipality of Kungota would also invest in activities that would enrich the local offer and help to identify the municipality. The former Government has already decided in March 2013 that the public interest shown is satisfactory and has adopted a decision on the unpaid transfer of the Monastery to municipal ownership. The transfer has not yet taken place today, despite the completion of the procedure. That's why I want to know: On the basis of what criteria and criteria, and on what basis can the Government suspend the procedure in the public interest of local self-government? When, in particular, can we expect a decision to transfer the castle to municipal ownership? In fact, the rental contract with the congregation with the State expires on 31. Seven. 2013 And one more thing to do. Dear Mr Minister, the Svečinski Castle is the pride of the Svečniks and the Svečinčanyks, and with it these people also identify themselves, and I therefore expect the decision to be reached as soon as possible and to be transferred to the municipality free of charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u282	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u283	Dear Mr. Pojbich. If the question were more precisely asked, I could give you more detailed information, but I must say the following. The hall has no status as a cultural monument, and in this sense it is not within the management of those properties that are in the fund of the Ministry of Culture, it is in the fund of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. According to my behaviour, the Ministry of Culture had no problem with the free transfer being carried out, even now it does not. But where is the transfer process itself, and I really can't tell you right now. Here I should ask my colleague Pikal, but also probably, given that he was not aware of the exact dictates of the question, we will have to resolve this and answer you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedure? All right, here we go. Mr Andrej Čuš will now ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Andrei Kopač Mrak, who apologized for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u285	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to all government representatives! In this first parliamentary question to which I would like to receive an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to touch on youth unemployment. A few days ago, we could see that unemployment rates among young people up to the age of 29 in the Republic of Slovenia are getting worse, we are approaching the figure of 30,000, although I am confident that a large proportion of unemployed young people are hiding in various student or student statuses that can also be bought. The Youth Guarantee Programme was approved in Brussels at the end of February. This means that the European Union will spend €6 billion in the next seven years to combat youth unemployment in the European Union, and these resources will be available to countries or regions where youth unemployment is above average. Unfortunately, this is also the case in Slovenia, at least in one case, more so in this Slovenian northeastern region. In late May, a joint commitment to the implementation of the Youth Guarantee Programme was also signed by some of the junior political parties in the Republic of Slovenia, including parliamentary parties. We have also followed this in the youth of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, because we need to act as soon as possible because we need to know that the situation is worse from day to day, it is unfortunately followed by various measures stifling the economy. I want to know: What is the specific timetable and action plan for the implementation of the Youth Guarantee Programme in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We continue with the question of Mr Borut Ambrožić, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, ministerial team and other colleagues and colleagues! After counting the ballots, he became the new President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, former chief nuclear negotiator Hassan Rohani, among the six candidates who fought days ago for the successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. During the pre- and during the electoral fight, Rohani advocated a more straightforward foreign policy compared to his predecessor and announced that he wanted to reach an agreement with Western countries on Iran's controversial nuclear programme and to extract Iran from international isolation and sanctions. In view of the political change we have seen in the past days and the broad economic cooperation framework between the two countries, according to some data, this amounted to 70 million in the previous year, and the fact that the argument that the closure of the Slovenian Embassy in Iran did not affect good economic relations between the countries is that I ask the foreign minister: Does the Republic of Slovenia consider re-establishing a diplomatic representation in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular in view of the trend of increasing economic activity among countries, even though the Islamic Republic of Iran opened its Embassy in Ljubljana two years ago, and consequently we can say that Slovenia closed down in their territory a few months ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u288	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u289	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you for the question. It is true that we are glad that someone who is more reconciled to the nuclear programme has won these elections, at least that's what he has announced. We know the problems we have because of this nuclear programme, because it is not entirely clear whether it is civil or military. The data show that this is a military nuclear programme, and I must say that we welcome the election of new President Rohani. However, I must say that we have closed the Embassy in Tehran in the framework of the austerity measures in 2012 and 2013. That's when we closed down seven diplomatic consulates. It is true that these savings are very small if we compare the entire state budget. The estimate is that, at the annual level, we are saving around EUR 2 million by closing 7 DKP, which is 9 billion higher than the national budget, does not mean that we can consolidate public finances or balance revenue and expenditure in the state budget. I must say that I myself wish to continue to develop good relations, political and economic relations with Iran. It is true, however, that this year too, the balance of the budget cuts off quite a piece of funds from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Although these negotiations with the Ministry of Finance and within the Government have not yet been fully concluded, I can say that what was envisaged would practically mean that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would no longer be able to perform its basic functions, as this would mean a reduction of almost 23%. However, this ministry, such as foreign affairs, would not hold back because the main means are personal incomes, material costs, rents for diplomatic and consular representations, because we do not have enough of our own facilities, so that would mean an additional blow. I am counting on such a cut not to occur in these negotiations for the rebalancing. Personally, I also always say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has as much power as he has diplomatic-consular representations in the world. You also know that one of my priorities is economic diplomacy and that we will push diplomatic and consular representations where we see good opportunities for developing economic cooperation. However, I must say that we will do this within the framework of the reorganisation of the diplomatic network and also within the framework of the legacy, it is said, what we will get from the former country, because there will also be some residences, some buildings, buildings, and then we will redefine where to put diplomatic and consular representations. I must say that we are seriously considering having one diplomatic-consular representation in the Gulf, one in Central Asia, within this reorganisation. I just came back from Kazakhstan last week with a strong economic delegation, there were 30 directors. I must say that there has been a great deal of opportunity to strengthen economic cooperation. There is a lot of economic cooperation with Iran, as you have rightly determined. We want to be able to re-establish a diplomatic-consular representation there, but all of this will also depend on budgetary resources. True, this final election is a positive signal for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Tomaž Lisec will now raise the question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u291	Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! At the end of September 2012, the former Minister, your predecessor and now Member of Parliament Zvona Černač, issued a public call for energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. The project was worth €52 million, and funds were devoted to the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities, namely for energy-efficient rehabilitation projects of existing buildings. These included primary schools, kindergartens, health homes and other buildings owned by local communities. Moreover, Minister Černač then decided with his colleagues to allow local communities the maximum possible co-financing rate, which is 100 % of the eligible costs. It is therefore understandable, of course, that in the first period the response of the municipalities was great, we can probably agree that it was even exceptional, as 186 projects were reported in 125 municipalities and the total value of all the projects reported was over EUR 108 million. On this first call, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space jointly approved 109 projects. Therefore, on the basis of the fact that the amount of the first invitation to tender was higher than the amount of the funds envisaged, the Minister of Montenegro then published an additional or so-called second tender in early March 2013, where an additional EUR 7.5 million was available, providing that some 130 to 150 projects would be approved. Then there was a change of government. After the first May holidays, the deadline for the second public invitation to tender expired, but there is nothing known about this in view of your ministry's website or the review of media publications. So, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions in this area: How many decisions would be made or how many contracts are signed under this second invitation to tender? How many applications have been received, notably this financial aspect of the tender, the total value of the applications received and the value of the projects selected? Then I wonder: Is there any other invitation to tender? Because there are initiatives to intensify matters in this area, not to hold them back or even to think about hiding them. Even initiatives on energy rehabilitation of firehouses are emerging: Would you like to say another sentence about this? I must say that I am afraid that certain projects will be rejected and that this will leave some unused money that some think could go to the rescue of larger buildings, especially in Ljubljana or in other major cities that are favoured by the government. That is why I am interested in some concrete answers in the first question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u293	Dear President, honourable Member, honourable Members! The field of energy recovery or energy efficiency is an area which, in fact, will be given special attention in both Slovenia and Europe. I am also actually monitoring what is happening in Europe in this area, and I must say that the trends and orientations that we have in our ministry are being monitored or perhaps even in the future, in some way, we will also be taking the initiative within the European Union. The area that I think is extremely important, especially because of the numbers, so studies showing the savings that can be saved in this area, are preventable, so I will also support this area very much in the future. In addition to the existing state of affairs, I would like to see that, in addition to the passive rehabilitation that is under way, there is still a little more emphasis in the future on active energy efficiency, which means that in the future we would in some way encourage the combination of active and passive energy efficiency of buildings. In this area I also see a very nice opportunity, a great opportunity for Slovenian companies, especially in the field of active energy efficiency, to help Slovenian companies develop and implement technologies in the domestic field, based on accumulated knowledge, pilot projects and experience on the domestic market, and to enable Slovenian companies to sell and penetrate European markets, especially with high value added technologies. The current state of affairs regarding the domestic energy efficiency situation: the first call, mentioned at EUR 50 million, has been successfully completed. According to my information, 108 contracts were signed, not 109. However, drawback is foreseen in 2013 – 30 million euros, in 2014 – 20 million euros and another million euros in 2015. In this way this call will be successfully completed and the funds will be successfully drawn up. As for the additional invitation to tender — primary schools, kindergartens, health homes and libraries — we also have currently received applications of 220, the applications are being assessed. It is true that the value of EUR 57.5 million has been signed, and immediately after the evaluation of the applications has been completed, we will proceed to the signing of the contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Once again, I give my word to Mr. Lisco.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u295	Thank you, Minister, for a more general answer. I must say that the government, which has been shown to be saving and not investing, has given the local communities 100 million euros for the energy rehabilitation of buildings, so this is the local self-government that this government wants to gradually degrade or even destroy – but let's leave it. You said two hundred and twenty incoming reports, but nothing about the financial aspect: What is the total value of the deposits received? I'm also interested in the timeline: When can we expect congregations to have the opportunity, of course, to sign a contract? In view of the fact that we also have to comply with European strategic guidelines on greater energy efficiency, I am interested in: Is there any other invitation to tender? Maybe to conclude: What is your opinion on the energy rehabilitation of firehouses, which we know we have many in Slovenia? Minister, I hope you are aware that delays in the project – since probably kindergartens and primary schools cannot be remedied during the school year – are damaging to both local communities and municipalities. As you probably know, if both projects had been implemented, they would have saved at the annual level, it is estimated, around seven to eight million euros. In fact, this also reduces the construction sector indirectly. In the previous year, when there was a different coalition relationship: the opposition, there was a lot of debate about it, and now nothing about it. That is how I want you, Minister, to instill the situation in this area, thus also giving a task to the domestic construction sector to re-energize. I would like to know, given that this procedure is being delayed: Does this also have something to do with the fact that this government wants to abolish individual congregations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u297	Thanks for the extra questions. Given that we are talking about primary schools and kindergartens, especially primary schools and kindergartens, I hope that you understand that this government is in the interest of being supported by these funds and that it is possible for our schools and kindergartens, that this energy rehabilitation is also carried out. As far as the delays are concerned, I must say that the delay was due to errors or additional positives to supplement the offers that occurred in March of this year, not during my term of office, but almost a month and a half earlier. In accordance with all the legal bases, we have taken the invitation to tender further. The interest was that our schools, primary schools, kindergartens get new facades and that these funds are being used. In line with the timetable and the assessment of applications, we hope that we will be able to successfully implement the contracts before the end of the school, which means that in the summer we can start work and we will allow this to happen to schools and kindergartens. The estimated value at present, which is, of course, evaluated and we will be able to give an exact number when the assessment of applications is completed, is somewhere between €47 million and €50 million. These are the funds we are counting on to be distributed by closing this call. As far as the firehouses are concerned, I must say that we have not thought about this at this time, but it is important that in the new financial perspective we pay a great deal of attention to energy efficiency and programmes that will be current, which will be good, will receive support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Fox, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u299	Madam Vice President! I actually got some very general answers. Above all, as far as timing and financial structures are concerned, I do not think the answers are satisfactory. Vice-President, if you allow, I will not make a proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting, but, Madam Minister, if, until the next meeting, through your statements in the media or through your website, we do not get concrete answers, as with this project, I will again ask you at the July meeting the same question, where I expect more concrete answers to these questions today. If I do not get enough concrete answers at the July session, however, I hope that you are aware that you are a minister and that you have a responsible responsibility to the local communities, and that by then we will not get a smart answer, Minister-respected, I hope that you will consider your role as Minister or together with your colleagues to find the right answers that matters in this area do not stand or you will make order in the ministry if you think that someone, besides you, is responsible for the fact that things are not going as they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. This was not a procedural proposal. We continue with the questions: Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mags a question. To Diane jedan, who apologized.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u301	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague! At my previous meeting, I asked Mr Stepišnik a question about the drawdown of cohesion funds, because I am particularly concerned about the implementation of cohesion projects in the field of environmental protection. Based on his answer and the list he gave me, my concern is even greater than it was before. Indeed, the Ministry has set itself some deadlines for those projects to be implemented in this financial perspective, which will have ready tender documents by the end of February and selected operators by 30 June. However, the Minister replied to me that by the end of April only half of the tender documents had been received and by the end of May only 60% of the projects envisaged as reserve co-financing projects. In addition, he gave me only projects in the area of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters, not others, but 380 million euros for the circus. However, since the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is an intermediate body and is involved in the preparation of projects, I ask Minister Židan: What cohesion projects in the field of water supply, waste water treatment and waste management will be implemented and co-financed from this financial perspective? Since the deadline of 30 June is just ahead of us and mainly because municipalities, large municipalities, in Slovenia have invested enormously in the preparation of projects, the purchase of land, the acquisition of construction permits, and now probably many of these projects will remain in the halls forever and will not be implemented and it is a great damage. In addition, for at least two years, municipalities have planned funds in the municipal budget that will not be spent, and if they knew, they could spend them for another purpose. In addition, many of these projects, as I know them, are too big, too expensive, and there will be a lot of resources, including European ones, that go to waste. Of course, expensive projects will then require payment of depreciation by users, it is said, by citizens. I think it's pretty irresponsible here. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer me at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Tink Lah. We have now concluded with the first round of questions from Members and Members and are moving on to the second round of issues. We'll start with a mag. Majdo Potrat, who will question the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Andrei Kopač Dark, who apologized.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u303	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The absent Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, I am asking a question to which I expect an oral answer at the next meeting. The question is: When does the Republic of Slovenia intend to ratify the Council of Europe Convention 210 on the Prevention of Violence and the Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, signed on 8 September 2011? Slovenia can boast of relatively good involvement in all European activities related to the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence. But now it seems like it's stopped all of a sudden. After Slovenia's accession to the European Union, we actively participated in the Council of Europe movement of Parliaments, united in the fight against violence against women, and we have also adopted a declaration in this regard. Then we passed a special law on the prevention of domestic violence, we also wrote in the rejected family code the prohibition of physical punishment of children, we had a number of resounding actions that opposed domestic violence and violence against women by philosophy, if women in the family were to protect themselves first, they would protect children. I must say that the network of safe houses and maternity homes is also densely populated in Slovenia. However, it is not the solution to place new houses where tortured women and children will find themselves, but we must establish a zero level of tolerance in the country to any form of violence. So I think it's very important to figure out where it's stuck. I understand that we have rejected the family code and the ban on physical punishment of children, but I do not understand that we cannot ratify a convention that speaks of something that we have written in politics and strategy. And we signed it. Meanwhile, since the first time the question was raised, it was said that another country had to ratify it, while some countries had already ratified the Convention. For example, neighbouring Croatia. That's why I want to know: Where are the reasons? It can also be translated because what I said myself is an unofficial translation, because we cannot talk about prevention and the fight against violence, but the connection is different. In any case, it's very important content and I expect [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will raise the question to the Ministers for Infrastructure and Space to Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague and colleague! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the distinguished Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel! In April 2013, an update of the business plan was adopted for the period 2013 to 2017 by Aerodrome Ljubljana, a shareholder company in which the company’s strategic objectives for the period until 2017 were defined, namely an increase in the number of passengers to 1.5 million, an increase in the number of movements of aircraft to 36 thousand, an increase in the weight of the stock supplied to 18,8 thousand tonnes and investment in facilities and equipment to a total value of EUR 114,4 million. Due to the government’s irresponsibility, this is my opinion, a vote on the new passenger terminal was withdrawn at the 17th meeting of the Aerodrome Ljubljana Shareholders’ Assembly on 6 June 2013. A new passenger terminal of 32 thousand square metres will be built west of the existing one and will have a capacity of 1 thousand 800 passengers per hour, together with an existing terminal will have eight airways to enter the aircraft. In the new terminal there will be 32 windows to register passengers per flight, of which 8 will be self-serviced. In the long run, there are around a thousand new jobs; the total investment value of the terminal is EUR 57 million. Aerodrome Ljubljana, a shareholder company, has made great efforts and managed to obtain €14.4 million of EU grants. The company has close to EUR 40 million of its own resources. In 2013, it had 7.1% growth; in the first quarter, profit tripled. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How will the government decide to build a new terminal at Ljubljana Airport? In the absence of a new terminal, I firmly believe that the development of the airport is over because the existing terminal was built some 40 years ago. Time's running out. In those days a meeting of shareholders should be convened to decide on the construction of the terminal. If there is no decision before the end of July, the project will fail. This will be the beginning of the end of Ljubljana Airport. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your exact answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u307	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr Horvath, thank you for the question. Regrettably, the Securities Market Agency has seized the voting rights of the State so that the State in Aerodrome Ljubljana, d.d., has no voting rights and thus does not affect the development of the airport itself. However, I certainly believe that the Supervisory Board, which oversees this society, is aware of the social development programme. I personally have no doubt that this investment plan is properly designed and represents real numbers and airport development. I certainly wish not only for the airport, but also for the existing infrastructure and activities supported by the airport – from tourism forward, from the point of traffic forward – that this activity develops and I believe that the Supervisory Council will professionally, professionally play its role and give it appropriate consent or not to the management of Aerodrome Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Horvath, please choose an extra one.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, you, as the competent minister of this Slovenian government, have somehow supported the construction of terminal 2 at the Ljubljana Aerodrome. In fact, my question was only a matter of ownership. The Republic of Slovenia owns a good 50%, When a good 7%, the Court almost 7%, the natural persons of good 18% remained legal persons of good 16%. We are familiar with the situation, I speak for the New Slovenia Group and the New Slovenia leadership, on Monday's field visit, which, as you know, we are doing well, confirmed, this was already 11th in this mandate. In fact, we have seen that the terrible problem is, if 500 tourists arrive, suddenly to the airport. This airport can't manipulate all their luggage, it's simply a space squeeze. As it is said, this airport was actually built 40 years ago, referring to purely other needs or capacities. However, I have received further encouragement for this question – as you know – in recent days we have been intensively conducting so-called hearings of candidates for ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia in the countries and all in fact speak of the exceptional importance of Luke Koper and of the exceptional importance of the Ljubljana Aerodrome. Everyone is saying that in countries where they will be accredited, they will work for greater tourist connections and so on. But look, if two jumbo jets come from China and two jumbo jets from India at the same time, then this airport is jammed. Let me tell the Slovenian public, and you know for sure that Ljubljana Airport can also accept the largest aircraft, it accepts as far as the runway is concerned, but it cannot provide them, because they simply do not have such high scales. There's a problem. So please [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u311	Thank you for further clarifications, questions. It is true that the State is actually the majority owner of the company and would not like to comment on the Agency's decision. This decision is a fact and the state does not have voting rights. The information and the state of the investment itself, I am aware of this, is actually positive information itself in most cases, so the financial structure is supposed to be closed, and European funds are also present. Here I fully trust the Supervisory Board, and if the Supervisory Board considers that this investment is good for society, I have no reservations about this investment being made. What needs to be taken into account in this case is that the company itself is intended for privatisation and, in this case, it is also necessary to look at the aspects of what, in the case of privatisation, the way in which European funds are being drawn up. But in principle, given the known facts, as Minister, I have absolutely no reservations, and I absolutely trust the Supervisory Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u312	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be raised by Mr Borut Ambrožič, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. To dean jedan, but he's excused.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u313	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the Minister's apology, I raise a question to which I would also like an oral answer at the next meeting, in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Rules. The new proposal included shrimp, partridge, plum, crayfish, raccoon, locust, fox, cormorant and grizzard. According to many naturalists and environmentalists, such proposals are in conflict with the Nature Conservation Act and with the so-called Birds Directive and for no environmental reason whatsoever. Birds as an animal in most cases do no economic damage, with some rare exceptions. Nor do their populations need to be artificially managed, as do hunters in other populations. Important are also the provisions on the protection of animals that clearly determine when an animal can be killed, since we have not yet been so far back in the National Assembly with pride and have also adopted changes that have been in favour of animal protection. I therefore ask the Minister or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment the question: What is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment with regard to the proposed expansion of the list of new species of birds with eight protected species of birds, such as goat, partridge, sloka, kreheljc, ruševec, lisco, cormorant and grivar, of which four are also critically endangered?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. Mr Ivan Grill will raise the question to the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u315	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister and all those who are still present! Patients who suffer from cancer should receive as soon as possible the care provided by our healthcare system. In view of the fact that we have been able to see that patients who have suffered from this serious disease are waiting for radiation for a very long time. Indeed, according to the rules of the profession, this should be as soon as possible, and we have a waiting period of up to 50 days, which is also unacceptable in the opinion of the profession and thus significantly reduces the possibility of successful treatment. Also, the proportion of patients who are irradiated in Slovenia is relatively low, some 22 to 23%, which is also a low percentage according to the rules or recommendations of the profession, they recommend that this be at least 50% to 60%. In view of these findings, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Are you familiar with these parameters yourself? How do you think this situation in Slovenia could be improved as soon as possible? How would these waiting periods be reduced and those patients who need to be treated as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u317	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Present! With this information on the extension of waiting periods, we have obtained data from the Oncology Institute, you know that this is the only radiotherapy centre in Slovenia at the moment, and they have admitted that this data, especially about April, has surprised them. Therefore, it was also well reviewed why this happened, where the reasons and reasons for such a situation in the field of radiation of these cancer patients were significantly more favourable for the two months before, even for 2012, data were much more favourable. Their view is that there are some marked seasonal fluctuations in the number of these patients who do not appear evenly during the year, on the other hand, that some radiation methods appear that are more difficult, especially longer. This may also affect the extension of waiting periods. You mentioned waiting periods around the '50s. In fact, this is happening on two of the eight radiation devices. The Oncology Institute ensures that, of course, the situation will gradually calm down during this period. Of course, they prefer emergency radiation and radiation to children. Above all, this is on the basis of reducing palliative radiation, says where it is more about reducing problems than it is about treatment alone, which is often more expensive. There are several reasons: one is the frame that is available, and the other is the apparatus that the Oncology Institute has. Looking at modern guidelines, these appliances are sufficient according to the number of working hours. So, eight machines work on average 13 hours a day, or you'd need 13 machines after eight hours a day. So short-term and so that patients will be logged into waiting lists on time that these waiting periods will not occur. In the long run, however, the problem is greater because additional radiotherapy options will need to be provided. One of these is the Oncological Institute with a radiotherapy centre in Maribor, where construction is carried out according to plan, where this part is also envisaged and this is one option. Otherwise, as for all other programmes, it is likely that sufficient resources will have to be provided for a period of time to replace apparatus in a timely manner and that adequate and timely replacement of experts working in this area will be required. Following their assurance, the situation is not alarming at this time, it is solvable, and in the long term it will be necessary to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate in the light of the trend of ageing, with regard to the increase in the number of these patients, so that they do not really get into a situation where they are no longer able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u319	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. See, while the opinion of the Oncology Institute is that this situation is not alarming at this time, it is only necessary to be aware that every day, which is delayed or prolonged, can be significantly less favourable for a successful treatment. So it is necessary to make sure that these times are as short as possible. And I'd be asking you here if you could put it out for me: From where do these differences on average in other countries and in Slovenia, that only 22.8% of people who suffer from cancer, irradiated, are expected to be 50 to 60 %, following the recommendations of the profession? Are those commissions or anyone who decides which patient has to go to radiation or not, as far as the decision is concerned, more rigorous? Is there a lack of financial resources, which is unacceptable, or are there other reasons? For if this is a recommendation of the profession and if this is taken into account or implemented in other comparable countries, I believe that this trend should be continued or followed in Slovenia. Thanks for that part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u320	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u321	Thank you. First of all, I would say that I trust oncology or radiotherapy experts in this case that they do not decide to reduce radiation because it would be lacking, I don't know, apparatus or anything like that, and that those who are scheduled to do so and where this treatment is appropriate to receive this treatment. There's probably no reason to hide it at this point if that's really a problem. However, they point once again to the long-term need for additional centres or additional and human resources capacities and apparatus in the light of the trend in which they work. Why it is so difficult for me to comment in one country, in another country, on why it is difficult for me to comment, given that only the profession is the one that is decisive in treatment methods, in the direction that is decided. I say, I believe that at this point they are working qualitatively and in accordance with the guidelines, but we also want to ensure this in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question. Mr Daniel Krivec will raise the question to the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u323	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, too, Minister! I see that the Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs is not present, but I will ask a question and expect an oral answer at the next meeting. I'm asking the Minister the following questions. The proposal for a concept to reduce the number of municipalities is announced on its part in the public. Both the Community of Congregations and the Association of Congregations responded to that forecast. The above-mentioned concept has also been met by an expert who points to constitutional restrictions. In this regard, I therefore ask the Minister: On what basis will you prepare a proposal for a concept to reduce the number of municipalities? What's this concept going to be? When can citizens and citizens expect a concept to reduce the number of municipalities? Will such a proposal also take into account the will of citizens and citizens in municipalities and local communities? In the debate, of course, I also wanted to raise an additional question to the Minister: How does duality in Slovenian local self-government, where we still have duality, say, administrative units and municipalities? What will be his attitude in this regard? In the previous replies and in the materials available, he also cited financial frameworks as a reason for reducing the number of municipalities and in this context the reason for the increase in the number of employees in municipal administrations. We can say that part of the number of employees in local self-government has also increased in the account of redeployments by administrative units. I also want to know: What is the minister's position on the starting point that 5,000 inhabitants are some basic limit value? We know that even in its initial establishment, as of 1994, 1995, the municipalities did not meet the requirements of 5,000 people. At that time, the profession also set up congregations that did not reach that number during the referendum. I think there is also an original sin, which later produced a large number of congregations. I would also like to know the answer to this question: How will this strategy be prepared? The previous responses said that the concept and solutions would be consistent with the expertise and also within the coalition. I also want to know: How will the remaining profession be taken into account in this part? How will the opposition take account of this proposal to eliminate the number of municipalities? Thank you, Minister, for joining us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u325	Thank you very much. I have already answered twice today questions about the reduction in the number of municipalities, so I have already said those main things, honourable Member. On your more precise and direct questions, I can say that we intend to prepare this concept – not in the form of a marriage proposal, of course, but only as a concept of an anticipated reduction in the number of municipalities – within two to three weeks. The Ministry of the Interior has already done its part here, we are still waiting for the contribution of the Ministry of Finance, which is currently working more intensively on the budget. Once we have this ready, political coordination will begin. We've been out in the hallway before, discussing these questions in the lobby a little bit. You have warned me that there are situations where the number of inhabitants cannot be absolute criteria, especially in the case of, say, Sočja, where there are municipalities with a very large area, a large territory and a small number of inhabitants. These things need to be opened up in an expert and political debate and tried to find the right solutions. In particular, I would like the criteria for the establishment of congregations or for the existence of congregations to be as objective as possible so that what has been happening to us since 1994 has been reduced to political lobbying and to who is stronger, who has more voice and power in the National Assembly; they have reached their congregation and others have not. This has also led to a number of inequalities; those who have thus come through have their own congregation – especially if they have had their own mayor in Parliament as a Member – then better opportunities for development than many other places that have not had this privilege. This shouldn't be happening to us! If we are able to find some criteria, others such as the number of people, for the congregation to stand or for a new one to arise, then I have no problem. For the moment, I propose that this concept be waited for and then the discussion begins; both political and professional.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u327	Thank you, Minister for your answers. Most of the time, I also agree with his starting points, but I am interested in his view of the duality that we still have in the local self-government with regard to administrative units and municipalities, which is also my reason that in the past we have not come up with better solutions and probably not the establishment of provinces, because the subject of what is with administrative units has also opened up. I want to know: How does the minister see this problem in the future? However, I agree with what has been pointed out that criteria really need to be weighed and decided on the basis of both good and bad experiences that we have in the past with the implementation of local self-government and that the absolute criteria should not only be the number of people, but also the other conditions that an expert group must prepare in the future. But I'm very interested in: What is his vision of this duality that does not exist in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u329	Thank you. Well, it is an old question whether we will have a single or double legal system in Slovenia, or whether the country will have its own management line through administrative units, regional units, outposts and so on. There are different models in Europe. Indeed, in most of the countries of the administration of local communities, or municipalities, or the province, they also perform state tasks at the same time, but this is not the case everywhere. In neighbouring Croatia, you will see that the municipalities there have local self-government units, and in each county the county office of the state administration, which performs state administration tasks. I am in favour of a two-tier concept, especially because I think that state tasks, government tasks, inspections, police, geodetic services, the issuance of various permits, personal documents, registers and so on must be carried out in a uniform and standardised manner throughout the country and there can be no difference between the congregation and the congregation. Moreover, experience shows that this system works. In the eyes of the population, administrative units are a relatively solid part of the public administration system, especially there after 2000 or especially after 2005, when it started working on quality, in approaching user services, in simplifying procedures and people are mostly satisfied with these services. In addition, administrative units have reduced the number of employees by one sixth, by more than one sixth, or by a good sixth since we started this project since 2005. Of the 3,000 employees they had at the time, there are now some 2,000,500 employees. This means that, under all the criteria, this system worked relatively well; with the unaltered or not substantial reduction of tasks, they reduced the number of employees, they acted qualitatively, the criteria were user satisfaction, they introduced quality standards, ISO, KEF and so on, simplifying procedures, so that I see no need here to change a system that is relatively good. However, if these tasks were to be passed on to the congregations, I do not imagine at all, especially to this small congregation today, 212 congregations. That would be practically impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we are moving on to the final question, namely, Mr Dragutin Mate will raise the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think the minister's here somewhere in the National Assembly, so he'll be joining us soon. I would like to ask the distinguished Minister for Foreign Affairs a few brief questions. My concern is focused on Slovenian diplomacy. Indeed, in this particularly sensitive area, where it is extremely important that the Slovenian State, through its diplomatic and consular offices, represents both the country and the interests of citizens and businesses, I am interested in: What are the plans of both the Ministry and the Government in view of the fate of our diplomatic-consular network? As we know, we have built this network in the past, we have also reduced it slightly, and we have increased it again. I want to know: What's the situation today? Does the Government plan to reduce or increase diplomatic and consular representations? Is there anything that can be said today, in which direction? In one of the previous answers, the minister also said something, so I could hear. I am also interested in: What is the current perfection of both the Slovenian Ministry in terms of systemisation and consular and diplomatic representation abroad? I'm also interested in: How many heads of diplomatic and consular representations are due this year, and in the next two years, is it said by the end of the Government's term of office? Given the age structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am interested in: How many top-ranking diplomats have the conditions for retirement? If, of course, the Ministry has the following information: How many of these people have any desire or purpose to retire in this year or next year? In short, I'd like a brief review: What's the staffing structure at the Ministry? What changes are expected and foreseen in this year and the next two years in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u332	Thank you, Mr. Mate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Member, for your question. With regard to the first question, you have already found that I have already partially answered the previous answer, so I would not repeat myself. I would like to say once again that we are thinking that within the reorganisation of the diplomatic-consular network some diplomatic-consular representations might be set up differently than they were set at this moment, because the strategic interests of Slovenian foreign policy have changed over these 20 years. Since the beginning of 90 years, the main objective has been to become a member of the European Union, the OECD, and therefore most of the DKPs have been set within the European Union or on the European continent. Now, in this different situation, when we have an economic crisis, and because economic diplomacy is a priority, we are looking for points that would be interesting for the Slovenian economy. But we will discuss this more when we prepare a new strategy for Slovenian foreign policy and I can already point out that at the first meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, we will address the starting points and we will somehow identify where to focus our new Slovenian foreign policy. With regard to your question, what is the current perfection in terms of systemisation and how many heads of diplomatic and consular representations are due in this year and in the next two years, I can answer this question. At the moment, we have five jobs available to guides. That says we don't have a general consul or an ambassador there. It is the Embassy of Berlin, Brussels, Kiev, Ottawa and the Permanent Representation of the United Nations in New York. As you know, some of these will be filled out because we had a call for proposals and the Foreign Policy Committee gave a positive opinion. In 2013, the mandate will be extended to 15 heads of diplomatic and consular missions, namely: Bern, Bratislava, Budapest, The Hague, Copenhagen, Vienna, Moscow, New Delhi, Pristina, Sarajevo, Washington and the Permanent Representation to the OECD in Paris, the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the United Nations in Geneva and the General Consulate of the Republic of Slovenia in Munich. In so doing, let me say that the head of the Consulate General of the Republic of Slovenia in Trieste will terminate the working relationship by law 31. Seven. 2013, and for legal reasons. However, given the age structure, you are interested in how many diplomats qualify for retirement. Eight diplomats will retire in 2013. After the ZPIZ-2, 10 more diplomats meet this retirement requirement, but both conditions are not met. All of them are eligible for age, but they do not have a working-year condition. This is because these ten diplomats do not recognize the time when they served in the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs in the former country. That is why they do not retire because the pension will also be substantially lower. But we can't force them, given that they only meet one condition. In 2014, additional nine diplomats will be eligible for retirement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u335	Thank you very much, Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. Today I have asked this question about how these concerns will be organised, in fact because many times because of the service obligations you will not be able to come to the PSC, otherwise we could discuss these matters there. So much for viewers who may still be watching us, but usually there are not so many questions for you as there are today. So much for the intro. Otherwise, one of my concerns is precisely one of the points that you mentioned in part in your response. We have a consul-general in Trieste who is doing his job well, Dr. Rupla, so that everyone will know what and who we are talking about, who has been both an external minister several times in our country and an ambassador who has done very responsible jobs. I think that, and according to the information that can also be read from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this work was well done, well done. Of course, different people have different views about him, but I see him primarily as my former colleague in the government, as someone who professionally and professionally carries out this matter, and not least is a professor in this field. I was very interested in why or whether Mr Rupel would be called off early, of course, because his mandate was not yet due to expire. You said he met two conditions for retirement. However, I am extremely interested in the fact that you mentioned that ten other diplomats meet the same conditions, but because of some interpretation probably some officials in the Ministry are not considered in the Federal Secretariat for years. That's the first I've heard of it. This is an extremely unusual practice. Very unusual because we lived in a common country — and then what? Do all people who worked in the territory of another republic or were temporarily sent from Slovenia to work in federal institutions not consider that working time? In the final phase, we also retire former officers and so on. I really want to know what your answer would be. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u337	Thanks for the extra question. In fact, it's the consul general in Trieste, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. I can confirm that he did a great job. However, as it is said, he will meet both conditions, age and working age on 31 July. This is why, after the law, his working relationship ends, although I must say that his mandate would continue to run, but the ZUJF, this is the law adopted by the previous government, provides for compulsory retirement if both conditions are met. For this reason, his marriage will end. This is not a special treatment or a special relationship with Dr. Dimitri Rupl, but it is simply a simple fact that it meets both retirement reasons. As far as these 10 diplomats are concerned, the problem is that, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this good should be recognised, because we then adopted an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social security when the relevant constitutional amendment was adopted, which stipulated that no one should get any worse, but unfortunately, then an agreement was adopted between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social insurance, and now the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance interprets this provision differently or asks the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to give us appropriate guidance. In this regard, I can say that I have already spoken to the Minister of Labour to issue such an appropriate instruction and that these 10 diplomats would also be retired in such a way that they would also be recognised by the time that they were processed in Belgrade or in the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs of the former State. However, it is necessary to know that these people were sent to the Federal Secretariat by Slovenia, because even then they were subject to quotas and this was the assignment of the then Socialist Republic of Slovenia to Belgrade and it is unfair that they are not recognised for this reason and that this period is not recognised. This would also make it very easy for us, given the budgetary resources that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, which are significantly reduced and would make it easier for us to implement the 2013 and 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mate, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u339	I apologize, Mr Minister, your answers were correct, they were substantively correct, but it seems to me that it is good to have a wider discussion in the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure on this. Above all, these problems that you mentioned at the end. I want to help you with that, so I'm asking this question. Indeed, the criteria must apply to all the same. In such sensitive cases as this — and we both have to admit that it is — one cannot get rid of the good will of feeling that different people are being treated in a different way. This can't be happening in our country, and I'm sure we both agree here. That is why I believe that it is also necessary to encourage one such debate – which can be very short, as far as I am concerned – in order to achieve that both the ZPIZ and the Ministry of Labour will give those instructions, those guidelines that are necessary. In fact, as a Member, even as someone who has worked for many years in the state administration, various duties, it is totally incomprehensible that a body or the ZPIZ or the Ministry of Labour takes the right to interpret some of the constitutional rights guaranteed by citizens in Slovenia. When a reason is found that ten high-level diplomats are all in the rank of ambassador, so I think that, or at least 99% are virtually everyone, they can stay in jobs and serve one or more mandates in the federal ministry on various duties abroad, you get a slightly uncomfortable feeling. I don't think that's good. We have a lot of problems in the country, a lot of economic problems, a lot of other problems, so I think we need to make this pressure, even public. One thing is that only officials between ministries communicate, and the other is when that kind of political pressure comes, if you want. There's nothing personal here against any of these tens. Well, I accept your arguments that you've given me today, but I think that the criteria must be the same. Therefore, it would be good for the Ministry to ensure, if this debate is not already voted out, that such a bad feeling or somehow a bad taste in an individual or in individuals in that country is eliminated and that we take some steps to make it work more normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-17-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u340	Thank you, Mr. Mate. This was also the last question today. I thank all ministers for their answers. But to all of us who have endured, I want a pleasant evening to go on.
