ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the resumed 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Polonca Komar, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mag. Katarina Hočevar and Mr Roberto Battelli from 5 p.m. I welcome all those present once again. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the draft law on amendments to the law on legal protection in public procurement procedures under the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The aim of the bill is to increase the effectiveness of legal protection against infringements in procurement procedures and to increase the cost-effectiveness of the award of public contracts. Public procurement legislation should allow for the delivery and implementation of public procurement to be swift and effective, as public procurement provides the goods, services and construction necessary for the performance of public sector tasks. The main solutions to the bill can be summarized into the next three points. First time. In order to prevent unnecessary submission of audit requests against irregularities that do not affect the classification of tenders or the award of public contracts, it is possible to enforce legal protection only against material irregularities. The aim of legal protection is not to ensure that the contracting authority corrects any possible errors in the procurement process, but rather that the tenderers' possibilities for obtaining a public contract are not reduced to the account of the incorrect conduct of the contracting authority which has a significant impact on the award of the contract. Another time. Priority shall be given to the examination of audit requests against infringements of the award of public contracts co-financed by European funds. These procurements are usually large and complex projects. However, due to the agreed dynamics of co-financing, it is crucial that procurement procedures and possible legal remedies are under way as quickly as possible. And the third time. Pre-audit and audit fees shall be governed more clearly and proportionately by the type and subject matter of the procedure. In doing so, audit applications relating to tender documents shall be subject to a fixed fee, separate from goods, services and construction, and separately from national and European procurement procedures. However, for complaints against public procurement decisions, a fee of 2 % of the most favourable tender shall be paid. Taking into account the objectives and objectives of the proposed law and the key solutions I have presented, we propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you. The law has also treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and a very nice greeting for everyone. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 62nd emergency meeting. Seven. In 2013 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption as a matter of urgency. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 59th session. Seven. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. In addition to the text of the draft law and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the members of the Committee also received the opinion of the State Council, the Commission for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The introductory explanation was given by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, who stressed that the aim of the bill is to ensure effective legal protection against infringements in procurement proceedings, in order to increase the effectiveness of public procurement and to ensure that the tenderers are not deprived of their opportunities to obtain a public contract at the expense of the unlawful conduct of the contracting authority. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and drew up comments on Articles 2, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service provided an additional explanation of the written opinion and summarized the comments to each article. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the National Council of the Commission on Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which, in principle, supports any amendment to the law which introduces simplifications in the field of public procurement and contributes to the greater effectiveness of the public procurement system and advocates a comprehensive recast of the area of public procurement to address the weaknesses that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law so far. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the proposal were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 1, 6, 8 and 9. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also considered and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups to Articles 1, 6 and 8. In addition, on the basis of the debate held, the Committee adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the legislative proposal, which essentially follows the greater objectivity of proving the applicant's knowledge. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We suggest that the National Assembly accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for presenting the Committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The distinguished representative of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new law brings changes that simplify procedures and increase the efficiency of the public procurement system. Prioritising audit requests to the audit committee when it comes to public procurement for European Union funds is undoubtedly a step in this direction. Articles 1 and 2 shall also introduce an amendment, in accordance with the European Directive, requiring that the tenderer, if any, give prior warning of the possible irregularity of the contracting authority through the public procurement portal, if any. This also solves cases where there is confusion on the part of the contracting authority, but so far the only way to remedy these errors has been through the cancellation of the invitation to tender and the recommitment, which is long-lasting and, above all, ineffective. In short, it could be said that the main purpose of the novel is to stop speculation, which is mainly used by some malicious tenderers to file complaints. A number of international institutions also warn us, as the practice itself shows, that we have a complex and complicated public procurement system in Slovenia. Requests for review, i.e. complaints, may be filed against all actions, although they are irrelevant or completely irrelevant to the actual assembly of the tenderer, even though, most importantly, the complaint seeks to eliminate the cheapest bidder because of what insignificance, and thus we are only exasperating the public sector. Public procurement is another area where the economic crisis has shown weaknesses. As a result of the reduction in resources, competition has increased and the number of complaints and audits in public procurement. These are often also unjustifiable and more of an expression of the hardship of an unchosen tenderer than a mistake in the procurement process itself. In the field of public procurement, we have a perversion. We want to anticipate all hypothetical situations, but we often forget about a healthy farm. Calls where cars are bought with exactly one centimeter of precise measures, because they do not hope to write the model they have chosen, may be normal, but it is contradicted by the basic logic of public procurement. This is in a fair and competitive fight to reach the most favourable offer for the consumer of public funds. However, procedures to achieve this objective must be swift, efficient, transparent and fair. The law thus does not introduce any additional legal qualifications that would further restrict the tenderers, thereby reviving the range of potential tenderers, but allows them to search through practice for what is essential and what is not. We could say that the change in law introduces more common sense in the investment and decision making of complaints. We believe that the novelty will help to speed up the conclusion of the various calls for proposals mainly for European funding and will allow for the early withdrawal of those, which is very important for a number of companies in these times of crisis. The novel is such an important element in consolidating public finances, and we will therefore support it in the National Gazette. With this change, we are only correcting the public procurement system. In the Civil Gazette, however, we believe that more can be done in this area. A comprehensive reform could help to reduce the costs of material and public sector services even more noticeably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished presidents, representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance! The area of public procurement is undoubtedly one of the areas in which we do not manage to bring it into some normal framework, at least as regards the cost-effectiveness of the procedure and its effectiveness. One of the laws governing this part of the procurement procedure is the Law on Legal Protection in the Public Procurement Procedures of 2011, which replaced the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures and, inter alia, divided such legal protection into a pre-audit and audit procedure. The proposed amendment to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures is intended to improve the economy of public procurement and to ensure that the tendering opportunities are not reduced to unlawful conduct by the contracting authority. The submission of audit requests for procedural errors which do not affect the content of public procurement is hereby abolished. The proposed law also provides for priority treatment of legal protection requirements, again infringements of the award of public contracts co-financed by European funds. These procurements are for more extensive and more demanding projects of greater value, and it is therefore of paramount importance that procurement projects from public procurement and legal protection arrangements for identified possible infringements are quick and effective. The draft law also provides for a clearer method of charging the pre-audit and audit procedure, as it provides for the provision of proportionality fees, separately for goods, services and construction, and separately for types of procurement procedures. In this respect, it is worth noting that the fees increase considerably compared to the law in force. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support every step that at least partially improves the situation in the field of public procurement in our country. We note, however, that this issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner and that legislation needs to be amended in such a way that it will allow for faster and more flexible implementation of investments or the execution of public procurement and finally give priority to content ahead of form. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the proposed amendment to the law on legal protection in procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners favours any amendment to the legislation which introduces simplifications in the field of public procurement and helps to improve the effectiveness of the public procurement system. One of the typical examples of inadequate legislation in this area is public health procurement. The procurement here is quite ineffective and even results in the failure to draw on European funds due to the revisions of public procurement procedures. The unelected tenderers complain of virtually every matter in the tender and therefore they are towed for months and months or even years. The aim is to ensure effective legal protection against infringements in procurement procedures, to increase efficiency in public procurement and to ensure that the tendering opportunities are not diverted from the contracting authority's unlawful treatment. The bill also provides for priority treatment of legal protection requirements in infringements of the award of public contracts co-financed by European funds. As these procurements tend to involve higher value projects that are large and demanding, it is essential that procurement and procurement procedures are fast and efficient. The way in which the pre-audit and audit procedure is charged is also more precisely specified. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, fees shall be set separately for goods, services and construction and separately for types of procurement procedures. We also agree with the priority treatment of audit requests by the State Audit Commission when it comes to public procurement co-financed by European funds. However, we do not think that rapid and partial changes are generally the most effective. We advocate a comprehensive recast of the area of public procurement, which will address the weaknesses that have emerged in the implementation of the law so far. The aim of the procurement review procedure is certainly to ensure respect for the principles and rules of public procurement, not the protection of the individual. Let me say that the Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of the pensioners' proposal for a new law will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a nice greeting to the representatives of the government! The Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures was adopted in 2011 and has re-organized legal protection in procurement proceedings, namely in the pre-audit procedure before the contracting authority and the audit procedure before the State Audit Commission. However, in some of the biggest infringements of public procurement rules, judicial protection before a regular court is also permissible. The amendment of this law introduces a legal basis for prioritising those legal protection requirements co-financed by European funds. The aim of this is to accelerate the absorption of European funds. It also introduces some other novelty. One of them is the obligation of the investor or the other tenderer to notify the contracting authority of the infringements in the procurement procedure without delay if the contract has been published via the public procurement portal. The waiver of this obligation results in the loss of the right to legal protection. Another consequence of the waiver of such an obligation is that such a person has not shown any interest in the award of a public contract. An important novelty is also the increase in court fees in the pre-audit and audit procedures. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the law on legal protection in procurement procedures, while stressing that, irrespective of the order, all applicants must be provided with prompt and effective decision-making in the audit process, which is within the time limits prescribed by the law. In 2012, the State Audit Commission recorded a lower incidence of requirements from 2011 and, in view of the current legislative changes, a trend is expected to continue to decline in the number of applications submitted. It is also recalled that the increase in court fees in times of economic crisis and the lack of access to liquid assets may be an obstacle for some economic operators to apply for legal protection. The payment of a court fee is a condition for the State Audit Commission to take into account the legal protection requirement at all. In New Slovenia, we are also convinced that greater compliance with public procurement rules could also be achieved through more consistent implementation of the criminal provisions of the Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures. The State Audit Commission is also a criminal body. The content of the 2012 Annual Report of the State Audit Commission shows that very few criminal proceedings have been introduced and that in most cases only a warning or a low, perhaps too low, fine has been given. Such non-implementation or incorrect implementation of infringement provisions to some extent even encourages contracting authorities, in particular responsible persons, to disregard the public procurement arrangements. We therefore call on the State Audit Commission to implement more consistently the legislative provisions in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Each time the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is planned and adopted, the items indicating the level of European funds drawn up are much higher than when the final accounts of the same budget are presented to the National Assembly. And why? Why it happens every year that the planned funds are much higher than they actually are later realised. The explanation that follows the final account each year is almost the same. Large, I would say too much falls on the appeal procedures of public procurement, which are part of projects financed from European funds. So the complaints, and this every year, we listen over and over again. In view of the increase, it is up to the State Audit Commission in the last few years to give priority to legal protection requirements against infringements in the award of public contracts co-financed by European funds, where large-scale and demanding projects or contracts of higher value are usually dealt with as a matter of priority. In view of the agreed dynamics of drawing on funds to co-finance these public contracts and the related restrictions, it is crucial that these procurement procedures, possible legal protection procedures and the implementation of contracts are swift and effective. The proposal for a novelty thus establishes which infringements in the award of a public contract are considered to be substantial infringements. In June each case is dealt with on a case-by-case basis, since each procedure is linked to various factual and legal circumstances, the novel identifies those essential infringements which are certainly not to be ignored. The law also provides for a clearer way of charging a pre-audit and audit fee. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, fees shall be fixed separately for goods, services and construction and for the types of procurement procedures. In order to make legal protection against infringements in public procurement proceedings available to smaller tenderers, the law still allows the tax to be deducted from the value of the individual set of contracts in which the applicant makes the application for review manifest irregularities to the contracting authority. Such breakdown of fees for the pre-audit and audit procedure shall ensure that the principle of proportionality is implemented in determining the amount of the fee as compensation for the management of the legal protection procedure, in particular in the light of the complexity of the subject-matter and the procurement procedure or the individual stage of the procedure and the documentation of the procurement procedures. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we support all changes and efforts that will help simplify and improve the effectiveness of the entire public procurement system. It is too often heard that the public procurement system is the one that is suffocating the economy, and it has been heard too often that complaints are to blame for the loss of European funds due to complaints being lower than planned. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we will always support all those solutions that will help improve public procurement systems, and in particular we welcome the solutions presented in this novel. These are the solutions that impose penalties for unjustified complaints which offer an additional opportunity to negotiate the price with the successful tenderer and which give priority to legal protection requirements for projects co-financed by European funds. We will therefore support the proposed amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State! Slovenia has been facing the problem of European spending for many years, which is certainly not good. The use of European funds should be a red thread for the start of the Slovenian economy. We have talked many times about how to speed up the matter, and we have come to the conclusion that drawing on European funds to a large extent also limits administrative and bureaucratic obstacles. We have also faced the issue of complaints in public procurement and, as a result, all these processes have stalled and have suffered economic damage. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures to some extent ensures that public procurement and the drawing-up of European funds will now become more effective. We hope that this law will be implemented as soon as possible and that the first results of a more efficient work and the reduction of administrative barriers will also be demonstrated in real life. As a result of all of this, we are assessing in the Group's Member that it is reasonable to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u18	Respected and respected! Public procurement is important in a number of ways. Public procurement procedures must be followed by transparent and cost-effective use of public money; last but not least, public procurement is an important generator of growth and gross domestic product and the start-up of the economy. On the other hand, public procurement also plays an important role in the efficiency of drawing on European funds, which shows that, in some aspects of these procedures, we have made it more difficult to draw on European funds. On the third hand, we must not forget that these rules are also put in the interest of protection of competition, equal access for tenderers and competition, and that wide access by different potential tenderers in the implementation of the type of public procurement should also ensure the choice of the most favourable bidder, thereby ensuring transparent, cost-effective and rational use of public funds. There is a consensus in this Chamber today that there is a need to ensure greater efficiency of procedures and, on the other hand, we must not forget that in all legal solutions that raise legal protection issues, it is also important to pay attention to the fact that we do not make what citizens, taxpayers, rightly expect us to make use of every euro that they contribute to public treasury in a transparent and economic manner, in accordance with the objectives set out for it. Although we support the amendment of the Law on Legal Protection in public procurement procedures, the Social Democrats support it. We are pleased that we have been able to harmonise in the coalition an additional amendment setting out more precisely what the essential infringements of the procedure are, so that any irregularities in the procedure do not make it difficult to carry out the procurement procedure, but to define it more clearly. which are essential violations, and thus we believe that the essential comments of the Legal and Legislative Services have also been satisfied. Today, after a few years of implementation of the new Public Procurement Act, i.e. ZJN2, Slovenia's policy in the National Assembly would be expected to critically evaluate the contributions made by the new regime. The Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures has in some ways modernised these procedures as a result of the adoption of a new JN2. At that time, both the policy and the profession assessed it as an essential contribution to faster and more efficient implementation of public procurement procedures, and today perhaps it would be time to critically evaluate it, to look at where the positive changes have been, and what else needs to be changed in the system in a comprehensive way, in order to achieve the already mentioned public procurement objectives, i.e. the cost-effective use of public funds, the widest possible multiplier of the use of public funds to trigger economic activity, the accelerated absorption of European funds and the guaranteed protection of competition. Also in procurement procedures, in legal protection, their implementation should be given much more attention. The Social Democrats will support the novel. We estimate that it brings smart solutions, that these procedures will be effective and that effective legal protection will be ensured for providers, on the one hand, and for countries and local communities as contracting authorities of public services and procurement on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by moving the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? He does. I'm opening up the possibility of applying for a word. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u20	Have a nice hello again. Let me start by saying that I support this amendment. It is a matter of clarifying in this amendment what these serious violations are, which have a significant impact on the award of a public contract. I think that this path you took at the Ministry of Finance in this brief amendment of the law is the right way. It goes in this direction that the most critical points in public procurement are eliminated. From the experience I have in this area, I think we have done a great deal in the past in order to protect the tenderer who has applied for public contracts and that, at times, obviously in these unclear procedures, we have also given these tenderers the opportunity to play the very meaning of public procurement. In this novel, you are trying to remedy this precisely by determining these fundamental violations now, and that those who wish to complain in the proceedings should first announce that there is something wrong in the invitation to tender, not then that what happened mainly during the period of the conjunctura, when the builders practically specialized in how to obtain a public contract and it was the first priority, rather than how this contract was then properly executed and within the framework set out here. As far as European funds are concerned, I think it is right that such calls have an advantage, as it has already been said here in the views of the sending groups that many weeks are very important. In this persistent delay and, as I have already said, when some have specifically specialized in these complaints, a number of calls for European funds have been put at risk. Also, the fact that the financial burden of the one who wants to play this system is greater is what I think is right. That is why I support this spirit, and I think that the path that you have chosen is the right one, and that it will be necessary to slowly massage these holes of the law on public procurement and really reach the end of the law, which will ensure transparent use of public funds, so that the procedures will be such that they are concluded within reasonable time. The amendment proposed will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. I'm still giving the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since Mr Bogovic has already spoken to the majority, I do not need to say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u23	Suitable. Thank you. Anyone else want a word about Article 1 and the amendment? Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u24	The amendment to Article 1 is related to the comment of the Legislative and Legal Service. The legislative and legal service has assessed that the excessive openness of essential infringements to further interpretation in fact reduces legal certainty. In this respect, I am pleased that, in the coalition, we have succeeded in harmonising with the Ministry of Finance a more specific definition of the essential infringements. It is precisely in the case of legal protection procedures that it is necessary to be more careful to ensure that this legal protection is determined, so that the law directly states what the essential infringements are, while at the same time leaving sufficient room for manoeuvre in the dictatorship, that legal practice, which requires time, is not established overnight, makes this interpretation meaningful in view of the most life-defined cases that will be put forward in front of the State Audit Commission. Once again, let me say that these solutions need to strike a meaningful balance between ensuring as effectively as possible the interests of the State, that the use of public funds is liquid, smooth and that we can make effective use of the possibility of drawing on European funds on the one hand and, on the other hand, that we provide effective redress mechanisms for both non-selective providers and legal interests to ensure effective protection. I believe that with the solutions in this novel, we have achieved this effectively with the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you. Does anyone else wish to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1? I'm guessing there's no desire to discuss it. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law in accordance with the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. At this moment, the government's representatives, who are responsible for the finances, are abandoning us. At the moment, however, we do not have government representatives present covering the fields of education, science, sport and youth. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members, or I apologize, and before that there is a report by the Committee. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jožef Kavticnik, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings, fellow Members and fellow Members! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 29th emergency session. Seven. 2013 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 58th regular session. 6. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and has commented on certain articles. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Sport and Education, which in its opinion supported the bill. In the introduction, Minister Jernej Pikalo said that the bill follows the starting points of the 2011 White Paper and presented the main solutions it brings. These are: the introduction of compulsory first foreign language teaching in 2nd grade, the teaching of the first foreign language as an optional subject for all students in the 1st class, the possibility of voluntary participation of pupils from 4th to 6th grade in optional selection courses, that is, the second foreign language, art, computer science, sports and technology, the possibility of selecting foreign language teaching as an optional option for students in the 7, 8th and 9th classes, the increased autonomy of the school in the performance of the activity, the defined individual categories of student status, the delay in the implementation of the school in nature as part of the compulsory programme, the possibility of directing the student to the next relevant primary school. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the main part of their comments had been duly taken into account in the proposals for amendments to the Committee. The debate focused on Article 2 of the novel, which introduces optional selection items and amendments to the extended programme. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. The Committee approved the text and sent it to the National Assembly to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you for presenting the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that the knowledge of foreign languages helps us to maintain contact with the globalised world in which we live and to a large extent also helps to preserve the competitiveness of our export-oriented economy. Knowledge of foreign languages brings many other advantages, ranging from greater mobility, better quality and faster communication with one another to wider horizons and general vision. I hope to say that we are Slovenians, especially the younger generation, among the European peoples among the best in foreign languages and also among the more susceptible to learning foreign languages. In addition to our geographical location and modern communication technologies, our educational system has been decisively instrumental in promoting the learning of foreign languages since early childhood, following the example of modern European systems. This, irrespective of the continuous overplay by transferring the year of introduction of the first or second foreign language of the class in which a particular foreign language is introduced and by discussing whether the oil is introduced as a compulsory object or as optional. Let me go to the concrete content of this point of this law, which has been the subject of such or other discussions and many conflicting information for quite some time. In addition to some other editorial and minor substantive changes in foreign language learning, the proposed law brings three key changes. These changes, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, will not reduce the quality of foreign language knowledge and access to foreign languages in primary school, nor will they exacerbate the competitive advantages of Slovenian pupils over students from other countries in the European Union. As we know, the first amendment concerns compulsory first foreign language teaching in the second class, which proposes a three-year phased introduction from the school year 2014/2015 onwards. The second amendment concerns the voluntary integration of pupils between the fourth and sixth classes into the teaching of optional selection courses of other foreign language, art, computer science, sport and technology, which is to begin with the school year 2014/2015. And a third change. This was the one around which the most dust was raised in recent weeks, and this change concerns the one-year postponement of the introduction of another foreign language as an optional subject in the last triad of the primary school. As envisaged by the proposed law, this is to start with the school year 2014/2015, i.e. with a one-year delay, as originally envisaged. It should also be noted that for 159 primary schools already involved in the experimental implementation of the second foreign language as a compulsory subject, nothing changes in the next school year. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that knowledge of foreign languages is extremely important in individual participation in society, which is all the more important and necessary in a globalised world. We also know that knowledge is never too much, so the early and more intensive learning of foreign languages in the education system needs to be strengthened, which is, in fact, the whole of Europe. The proposed law does not remove any foreign language because something that has not yet been established cannot be abolished. The law of our children does not deprive us of the possibility of acquiring knowledge, but it only delays the period and manner of introduction of the first or second foreign language in primary school. Therefore, we do not intend to oppose the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. The Basic School Act is professional and problematic, such as the question of the appropriateness or appropriateness of teaching the first and second foreign languages in primary school, which age period of the child is appropriate for what and whether an individual learning course is required for the student, we leave the profession. So those who are called to this mission by their profession. For the teaching of foreign languages, the amendment takes into account the views of experts who prepared a White Paper on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia in 2011. The preparers of the White Paper carried out a survey on the needs, relevance and appropriateness of learning foreign languages in primary school during individual age periods. The surveyors were parents, teachers, and principals. The results of this survey, comparison of arrangements in other countries, opinions of experts in the pedagogical and linguistic fields and in terms of the public financial situation of the country were proposed arrangements for the teaching of foreign languages in primary school. This novel provides for the three-year phased introduction of the first foreign language as compulsory in the second grade of primary school since the school year 2014/2015, and for the three-year phased introduction of optional selection courses for pupils from the second triad from the school year 2014/2015. Among these optional selection contents, the student will also be able to choose another foreign language. The same way is laid down for the introduction of another foreign language as an optional selection subject for third-triad students. However, first foreign language teaching would be introduced in the first class as an optional subject with the school year 2015/2016. As far as learning foreign languages is concerned, students will not be deprived of their ability to choose, on the basis of their desire, ability and needs, of course, together with their parents, to make a decision in the fourth grade. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that children must be able to develop in those areas that are closer to them and where they have an interest. That all of this cannot be done immediately with the coming school year, however, given the public financial situation in our country, it is certainly clear. In addition, the fact that there is a lack or unequal distribution of foreign language teachers in our country is also the reason for the gradual introduction of the proposed proposal. The amendment of the novel contains some other amendments to the law that seek to improve the organisation of work and the unification of rules and practices in certain areas. The novela thus specifies more precisely the conditions for obtaining the status of an athlete or an artist. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the proposed amendment to the Basic School Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u32	Your Honor! In New Slovenia we are committed to developing all the key capacities and capacities of children during schooling. Among them, knowledge of at least two foreign languages is very important. Communication in the mother tongue is the most important and the basic ability to communicate in a foreign language is essential today. This is why Nova Slovenija advocates the early introduction of foreign language learning, if possible in kindergartens. We are also committed to learning two foreign languages in primary school, and we believe that multilingualism and interculturalism must be promoted in Slovenian and wider spaces. Young people need to be given the opportunity to learn as many foreign languages as possible, as they will need them both in contacting people around the world and, more importantly, in their jobs. In principle, the proposed novel proposes solutions for which we advocate in Novi Slovenije. It seems a shame, however, that the Ministry is proposing a one-year delay in the introduction of compulsory foreign language teaching into the second grade of primary school and the late introduction of non-binding foreign language teaching. Why wait a few more years, each year is precious, and with a small effort, the teaching is certainly to be introduced some year or two earlier. Even until the two-year delay in the implementation of the school in nature, as part of the free compulsory programme in primary school, we are detained. We call on the Ministry to implement the school in nature by then and after its introduction in such a way that it does not impose too much additional financial burden on the parents of school children. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the Basic School Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the amendment of the Basic School Act in Positive Slovenia. Given the minor changes and corrections to the law, we did not oppose the urgency of the procedure. The changes follow the principles that we support in Positive Slovenia. Primary education should be made public and accessible to all under the same conditions. In primary school, all participants must have equal opportunities and opportunities. Participants should also have the option of co-decision in the education process itself, i.e. choices. These principles are also the red thread of the white book, which was published in 2011 and is the product of many years of professional work. Amendments and additions to the law, which do not affect the substance of the existing law, have mainly triggered violent reactions in the work of SDS Members when the other foreign language is to remain optional, i.e. optional. This is also the law that was in force during the period when the current opposition with the SDS was in power at the head. And if they were really that much for these changes, they could be proposed at a time when they had power. It is even more absurd that the budget did not provide resources for the education of staff to be taught by another foreign language, nor is it a means for such a process to be carried out normally. As a result, the Government was forced to postpone the introduction of compulsory first foreign language learning in the first triad for one year and to suspend the progressive implementation of the second foreign language as an optional subject from the 4th to the 9th classes for one year. However, from the discussions held at both meetings of the Committee, the difference in understanding what school should be like in Slovenia. Whether it should be a school based on the consideration of a child as an independent person who can express his opinion and position and be given the opportunity and the opportunity to influence the education process and thus the possibility to co-judge his or her future and build his or her own personality. This is what Members of the Positive Slovenia are fond of. And secondly, should primary school education be an exclusive domain of adults and those who guide and guide education and prescribe what is good and best for them, because they already know what is best for the child and how to do it. In Positive Slovenia we advocate and support education, where the child is an equal part of the process, where he has the right and the duty to decide what to do with it, because it is only in this way that he can become a responsible and competent citizen. We support a quality process of education and education in primary school with the possibility that children, in addition to compulsory subjects, including the first foreign language, learn things that they are interested in and where they feel stronger – and these include the second or third foreign language – but this should be an option for all children, from kindergarten to graduation. The amendments proposed in the law also include the maximum daily burden on children in activities carried out outside the school and should not exceed 8 hours of daily burden. The status of an athlete and an artist has also been redefined. All of this and much more this law makes possible, and that is why in Positive Slovenia we will also support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. Ms Mateja Pučnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! We will not support the amendment of the primary school law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, because in the work relating to teaching and learning foreign languages, it does not bring solutions for which we are taking part in the parliamentary group and would ensure quality learning of foreign languages in our primary schools. We believe that the early learning of foreign languages is of paramount importance, so we feel it would be advisable to introduce the first foreign language as a compulsory curriculum into the first grade of primary school, as the law of last year envisaged. Budget funds have been provided and the interest of parents exists, so we regret that the first foreign language with this novel is introduced into the 2nd grade primary school. There are even more concerns about learning another foreign language. The learning of two foreign languages is in line with the resolution on the European Strategy on Multilingualism, the guidelines of the European Commission and the Council of the European Union stipulating the learning of at least two foreign languages in primary school. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, since the mandate of 2004-2008, when the second language of foreign law was enacted under the then Minister, Dr. Milan Zver, and his successor, Dr. Lukšič, has abolished it, we take it that our students from the 7th to 9th grade learn a second foreign language as a compulsory learning class. The project of compulsory foreign language took place from 2008 until this year 159 schools in Slovenia were included. It has proved successful, in addition to parents and teachers, it has also been positively assessed by the Section of the Slovenian Institute for Education, which has also prepared a curriculum, and we regret that this project will not continue in the context of the integration of all primary schools in Slovenia, which we have also pointed out at the extraordinary meeting of the Education Committee, but it has failed, as the project is still slowly ending and this amendment of the law brings the learning of another foreign language only in the context of the selected subjects, which is unacceptable to us. Once again, we would like to point out that the work and organisation of learning in the context of the selected subjects cannot be compared with the organisation and work of the regular study. Mandatory items are mandatory for all, the attitude towards work and language is more serious, the subject is placed in the schedule in the morning and takes place without interruption from 7th to 9th grade. And it is not true that all students will be able to learn another foreign language within the selection classes, even if they want to. This is due to a formula that limits the number of groups of selected subjects according to the size of the school or the number of students in the third triad. If students and their parents do not recognize the necessity of learning another foreign language, the application in a foreign language is less than the application in any other subject, such as in the field of sports or art, and another foreign language teaching school cannot organise, even if interest is expressed. Once again, we would like to stress that the knowledge of more foreign languages is very important to enable additional knowledge and skills, to strengthen the social competence of young people, to raise confidence, to enable young people to become more mobile and to compete with their peers at home and within Europe in their search for employment. Although the new law also brings some other substantive changes, to which we do not oppose in the parliamentary group. However, we do not agree with the organization of foreign language teaching. As I announced at the outset, we will not support the novelties of the law, but we will not oppose its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law, which we adopt by emergency procedure and which concerns primary school. While we advocate that school work should be accompanied by careful changes in school legislation. If I am addressing the issue most frequently highlighted in relation to the proposed amendment, this is the introduction of a second foreign language as a selection subject, its gradual introduction and the mandatory introduction of the first foreign language into the second class, then I must say that this is a change we have been facing since 2007. At the first introduction of compulsory foreign language learning, the Social Democrats were reminded of the absence of professional analyses, as well as among the teaching heads of primary schools, the scepticism was therefore high on the appropriateness of the two compulsory foreign languages and on the appropriate skills at schools. But it didn't help. In 2007, the law was passed. In 2010, a novel was adopted, which prolonged the experiment that was introduced for one year or for a period of time, and also in 2010 it was postponed to 2013 and 2014. This is also why we support the urgent procedure in this law. Now, some real information about the subject that we've been dealing with most for a while. In public opinion, it was possible to see that it was the tanning of those who opposed the mandatory introduction of two foreign languages, followed by only one third of the schools that had been experimented with. The attempt, as it is said, has expired, it is normal that those who were involved in the experiment have been able to say their best, but there was no external evaluation to give a real assessment. However, with the novelty, those who have started the experiment, one third of schools are allowed to continue the experiment, but it is true that they will also begin to introduce a regular course of another foreign language as a selection subject in the second three years. It is therefore inappropriate to talk about plannness because, in fact, the learning of another foreign language begins more early. It should also be noted that Slovenia is the country that has one of the lowest percentages of electives in the primary school system. Primary school is compulsory for all pupils and it is therefore necessary to ensure that as many students as possible finish the school successfully. What needs to be highlighted in the introduction and, unlike any information that is also repeated several times, the ZUJF, which in fact was the fourth attempt to change the introduction of foreign language learning, which provided for compulsory first-class learning, did not foresee sufficient funding for the implementation of the project. So it would be good, though, to build on verifiable data. It is true, however, that for the successful learning of two foreign languages as compulsory subjects we also do not have a training course [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] So there are several professional arguments that make it necessary to approach this issue professionally, as experts in the White Paper have thought, and that is why we support such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Minister, Members, Members of Parliament! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools brings some important innovations and changes, which are expected to come across different views and opinions. Let me focus on the most important and present the position of the National Gazette. First time. We support the introduction of an optional first foreign language in the 1st and as compulsory in the 2nd class, in view of the fact that children coming from non-lingual families or environments should first be described as basic language in their mother tongue. This provides the necessary basis for learning a foreign language. We also support the gradual introduction of the first foreign language for one year with compressed teeth, because we are aware of the state of public finances. Another time. There was a lot of talk to translate the mandatory foreign language project into a compulsory foreign language at all primary schools. In doing so, advocates have forgotten that we cannot and cannot overload children, for this can only lead to the opposite effect. Nor should we overload them on the basis of concerns that this is absolutely necessary because of our smallness. Since the second foreign language, as proposed by the law in the 4th class and as the second or even third foreign language in the 7th class, will become an optional subject of choice, this means that every student will have the right and the possibility to learn another or later a third foreign language, but will also have the opportunity to choose computer, technology, art or sport instead of another foreign language. From our children we cannot and must not expect that all Matija Chopi will, according to the knowledge of foreign languages, Ivana Kobilica in the field of art, Yuri Vega in mathematics or Leona Knock in sport. Although we would like to do so in the National Gazette, we want to keep our expectations and demands for children on the real ground. And for the third time. We support a more precise definition of student status as a prospective or top-notch athlete and as a perspective or top-notch young artist, as well as their rights and obligations arising from this. However, we would like the rules and procedures for obtaining status and adapting school obligations to be standardised and not entirely left to individual schools. We therefore support the bill. Finally, let me make it clear and clear that in the Civil Gazette we expect an appropriate review and revision of standards and standards in the school system only in 2014/2015, at the expense of saving later introduction of the compulsory foreign language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the regulation of the market for work by necessity. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members! You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the labour market regulation law, the novel B. The novelty proposal brings an important novelty, namely that they are long-term unemployed, those who are unemployed for more than a year, the target group for inclusion in public works. In doing so, we want to take the first step towards a more targeted focus of our active employment policy and to devote public work to those who, also through other active employment policy measures, such as subsidies, cannot be included in the labour market. The unemployed person receiving a cash refund will be able to voluntarily engage in public works, and in the meantime, the right to a cash refund will rest in half the time and we will activate half the time. If it is included in public works, and I point out that it is voluntary inclusion, it will be entitled, in accordance with the law, to a minimum payment of between 80% and 120% of the minimum wage, and will also receive the payment of the postal costs and lunches. This inclusion is also important for the unemployed because inclusion is considered during working hours and could re-apply for a dose of monetary compensation. Some guardians are also provided for in the law. If the monetary compensation were accidentally higher than the remuneration for the work carried out in the framework of public works, these amounts would be charged monthly. The substance of the proposed arrangement is to allow the transition from passive to active aid to long-term unemployed persons. This measure will allow a large number of long-term unemployed to be included in public works. However, the second important measure included in this amendment is the exemption of the occasional and temporary part of pensioners from the Special Income Tax Act. This was urgent, for if it hadn’t done so, it would have been a work that has been able to do since 1. 7. actually taxed more than 60 %, of which 25 % is paid from this part, which is intended to finance the scholarships and is paid 8.85 % of the pension and disability benefits. If it were not for this termination, it would have been added to all of this another 25 % tax, which is also paid from the copyright and enterprise contracts, and thus such a form of work would have been actually not feasible. These are two important changes. The solutions that are before you today have arisen in dialogue with the social partners with whom we have reached agreement, but above all this law and those that will be dealt with later, the package and around this package have also been agreed upon. I would like your support, and I thank you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u44	Mr. President, thank you very much. Nice greetings to the minister and your colleagues as well as your dear colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of this proposal by means of an urgent procedure. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anjo Kopač Mrak, representative of the Law and Legal Service and representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made specific comments to Articles 2 and 5. The Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council, in its opinion, supported and at the same time called for the harmonisation of the remaining open issues in the context of the social dialogue prior to the consideration of the draft law at the home work body of the National Assembly. No amendments were tabled within the time limit by qualified proposers and proposals were proposed for amendments to the Committee, which were adopted by the Committee as its amendments. The representative briefly presented the draft law and said that, on the basis of an agreement with the social partners, proposals were prepared for amendments to the Committee with some additional safeguards, which the Government also supported. The debate, which took place mainly on Articles 1 and 3 of the draft law, raised the view that the proposal was in line with the social partners, as it was important that they found compromise solutions. In addition, it was pointed out that the draft law presented a very poor assessment of the financial implications. The debaters considered it really difficult to assess all the financial implications, but they would like to see more precise financial effects of the proposed measures. On the basis of negotiations with the social partners, long-term unemployed persons are guaranteed to be included in the public work programme on the basis of their own decision, and any rejection of inclusion does not constitute an infringement of the obligation of the unemployed person. At the time of receipt of the cash refund, the time of inclusion in the public works will be only half and in the second half the rights will still be settled. The long-term unemployed person will be able to make use of the cash refund for the remaining period following the expiry of his/her involvement in the public works programme. The following raised the question why young people were excluded as a target for public works. The Minister said that young people are not excluded, but public works are a measure to find work for long-term unemployed people, and public works are therefore in the interest of those who are unemployed for more than 12 months. In addition, it highlighted the importance of including the unemployed in the social environment rather than allowing passive recipients to compensate the unemployed. Most discussers agreed that the purpose of the bill was positive, that compromise was good, that incentives should be targeted and voluntary integration into public works should be encouraged. The Committee adopted its amendments and adopted all the articles. The text of the amended draft law, which includes the amendments adopted, is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you to the president for presenting the Committee's report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister and Minister, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Public works as a specific sub-programme of active employment policies are a measure aimed at the employment and social inclusion of more difficult unemployed people. A particularly vulnerable group within this group are certainly long-term unemployed. This is confirmed by the fact that, at this point, 46% of all registered unemployed are long-term unemployed, i.e. almost half. In numbers, this means out of 118 thousand 576 unemployed as many as 54 thousand 545 people. The solution to this problem, which we support and also welcome in the DeSUS Group, as the long-term unemployed are large or the largest proportion of the unemployed, will allow the long-term unemployed who have been registered at the institution for more than one year to become more likely to participate in the working environment, rather than just passive recipients of compensation. By the time they receive unemployment benefits, these persons can be included in public works if they so wish. At the time of receipt of the cash refund, the time of inclusion in the public works will be counted only half and in the second half the rights will continue to be settled. After the expiry of the programme, the cash refund will be used to the end. It is also an important safeguard in the event that the monetary compensation is higher than the remuneration paid for public works. In such a case, the difference can be paid on the other hand, that is, on a monthly basis. The second thing this novelty brings is a reduction in the benefit from the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners. The current burden of this work is almost 60%. After a compromise with the social partners and the Ministry of Finance, this form of work will now be more favourable, lower for a specific tax on certain benefits of 25%. As such, this form of work will be more acceptable to both employers and pensioners. For the DeSUS Group, the content of the bill is acceptable and we will therefore support it because it favours or promotes the activation of long-term unemployed and thus social inclusion, and last but not least, this measure has positive effects on the use of public funds. The support of the law on our part is particularly valid because both proposed substantive solutions increase the possibilities of working for older unemployed and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! Following coordination with the social partners, the new labour market regulation law is significantly different from that discussed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. In New Slovenia, we strongly opposed the reduction of the duty from the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners from 25% to 3%. We estimate that common sense has prevailed and that this proposed provision has now been withdrawn, and we welcome this solution. In principle, we support the incentive to activate long-term unemployed with the possibility of inclusion in public works. In this way, the state can help them maintain their working capacities and social inclusion, which greatly helps to facilitate their return to work. However, we are opposed to a solution that suggests that any refusal to join the public works programme would not constitute a breach of the obligation of the unemployed person. Such a solution is not in line with the situation on the labour market when it is more rewarding for people to receive unemployment benefits than it would be for them to be in a working relationship. When we visit places and people in Slovenia with colleagues from the New Slovenia leadership, many entrepreneurs clearly tell us that the crisis is not yet severe enough. Many cannot get workers for some jobs, and many so-called job seekers come to the interview just to obtain a certificate that they have fulfilled their obligation and that they can continue to retain their compensation. In New Slovenia, therefore, we believe that it is necessary, out of respect for all those who are working honestly and who would also like to work honestly for a fair payment, but this is not possible for them, to establish more order in the labour market. Members and Members of New Slovenia oppose and vote against the solutions brought by this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u50	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government launched a new labour market regulation law in the first place to restrict the target group of unemployed or long-term unemployed persons who can be included in public works. These are those unemployed persons who have been registered at the Employment Service for more than 12 months. What is particularly gratifying is that the Ministry has managed to bring the basic bill into line with the social partners in a good way. I am convinced that the area of the labour market and the rights arising from employment is an area in which every government should be extremely careful. However, I will mention that in the Union of Free Trade Unions, they initially pointed out, on the basis of a basic proposal for a bill, that the amendment should mean, firstly, a reduction in workers' rights to subsidise employers, secondly, a reduction in rights also in the area of the right to a pension for unemployment, and thirdly, a reduction in the amount of unemployment compensation and so on. I would also like to point out on my own here that the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which we adopted earlier this year, was based on social dialogue, and it is right that we are not interfering with this agreement today. As it is said, the agreement was subsequently adopted and coordinated with the social partners. Thus, we have changed the provisions on the full peace of the right to receive monetary compensation, the manner of payment and so on. This means that a long-term unemployed person will also be able to participate in public works during the duration of the right to payment. In doing so, the time of inclusion in public works will be counted at the time of receipt of the cash refund, but only in half time. When the right to financial compensation can also be obtained for a longer period than the duration of the inclusion in public work itself, the long-term unemployed person will be paid cash compensation until the rights acquired expire after the end of inclusion in the public works programme. The content of the law is also in favour of a long-term unemployed person in the work where the monetary compensation will be higher than the remuneration received by the person at the time of inclusion in the public work programme. The difference will be paid monthly and not, as originally stated in the bill, after the end of public work. In short, the difference will be paid in monthly amounts. On the basis of the dialogue with the social partners, we also deleted a provision on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that reduced the levy from temporary and occasional work of pensioners to 30%, as there were different interpretations of taxation of the so-called small work. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we are following in the first place the key objective of the novel proposal, which is to stimulate and integrate as many unemployed as possible into public works. In doing so, it is important that we also follow the new logic of public works, saying that public works remain the right and thus the free decision of an individual whether to engage in public work. So justice, not duty. This also ensures the re-employment and social inclusion of the unemployed. Due in particular to these recent arguments, it is said that we are following the stimulation and integration of the maximum number of unemployed persons into public works, and we will also support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! For adoption, the Government has tabled amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act to cut into the scope of temporary or occasional work of pensioners and public works. In the debate on the parental committee, it has been shown that this intervention is totally unfounded for the temporary and occasional work of the pensioners and that there has been an appropriate amendment which has regulated the area in such a way that it remains unchanged and as is currently the case. However, the field of public works is changing, and this is essential. As we all know, public works are part of an active employment policy, and this is a very important part of governments dealing with the problem of unemployment. But let us be clear, not all unemployed can be included in the public works programme, but only those specifically defined by this programme as an active and targeted population. Thus, it is now possible to include in public works, for example, recipients of monetary compensation, who have been registered in unemployment records for the last 6 months, or who are over 50 years of age registered for 6 months, or who are less than 30 years of age, who have been registered for 6 months. Now, these conditions are getting very tighter. The condition is no longer 6 months of application at the institution, but only one year, which means that the programme is intended exclusively for the long-term unemployed. Such a restriction does not seem reasonable to us, it does not seem appropriate at a time when unemployment does not fall in any way or when there is a greater risk of increasing unemployment. So younger, no matter how many days they've been registered at the institution for more than a year, or younger ones who haven't been registered at the institution for one year, even though it's only eight months, or older ones won't have access to public works anymore. We understand that this problem of long-term unemployment is very pressing and that it must be addressed with all possible measures, but we note that there are also many other programmes in addition to public works which are intended for these target groups, that is to say, long-term unemployed. However, if we look at a little more statistics on public works programmes, we can see that this programme is not successful enough. It could be more, especially in these difficult times, when as many unemployed as possible should be activated through this programme. Thus, only about 4 thousand people a year are given the opportunity to work through public works. And even though this program is supposed to be one of those who is supposed to encourage these people to actually get a job, of these 4,000 people, there are only one-quarter of them working regularly. It is therefore necessary to think in the direction of greater effectiveness of this programme and to include as much as possible a large number of all unemployed. We do not support that certain groups of people are limited or that these options are no longer available. Last but not least, we note that the unemployed who receive compensation will be disadvantaged if they become part of the public works programme. They will be reduced at the time of receipt of the refund. This will be cut short for them. However, since we respect this law and the envisaged changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the agreement with the trade union partners that have adopted these strict conditions, but we point out that, with this law, with a more adapted active employment policy [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Unemployment has done much more than we do today. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u54	Hello again! A substantial amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation refers to a system of public works. The bill provides that only long-term unemployed persons will be able to be included in the public works system, i.e. those persons who have been continuously registered in the unemployment register for more than a year. The proportion of the long-term unemployed at the end of May 2013 was quite worrying 46% of all the unemployed. Long-term unemployment not only means unemployment and loss of income, but also affects the psychosocial situation of people. Social exclusion is increasing, the self - image of people is distorted, there is more depression and other mental problems that often turn into diseases. We therefore strongly support the decision of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity to reserve public works with such limited means as we have at our disposal for a group of long-term unemployed, since this may be the only way for them to reactivate them. It is particularly important for us to stress that inclusion in public works for the unemployed is voluntary if they do not choose to do so, but no sanctions are envisaged. The long-term unemployed person will decide for himself whether to participate in public works, while seriously reducing the period of unemployment compensation, but in this way additional resources will be provided for the implementation of the public works measure. It should be recalled that the initial proposal for a labour market regulation law from the time of Minister Visiak provided for compulsory inclusion in public works and sanctions if the unemployed person did not decide to do so. That's what it's called when it's obvious that we're violating rights, they're a little bit of a diversion. The novelty ahead of us provides for the rest of the right to compensation for one half while at the same time providing that, after one year of inclusion in public service, the unemployed person will be entitled to an additional three months of compensation, but not 50 %, and 80 % of the salary. It is also clear that those long-term unemployed who do not receive unemployment benefits will be able to be included in the public works system. And these, my dear colleagues, are because two-thirds. Last but not least, the proposed amendments to the law have been fully coordinated with the social partners, which we strongly support. What follows is that the proposed law will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All hail again! With the rising numbers of unemployed and very poor prospects in the near future, the most alarming figure is the percentage of long-term unemployed. These are those persons whose uninterrupted unemployment lasts more than a year. Such persons were reported at the end of May, as we have heard many times today, 46% with nearly 119 thousand unemployed people. But here the numbers aren't the only ones we need to worry about. In long-term unemployed people, social exclusion, the time-related loss of knowledge and related non-competitiveness and the consequent non-motivation of this category of jobseekers cause major problems. And in the end, unfortunately, fate and addiction to state aid or social benefits. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation removes this problem to a good extent, as it limits public works to the group of long-term unemployed and thus reintegrates them into the active labour market. This measure transforms the long-term passive recipient of cash compensation as a public service provider into an active worker. In the future, public workers will also have the opportunity and the right to training and education in public works. It is envisaged that, on the basis of the measures proposed by the law, 30% of the long-term unemployed could be included in the public works system. It should also be said that the original version of the bill provided, inter alia, that the full time of inclusion in public works would be counted at the time of receipt of the cash refund. In agreement with the social partners, however, this proposal was so endeared that the time of inclusion in public works would be only half. The measures taken by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act are considered a step in the right direction and are supported in the Civil Gazette. Dear Members, there is no worse punishment for a person than being unemployed. Let us do everything in our power to make these penalties as few as possible in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you so much for the misery, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal of the law, not only because it is complemented by an agreement with the social partners, just as we welcomed this agreement at the beginning of the year, and we have adopted then the law that has been in force so far or is still in force. In the parliamentary group, we support the inclusion of the unemployed in the public work programme on the basis of our own decision. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the explanation given by the proponents regarding the possibility of including long-term unemployed in public works, rather than merely passive recipients of unemployment benefits. As we say, in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for an Act on Intervention Measures in the Field of the Market in Work and the Emergency Protection Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, or Members and Members of Parliament! The law before you, along with the previous one, represents a package that is consistent with the social partners. The law provides a temporary incentive for the employment of young unemployed persons and provides for a financial situation in which maternity leave is temporarily limited to the amount of twice the average wage in our country, which is about EUR 2 000 800 gross. Restricting the amount of maternity leave is not a desirable measure, but it is a measure that does not interfere with the fundamental social security of young families. A higher maternity leave than this limit is currently given to about 100 mothers. It is important that the law provides incentives for the employment of young people, in the form of a relief to employers. Employers, as proposed by this law, would be exempt from paying social contributions if they hired a young unemployed person up to thirty years of age for an indefinite period of two years. In the social dialogue, we also agreed on restrictions on employers, which can be requested by an employer who, three months before his employment, did not forgive for business reasons, did not have a blocked account within thirty days before that and paid regular contributions and salaries to his employees in the last six months. If the employer terminates such a contract two years before the expiry of the two-year period, there is a provision for a sanction, namely that he should settle all the contributions that were forgiven back. The measure would apply from 1 November of this year to 31. 12. the following year. This means that if, during this period, unspecified employment were to be concluded, employers would be entitled to the conditions provided for by the law. I would like to point out that this is an intervention measure in the context of last year's Slovenia's highest increase in youth unemployment rates throughout the European Union. I believe that, from a financial point of view, as well as from all other aspects, young people as well as countries, it is much better for these young people to be employed and pay at least the contributions of the worker, rather than to be at home on the parents' or even on the country's shoulders. Young people need to be given a chance. I believe that, along with this measure, we will employ 5,000 more young people than we did last year, and that roughly the proportion of employees for an indefinite period of time will be around 7,000 jobs for an indefinite period of time. Unfortunately, however, abuses are always possible, with the amendment we proposed that the date of the application of the young unemployed person in the institution be extended from one month to three months. Why? In order to avoid the substitution of former employees for a certain period of time now under this subsidy. I believe such a guard is good. At the same time, we will also closely monitor the inclusions under this law, and if abuses occur, we will also be able to intervene in the very validity of the law. However, I believe that today is not the time to talk primarily about abuses, but rather to support a law that gives young people the opportunity to maybe get a better job in these difficult conditions in which the country is. I think this law needs young people in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee has treated the law as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, considered the draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the proposal for an emergency law. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anjo Kopač Mrak, representative of the Law and Legal Service and representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed proposal, in particular supporting the incentives for employers to employ the objectives of a group of unemployed persons under 30 years of age and expressing concerns about the setting of the ceiling on maternity leave payments. With regard to the measure of reduction by a decision on recognised amounts of cash compensation for the case of unemployment, they call on the social partners to agree on acceptable solutions in the follow-up to the coordination. During the business term, the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, which was not adopted by the Committee or which became irrelevant, tabled the amendments by qualified candidates. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the agreement with the social partners, proposals were also proposed for amendments to the Committee, which were adopted by the Committee as its amendments. The representative of the proposer presented the proposed law and said that, on the basis of an agreement with the social partners, proposals for amendments to the Committee with some amendments and additional safeguards supported by the Government were prepared. The debate that took place mainly on Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law and the amendments tabled raised the view that the measures were good and that the issue of non-transparent as regards the financial consequences was raised. A longer discussion was held mainly on Article 3 which provides for incentives for employment. On the basis of an agreement with the social partners, a proposal for an amendment was adopted to the Committee setting out the conditions to be met by the employer in order to justify the exemption of the employer's contribution to compulsory social insurance and a number of safeguards to prevent the possibility of misuse of subsidies. The unemployed persons who will be employed by the employer and, for this reason, will be entitled to the exemption of contributions to compulsory social security are entitled to rights from all social security, i.e. unemployment insurance and parental protection insurance. The panellists agreed that the measure was a good one, and some pointed out in particular the problem of the likeness of the measure which did not have financial coverage, so a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 3, which would set the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a payer. The proposal was not adopted and the Minister said they were aware that the measure was not the best. However, they were guided by the awareness that it was necessary to encourage the employment of young people who were unemployed, as it is appropriate for society to give them the opportunity to work. With this intervention measure, which is also limited in time, they want to stop our country's trend with the greatest youth unemployment. We've had a 30% increase in unemployment in the last period. In the debate on Article 4 and the amendment tabled by which the applicants deleted the limit on the amount of maternity allowance, which, according to the proposal of the law, was not more than 2 times the value of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia, it was stressed that this was a sensitive area of family policy, which had already undergone some harmonisation. The applicants suggested that the amount of the maternity allowance should remain unchanged, as Slovenia is the seventh country in the world with the oldest population and therefore believes that the proposed restriction on maternity benefits would increase the low birth rate. The Minister said that this was not a systemic measure, but an intervention measure, and she also felt that it was not an intervention of such a nature that the desire for a child to do so would fall. It stressed that, due to the current difficult financial situation, ensuring the difference between expenditure on parental allowances and paid parental care contributions requires a reduction in the payment of all parental benefits, including maternity leave. It pointed out, however, that only 100 beneficiaries receive such compensation, which is larger than twice the number of beneficiaries. The Committee adopted its amendments and all articles. A complementary bill was prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u64	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection is weak, incomplete and discriminatory to young families, so Members of New Slovenia will not be supported. It is interesting that the social partners have managed to agree not to implement the initial proposed linear reduction in unemployment benefits by 3%, which they would support in New Slovenia. However, they did not withdraw from the law restrictions on the amount of the maternity allowance, which is really controversial for us. As we have pointed out many times before, Slovenia is the 7th oldest country in the world, and we believe that the proposed restriction of maternity benefits could make low fertility worse, but it will not improve in any way. The area of maternity or parental leave and compensation is a sensitive area of family policy, which has already undergone some harmonisation and change. However, it seems unacceptable to us to be saving right in the case of young mothers who should be encouraged to have multiple mothers. On the other hand, we see the mistreatment of state bankers, which has been wiped out by billions of recapitalisations. Incentives to employers for the employment of unemployed persons under 30 years of age who have been registered in unemployment records for at least three months for an indefinite period of time are a good and welcome proposal, which, according to the observations of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia of 9. 7th, completely incomplete. The government did not justify why it was young by the age of 30 and not a wider or narrower target group. The Court of Auditors also expresses its fear that employers will abuse the measure and will forgive their already employed young people and then benefit again from their re-employment. Finally, it is scandalous that the proposal for a law between financial consequences does not provide for any contribution to health and pension insurance to employers who will be exempt from paying these contributions for 24 months under the proposal. As I said at the outset, the Members of New Slovenia will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much again, President. I understand some concerns about this law. Even in the Group of Positive Slovenia we expressed them mainly in the first part, some of them still remain. Let's do it in a row. What is important is that the intervention law covers, in the first place, temporary measures, which also form part of the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the adopted stability programme and its completion this year. At the outset, I will touch on those measures that mean ensuring a restrictive policy in the field of social transfers, even because it was part of today's coalition – among them, the Positive Slovenia is a very loud opponent to such or similar measures a year ago within the framework of Zujf or later in the framework of labour market reform. In Positive Slovenia, as I said, we had serious concerns about the proposed solution, which was adopted in the Government, as we also pointed out to the Government. It is now specifically a 3% reduction in monetary compensation. The Ministry of Justice has subsequently coordinated and coordinated the law with the social partners. The solution that we have adopted on the home working body with the proposed amendment is also consistent with and consistent with the agreement reached in the recent labour market reform. The bill provided for a reduction in the amount of unemployment compensation recognised by a decision of 3 % for the period of validity of this Act. But with the amendment of the committee, we've deleted this solution, and the real reduction in the monetary compensation is not going to happen. The considerations remain in the solution, which means limiting the height or fixing the ceiling of payment of the maternity allowance to 2 times the average monthly salary in the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister also said today that it is not a systemic but an intervention measure, which, as it is said, is time-limited, which will not endanger the social security of the mother and the child. It also considers that it is not an infringement of the right to waive mothers' wishes for a family and a child, but it is a measure affecting only women, because the maternity allowance is a woman's exclusive right within the first three months after childbirth, and secondly, this measure primarily affects women with higher education in better paid jobs. In terms of fairness, perhaps we can truly understand this measure, which would hurt, as far as I know, about 100 mothers. According to available data, the maximum maternity allowance is just over €7 000, I am talking about net amounts, while the lowest maternity allowance is only €250, also in net amount. In terms of fairness, as we say, we can support such a measure, making it clear that at the same time we are assigning or transforming it from a developmental to a distinct social material or giving it only a social component. But what is important under this law is a third measure, which is an extremely positive measure aimed at young unemployed people, with a desire to increase the integration of young people into the labour market. The fact is, in Slovenia, youth unemployment is one of the highest in the European Union and intervention measures to increase the employment opportunities of young unemployed people are more than necessary. This is an incentive for employers to hire young people, i.e. the target group is made up of unemployed persons under 30 years of age. The proposed job facilitation for young unemployed people will help to increase employment and thus increase the flow of funds into both social registers, which is absolutely important in terms of public financial revenues. The unemployed persons who will be employed by the employer and, for this reason, will be entitled to an exemption from the payment of contributions to compulsory social security are entitled to rights from all social security, i.e. unemployment insurance and parental protection insurance. In the end, the law no longer provides for the reduction of unemployment benefits by 3 %, the amount of maternity benefits is limited to 2 times the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia and the definition of young unemployed persons is clearly defined, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] companies stimulated by the State for the employment of these persons and the period when the unemployed person is registered at the institution. [[...]] In line with the Court of Auditors' reports, the second-reading coalition has also drafted an amendment to Article 3, thus eliminating possible doubts and introducing safeguards to the law, against possible infringements. Positive Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Labour Market and Parental Protection Interventions Act, which is before us today, provides for only two measures: incentives for employment of persons under 30 years of age for indefinite time and intervention in the payment of maternity benefits and other rights in this area. Let me first touch on the restriction of the maternity allowance, which my predecessors have been very quickly prescribing and skipping when, however, it is very, very important. The proposed upper limit of the maternity allowance is inadmissible. At the same time, such a proposal also confirms that the current coalition clearly agrees with the proposals of the previous government, which proposed the adoption of Zujf. Zujf was affected by family policy, we admit, but the maternity benefits remained completely intact because we were aware of their importance. The government is now proposing to limit the maternity allowance to twice the average wage. And let me remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, the financial impact that the Government of this title promises this year for all 100 young mothers who will receive this grave intervention is, say, one salary of the Slovenian manager. Of course, this is not the only cut in family politics. The current coalition, which, as Zujf was said to have criticised so strongly at the time, is now taking a step further and adding even greater incision to family politics. In practice, the proposal for a law with provisions that some would like to be presented as a free choice and a greater involvement of fathers in the care and upbringing of children means that, in practice, young mothers are reduced to one month's leave of absence for care and child protection. And the fact is that those fathers who will take advantage of this – otherwise a good opportunity – will be forced into this law very little, because it does not depend only on their will, it also depends on how benevolent their employer will be. As you know, in the current situation, it is difficult to announce one month’s absence — even if due to the care of the child — from the employer. On this account, if we understand it correctly, the State will in particular save by not paying the child's compensation. So the country keeps it at the expense of family policy. However, the proposed measures, which encourage employers to employ young people up to thirty years of age by exempting them from contributions, are of course very welcome. We have also strongly advocated this on the Committee, and we believe that in the current difficult situation, as youth unemployment increases, the country must do its utmost to limit and encourage employers to employ young people. However, we want this measure to be fully transparent, regardless of how good it is and how we support it. Transparent, too, in this sense, to tell exactly who will contribute to these rights that young people receive. It is wrong to understand that contributions are something similar to taxes, so that the exemption of these contributions can be equated, for example, with an investment relief. That's not true. To pay our contributions, we get a counter-service, such as health insurance, pension insurance. Someone who will receive this service, who will be entitled to health insurance, will not pay this contribution, so someone will pay it instead. We support this measure, I say once again, and we have strongly advocated this, but we also want to make it clear that there is a transparent explanation of who will also pay for this exemption. And we propose that this is a country or a budget, as is the case in all other similar cases where the country is involved in solving similar problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The law before us is an intervention law, which means that it contains measures that are temporary and designed to intervene quickly to alleviate the crisis we are in. The draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection contains two main solutions. The first relates to the establishment of the ceiling for payment of maternity benefits and the second measure is an incentive for employers to employ young people between 15 and 30 years of age. The law was also in line with the social partners. Social Democrats are not thrilled with the restriction of maternity allowance, which belongs only to mothers for a total duration of 105 days before and after childbirth. However, in the current situation, this is the only right from a social security system that does not have a ceiling. Since solidarity in this difficult public financial and economic situation is more important than ever before, it seems to us to place a reasonable measure on the basis of twice the average monthly wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Especially because it is limited only to a period until economic growth exceeds 2.5%. We must be aware that twice the average wage is about EUR 3,000 gross or little less than EUR 1,000 800 net salary. Currently, this maternity allowance receives, as has already been said, 100 births. At the same time, it is not negligible that the lowest maternity net has paid off 250 euros or is seven times less than that amount. In Zujf, Janša’s government proposed a reduction in the ceiling of the child’s allowance and protection during a further 260 days of parental leave, from a valid 2.5-fold to a 1.5-fold average monthly salary, which would have affected significantly more than 100 births. That is why, together with colleagues from Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats proposed to raise this threshold twice the average wage, which was also accepted. After the adoption of this intervention law, it will compensate for an entire parental leave of 365 days up to the same level, as stated at the level of 2 times the average wage. However, we are pleased to support the other measure adopted by this law by the Social Democrats. It is an exemption to pay the employer’s contributions for two years if, for an indefinite period, he employs a person who is registered in the unemployment register. With the amendment we received today on the bench, the proposed period of unemployment is at least three months before employment, and this applies to persons under 30 years of age. The unemployment rate is 20.6% and is twice as high as the overall unemployment rate. According to Eurostat, Slovenia had the largest increase in youth unemployment of up to 25 years, even higher than recorded in Greece and Spain between December 2011 and 2012, i.e. during the Janša government. We believe that the measure proposed by this law will encourage employers to decide on the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time, which means the necessary security and the possibility of future planning for young people and, if you wish, for families as well. In the case of a minimum wage, the amount of savings for the employer will be around EUR 3 000 and the average wage will be around EUR 5 000 for 24 months, as long as the measure lasts, which is not negligible. It is also important that the law provides for sanctions for the early termination of the employment contract and for guards to prevent abuse. In addition, the additional fuse is proposed by the amendment and will prevent it from being manipulated in this way. A comprehensive view of the public financial impact should be given. It is precisely because of these safeguards that we believe that abuse will be largely prevented, so these young people who will work under the proposed employer relief measure will also contribute their share, first of all to the budget, so they will pay their income, and also to the cash registers, totalling 10.6 million. Since they will be employed, they will not receive social assistance, which means that the financial impact will also be greater or positive than if they were unemployed. For all we say, the Social Democrats will support all the solutions that the proposed law brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again, hello to you all! The Labour Market and Parental Protection Interventions Act is a result of the persistent growth of youth unemployment and the current poor financial situation in the country. The first measure introduces incentives for the employment of unemployed young people up to the age of 30, as the employment trends of this age structure, as has already been said, are poor. The employer's law, which employs at least three months before the adoption of the amendment to Article 3, the unemployed young person, for the first 24 months of the person's employment, exempts the employer's contributions to pension and disability insurance, health insurance, parental protection insurance and unemployment insurance. Otherwise, the proposal also lays down certain conditions for employment for the employer and at the same time imposes on him the payment of justified contributions back in the event of the employee’s cancellation before the expiry of 24 months. In the Citizens' List, we support measures that encourage the creation of new jobs, but we point out that the Government must also provide transparent funding for all measures. However, the second measure, which will affect currently around 100 beneficiaries, limits the amount of maternity allowance which cannot be higher than 2 times the value of the average monthly salary in the Republic of Slovenia established by the regulation governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households. This measure will, however, be in force until including the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of the social product. We support the measures adopted by law in the National Gazette and, at the same time, we want the early decline in the number of unemployed and as high as possible, the economic growth as possible, that the first measure should not be repeated and that the second measure should expire as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik, Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u74	Again, thank you very much for your words, this time Madam Vice-President. All the other men present! I've said hello once before, and I won't say it again. The reduction of support for the unemployed and the reduction of the maternity allowance, according to the SLS Group, are certainly very painful and unpopular measures. We decided in the parliamentary group, after careful consideration, that we would support the complementary proposal of the law if it had the support of the social partners. On the basis of an agreement with the social partners, appropriate amendments and a further reduction in unemployment benefits have been adopted on the parent committee and some protection elements have been added to the draft law, which is why the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party supports. We also support it because it is a matter of temporary emergency measures that represent the fulfilment of the part of the government's commitment under the 2013 Stability and Complementary Programme to provide a restrictive policy in the field of social transfers, which includes, in particular, limiting the amount of some monetary compensation. The limitation of the amount of the maternity allowance is limited to a maximum of two times the average wage, so those parents belonging to the lower classes of the beneficiaries will not be affected, so the reduction will not pose an additional threat to the socially disadvantaged families. Of course, we will be very careful about further changes in family policy, as the changes indicated are more critical in the positive discrimination of young families in particular. There are also positive provisions in the law, not just restrictions. In our Group of Members, we welcome the incentives envisaged for the employment of young unemployed persons, which we believe is positive in two ways. The first is that the younger unemployed will get a job easier and faster, as it is important for them to join the labour market as soon as possible after the study. Another positive aspect, however, is the consequent increase in employment and thus the greater inflow of funds into social treasury. There is an urgent need to act to halt the 30% growth of the unemployed among young people. Young people's unemployment for their future is certainly not encouraging, nor is it for the future of our people. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we really hope that the measures will bring a positive trend. Although some guardians have been added with the amendment adopted to Article 3, we call on the Government in particular to ensure transparency in the allocation of these incentives and thus to prevent the possible misuse of young people for illegal gain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. And Mrs Jana Jenko, DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! Social dialogue in the adoption of legislation relating to the modification of the type of laws which affect human rights and obligations or the standard of people is already important in normal situations. However, when the economic, financial and social situation is not ideal or even acute, social dialogue and coordination regarding the adoption of the necessary measures are particularly important. From the initial proposal of the law to the content that we have on the table today, there have been many changes that are the result of a compromise between the Government and the social partners. Among these compromise solutions is the deletion of the initially projected 3% reduction in unemployment benefits, which we particularly welcome in our Group. For those unemployed who have been in the institution for more than a year and receive a refund of only 50 % after the last reduction after Zujf, this reduction would have been a blow for the second time in about a year. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the Government's move to move away from the planned reduction of compensation because we believe that the existing situation in the country can be resolved in any other way and not only by hitting the most vulnerable groups. The DeSUS Group supports the proposed measure to encourage employers to employ young unemployed people. This measure is very positive, as it is a group of young people under 30 who are very risky for job seekers. The youth unemployment rate is 23% for us, which means around 28 000 unemployed, which is not encouraging data. Even less encouraging is the fact that Slovenia is first in the European Union after the growth of the unemployed among young job seekers. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the updated proposal for a law with all guardians resulting from negotiations with the social partners and setting out the conditions to be met by the employer, that for two years he is entitled to exemption from the employer's contribution to compulsory social security, is now more appropriate and suitable for support. However, given the nine billion euros that the Member States of the European Union, including Slovenia, can draw on to address youth problems, we expect more action to be taken to benefit young people in this area. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we would like the family policy not to be affected, but the measure to set the ceiling for payment of the maternity allowance is acceptable. It is acceptable mainly for two reasons. Firstly, the measure is not permanent, it is only temporary. It is time-bound to the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2.5% of gross domestic product. This is the moment at which the whole palette of measures already taken in Zuyf is linked. The second reason is that Zujf and I have already reached all other parental benefits in the same way by fixing the ceiling, and the limits of the highest pensions have also been reached. In the DeSUS Group, we will give support to the proposed intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles or amendments tabled. We will first discuss Article 3. Two amendments were tabled under Article 3, one being tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the other being tabled by the coalition groups of Members. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u78	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! They only count the results, that's all. Just the results. The result of the active employment policy of APZ could be said to be a bit of a joke, the academic singing choir. As many years as we have, we have more unemployment every year. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, do not work. They're not working. These are not measures, they are some kind of work to do, and we show our citizens and citizens how we work. The results of this work are — today, what is the result of the work: we will reduce the maternity rate. Are these the measures that are supposed to work? Look, everybody can laugh at us. I told my case. Why don't you let me stand here and announce how good the director was? My firm went bankrupt. I'd say I'm crazy. What do you think our citizens and citizens think? That we're politicians and ministers crazy. That's what they think. Because we take something from them with every marriage. Look, this isn't the right way. And these are intervention measures for labour market reforms. Now we go for two words, "intervention," and "work market." We're actually in a crisis right now. This crisis is no longer a recession, but it is already a depression. Why? As economic growth declines as quickly as Slovenia does, we go against depression. When unemployment goes up to 20%, it's depression. When every law takes on the rights that the state has previously shared, because it has really shared them richly, I have also warned about this ten years ago, and when we raise taxes to preserve some social peace and show that there is some work to be done, it is already depression. However, if we study carefully, this is not the first economic crisis, but it is true that in Slovenia, as well as in Yugoslavia, it is the first, because Tito was fantastically able to drive, and every time we come into the crisis, he goes for credits. Then we are in Slovenia since the 1990s, and in 2008 we really came into the first crisis, from which we cannot, we are already depressed. But in 1920, the so-called first forgotten crisis was in America. Read how they saved her. In 1929, the second so-called major economic crisis, which then hit Europe. US President Hoover was saving her just like we are now. He increased taxes, increased public spending, strengthened the public sector and continuously intervened in the field of the economy through intervention measures. Do you know when America actually came out of the crisis? In 1954. So, from 1929 to 1954, we're going to need this kind of action for about that long. In the meantime, they were fortunate enough to see that World War II was, otherwise, analysts found that the question was whether they would have come back in 1954 from the crisis. Now for the finale. Why do you think we have such meaningless measures and intervention laws? You know why? I'll ask you directly. Which of the applicants for the current intervention measure in labour market reform was one month employed in their company and earned a salary? I can answer that. None. Did these candidates have one man in employment for one month and pay him? Nobody. And if you don't have experience, if you don't know what it means to earn a salary, then you're proposing pointless measures that aren't measures and that don't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Since there was still an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply for the floor. First, I give the floor to Mrs. Romani Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I would like to discuss the work on youth employment benefits by the age of 30. I have already pointed out in the presentation of the Group's position that we are very much in favour of this measure and also of all other measures aimed at reducing youth unemployment. We also welcome these new schemes, represented by the European Union for the resolution of youth unemployment. In this context, we're also kind of, I'll say, dissatisfied. But as much as Slovenia will get from this title, something will. However, let me point out that, from around 6 billion or now, the scheme is expected to be further increased, as much as money is available in Europe to reduce youth unemployment, this success is very relative to the fact that we have managed to obtain a little less than €10 million out of 6 billion. But anyway, every money we get for these purposes is good. The problem is really hot, the unemployed are less young from day to day. But let me draw attention to something that we have already stressed several times in recent years. The problem of youth unemployment is not only because it is a bad economic situation, because businesses are in such a difficult situation as these, but this problem deepens the completely wrong school policy in recent years. Now, more than ever, we have shown that in Slovenia we train people for professions and areas that no one needs. We have highly educated young people who do not find their opportunities in the labour market because there is simply no demand for them. On the other hand, we also have professions that employers would like to employ, and unfortunately they do not find. We will have to pay very close attention to this structural gap in the future and do something in this area too, otherwise unemployment among young people will not be reduced and the benefits will still be so high. To now move on to why I am skeptical of this measure, the only reason is that it is completely opaque, untransparent in the sense that it does not define who will pay these costs, if I say so. This is a contribution, and the contributions are that type of duty, unlike the taxes for which the payer, on the other hand, receives a service, is entitled to a service, is entitled to health insurance, is entitled to pension insurance. From this title, there is one future pension that goes to him, but today and in the present. And see if the state, the government, the proposer, the coalition MPs keep your eyes closed against this fact, that someone has to pay for it, and we will pay all taxpayers through the budget, through incentives or transfers that the budget will have to provide to these cash registers where the money runs out, that is a fact. And it's no different than it is. We just want it to be written in the law because we want it to be perfectly clear. We agree with all solidarity, we support it, in the pension system, in the health system. Some pay more, but they never benefit from the scope of services that they have actually paid for. Some, however, pay little and benefit more than they have paid. Because we have a solidarity system that flows from those who pay more to those who pay less. And we agree with that. We don't want anything to change. We want to maintain a social and solidarity society. But we want it to be known that this is something to be paid for. We want the picture to be transparent. And in this context, of course, we are also disturbed by the fact that, when the law is presented, the Government has determined that there are no financial implications here. Look, if we're actually closing our eyes like this, then we'll never get public finances into the green branch because we're incapable of doing them. If someone writes for such a measure that there are no financial effects – please!? Then tell me why, in all other areas, when the state contributes part of the contribution to farmers and to the disabled and to older employees, why do we write in the laws clearly that the funds are hidden from the budget. Pika. Just not here. Why not? Let's be honest and let's say the funds are hidden from the budget. And we'd be happy to support that. I would point out something else, and we did not have this in the official works prepared for this point at the E-club, at least I did not notice, but it is the purely official position of the Court of Auditors requested by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. If I am well aware, I had to examine it very quickly now in a short period of time. But the Court of Auditors has responded to this proposal, or all the concerns that the Commission has had, how these financial effects are, and also how they are with the positive effects that this law foresees. Therefore, because of these measures, they will be employed by a new 5,000 young people. I believe you'll be able to read this position for yourself. I'm not gonna read it here, but I just want to take it for a minute. The Court of Auditors has literally broken up this bill, if I make it more harshly. They have so many questions and concerns that I don't know how the government will find all the answers to them. Is it really because of this relief that 5,000 more young people will be employed, we will see in the following. The Court of Auditors is very concerned that there is no in-depth explanation here at the back, because the Government thinks that it is exactly 5,000 people, and that's why it's decided. There are a lot of open questions, but I believe we can never close them all. And that at the expense of solving the problem of youth employment, which we all really agree is very, very hot and that we need to do something and work here. But let us be so honest that we are doing this at the expense of someone who will suffer from pension bills. But I believe it's hard for us to imagine that the pension fund will suffer as a result of this in forty years, because it's 40 years away. But one day someone will wonder why the pension register is in such bad shape. So today, when we ask ourselves about all those measures that were once taken, we have to pay them today, asking each other what they did at the time to produce such a manna for us in the pension box. But let's just say we put this moment forty years in the future, and let's go to the present. What about the medical checkout? It is true that some who are unemployed today will be given employment through this measure to help them pay their contributions, to make the social problem, that there may be less social assistance as a result of this measure, but respected colleagues, I assure you that the transformation from social assistance directly into employment does not go so easy. And certainly at this point there are no 5,000 young people who are being paid social security contributions by the State or who are helping them to maintain social security in any way, and that is exactly what 5,000 young people are now going to benefit from this measure. He won't. Definitely not. And there is another danger here that there will be others who are not actually targeted by this measure and would otherwise be employed, even if it were not. In fact, they will benefit from the positive effects of this law. But it's okay. Let those who can benefit, who can benefit as much as they can, for more when they benefit, there will be less unemployment among young people, and I believe that this is the common goal of all of us. But I'm done with that. We agree on the goal, one eye will be closed, with the law incomplete and unconceived, at the expense of higher targets, on the basis of the fact that some young people will be more employed than they are now. But here in this area, let's know who's drinking, who's paying. Let's know who's gonna pay for this. And we'll insist on that. Therefore, of course, I ask you to support our amendment, because this amendment, if what the government says is true, is not going to have any financial consequences, if that is true, then these words, which we add to the text to cover the contributions of the countries to be hidden from the budget, I think it specifically writes, as in the Disability and Pension Insurance Act. Look what it says in the law we recently passed. In Article 156, "the exempt part of the employer's contribution to those workers shall be paid by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 161 of this Act". Pika. Just so we're clear. And if the government is not afraid of the financial consequences it says it does not have, by adopting this sentence, which does not take anything away from anyone and which does not burden the budget, it has nothing to lose. That's why I believe you'll support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! The government of Alenka Bratušek has set youth unemployment reduction as one of its priority objectives and will try to contribute in a variety of ways. Of course, it is clear that the most important way to reduce youth unemployment is to revive economic growth and increase demand for labour. However, other measures that the Government can provide may also encourage the employment of these very vulnerable populations. We have already heard that in the past Slovenia did not judge among countries with an alarmingly high rate of youth unemployment. We were on the average of the European Union. But look at it, just during the time of the government of Janez Janša, in the last period of its reign, youth unemployment has leaped up as in no other European country. You say that the Government has not obtained enough European funds or from the Youth Employment Initiative, but I must tell you that the former Minister Vizjak recently said that he is very afraid if we are even entitled to these funds. There has been a lot of effort, additional arguments and indicators that Slovenia has entered this scheme and acquired these 10 million and 8 million funds. This is all praise to the Minister, who has succeeded and, in fact, provided, after my calculations, employment opportunities for at least a thousand young people. Another measure which can contribute significantly to the employment of young people is in the said intervention law. The aim is to exempt employers from the payment of contributions to all forms of social insurance. In this way we will increase the employment of young people, especially for an indefinite period of time, because this measure is linked to this, and thus we will also gain an additional inflow into both cash registers, this is called health and pension, and on the other hand also into the budget. The calculations show a total of 10.6 million. However, when we are so worried about who will pay, I would like to draw your attention, colleagues and colleagues, to the health insurance issue in particular. Whether we know that the ratio between the payments of individual categories of insurers is also one to ten and the rights enjoyed by all are the same. Who's paying for this? Where does it say that? Solidarity is distributed among the different categories of insurers. That's what happens in health care. And in health care, we have categories, from farmers to those we call other categories, including family members and those who pay themselves, as I said, one in ten. On average, the employee pays EUR 2 000 400 per year and such a person pays 240 per year. There are enormous discretions and equal rights for everyone here. He's covering for solidarity. And in the same way it's supposed to be here. Therefore, if concern is expressed for some, let it be expressed for others, without having double criteria. I would also say that I am convinced that this measure will be able to produce full results only if there is a recovery of economic growth, because even such incentives do not mean much to employers, if there is no market, there is no demand, because they have nothing to employ. That is why we must work hard to increase economic growth as well. On the other hand, I agree, even with the school system and with other measures, it would be appropriate to encourage greater integration on the one hand during schooling, on the other hand, between the needs of the economy. And it has been proven that those countries that have this greater connection have a lower rate of youth unemployment. This is why, of course, additional measures are being announced that will change mainly the policy of student work, which will actually stimulate the work of young people in activities, in professions for which they are also educated. In any event, consideration should also be given to reintroducing a dual education system that has proven to produce positive results. In doing so, it should not be forgotten that the Slovenian economy has extremely low added value because it has simply failed to carry out its restructuring. It shows too much need for low-skilled labour or for those with vocational education, but not enough for those with high education. Therefore, as we note the link between the economy and the school system, we must not forget that our primary task must be to find incentives for those forms of economic activity that will create new jobs, especially those with the highest levels of education. And at the end of the day, allow me, otherwise I wouldn't, but my colleagues dared me to touch family politics. As it is said, you have radically reduced the rights of families in Slovenia, 1.3 average wages, joint measures in families with two children, one in kindergarten and one in maternity leave, the available income of the family decreased by 5.2%, but when we talked about two average wages per parent, by 13%. And then, my dear, there was no heartache, no one stressed how fertility would decrease and so on. I've pointed it out, and we don't like the confusion coming. And even in the past, when we had no economic crisis, there were restrictions on the above payment of maternity leave because there were abuses. Parental leave can be planned, and many times it has happened that some have increased their salary just before going on maternity leave to receive a higher compensation. That's what's been going on. And that's why the restrictions were put in place. The limit at the level of two average wages, which also applies to parental compensation for a period of 260 days, is in fact the same as for parental compensation. And once again, this is an intervention measure that will last until the gross domestic product grows by 2.5% or one year after that. In short, we don't like what we had to take. Just forgive me, be right when you talk about 100 births and 105 days, also point out everything else that you have accepted and that has affected families significantly more than the measure we are planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Mirko Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much. First of all, a brief replica of a colleague who discussed it a little bit in front of the ladies. He's constantly judging us, we're all, we're crazy, all the ministers are crazy, that's what they say at the inn and so on. Please stop these insults of all of us and sweep before your threshold. I will not allow anyone to be in harm's way in this House. Look, the constitution says we're a social state. True, these are small steps, but for those who will get work and bread, they are still big steps. And in this social sector, about which something has already been said today, let's stop pouring crocodiles tears for those who get 7,000 euros in maternity benefits. I can't imagine. Who is it?Oh, my God! 100 moms. But we don't talk about those who get 250 euros. Seven thousand euros had some tycoons to pay, now they're sitting in jail. Just like that, 7,000 euro moms at the age of 20, if she makes money, hat down, and I'm sorry there aren't 10,000 like that. But I'm worried about those who get 250, 300 euros in compensation. Those, I don't know how they live. I think we need this solidarity. It has been said that someone pays a considerable contribution to health insurance and never benefits from it. I'd pay more if I had a guarantee that I didn't need health care. Now we're talking nonsense. Look, solidarity is absolutely necessary when I go to a doctor, waiting in line like the ones who work honestly and sweep the roads. And that's right. And we're both the same in paying for the contribution if it exists. But when I pay for medical bills and other things, of course I will pay more and less, but the one who pays less has to survive with the one, even though I don't know how to make 250 euros, because even for diapers the child doesn't get enough. That's why the rich have to be taxed! It's over. To confiscate the property. Those who have taken advantage of themselves and cannot prove where the property originates must be seized. Today I read to tax, I don't know, 70% or how many percent of those who can't prove where they come from. If I drive a huge car and I don't know where I got this money from, I need to take it, not just to tax 70%. I have to take it away because I don't have that kind of wealth from the sky and the house doesn't know what, but it's a yacht at sea. Such ones must be punished, then we will be a state of law. And let people talk about it in pubs, not how stupid we all are. Because it's not true. None of us here is stupid, and no one is a bastard, so I'm very protesting. I will support this amendment to Article 3 for a simple reason, because it is solely a safeguard to avoid exploitation. And I think that these protectors have to be, because, you know, a lot of employers can take advantage of these subsidies, anyway, they've taken advantage of themselves, they've made a fortune on the basis of such subsidies. However, to prevent this from happening, this amendment is to Article 3 and I will support it. But I am happy to support the whole marriage, because I think, as I said in the introduction, it is a small step, but for someone who is socially threatened, who is young, does not have a job, sits home and waits for him to get sick, but for him it is a big step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u86	I would allow all young people to have the best possible job given their education, but we know that we have problems in this area in Slovenia. Not only in Slovenia, but elsewhere. Nor was our educational policy most appropriate when we were training for professions we do not need today, and we do not have the people we need. But the problem is broader, longer-term, and I will not say that this government alone is responsible for these problems, but quite a few governments in a row, as well as trade unions and our public opinion, because sometimes we do things the wrong way. We have already tried to make more flexible employment legislation, and unfortunately we have succeeded to a lesser extent than we would like to. The intervention measures are therefore, I understand them by putting out the fire or by reducing the consequences of natural disasters. It is right that we benefit from the resources available to us from European funds for youth employment, but this will not solve the problem. The question is how much more employment will result from these measures in the long term if we now employ about 5,000 young people to whom the contributions from this account will be paid. Then the question is whether the other 5,000 will be less employed because of whether there will be more. What we are missing in the first place is measures that will encourage the economy to make employment easier, even if this is not welcome. But for that time, we have a fund for unemployed people and we should make this part more flexible. Unfortunately, I always meet new employers looking for workers, but they don't get them. Work has to be worth it, but unemployment can't be worth it. Here I think we still have some important steps to take. When we introduce some intervention measures and think that we will solve problems, we often experience abuses, and almost always these abuses occur in various areas. If the same companies that are going to hire young people are going to bankruptcy, then the question is again whether they are going to come back or not. But if we change the legislation so that the economy works better, then these measures apply to everyone and they will all work easier. Above all, we need to take measures to make our economy globally more competitive so that they do not move businesses to other countries, such as Gorenje and a number of other companies, where it is easier to work where the cheaper workforce is. Once we have managed to improve legislation to such an extent in this area that employment will be more flexible and then less unemployed, then we will take really important steps forward. I want the measure to work well, although I have many concerns because I think they are incomplete, but above all, the economy wants measures to be able to work normally without financial incentives, so that they can get documentation more easily as they spread, so that they can get credit, so that our economy will also be able to compete globally. Only then will we be able to take a big step forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I also see an interest in the debate on Article 3 and the amendments tabled. I'm opening an application for debate. Six panellists reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u88	President, thank you very much for your word. Being unemployed is something I don't afford to any of my fellow citizens and fellow citizens. But it is one process, especially the worst thing about the sense of unemployment or the status of the unemployed person is this sense of unprofitability in society. The feeling that you are not useful, that no one needs you, is that feeling that affects each individual and individual extremely badly, does not motivate, you look for yourself. Above all, the sense of unemployment among young people who have never been on the labour market, that they already have this feeling at the beginning of their careers, that they are useless in this society, that they cannot contribute anything, but that one who seems to me to be a very poor traveler of some individual's life course. I have talked several times in the National Assembly about some policies, especially educational ones, countries that are successful and have extremely little youth unemployment, and I can say that my words were somehow very poor-hearing. The measures that we are taking today, the so-called intervention measures, are the patches on this huge wound that we are experiencing, but we have done nothing on the primary side that generates unemployment among young people. Today I have heard a few words about the dual school system, which our neighbours in Austria have, and it shows extremely good effects. Austria has one of the lowest youth unemployment rates at the expense of dual school policy. Of course, I wonder why in this government, even some of them earlier, we have not looked at this statistics in the market, in which we have the highest unemployment, which are those who are structurally unemployed, and what we are going to do with these structurally unemployed people on the market. If we look at professions mainly in sociology at this moment, which are extremely poorly employed, not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but in the international, global field, then I wonder why we are not reducing registration or reducing concessions for those studies where we find this unemployment. It's not like that. I didn't recognize those measures. I remember the words or I remember the opposition's actions towards the former minister's efforts when he tried to reduce the enrolment in and attacks the high school programmes. Is it not some preventive measure to follow that young generations are educated for jobs where they have a future, where we also have our own raw materials base, where Slovenia has some strategic advantages as a country? We're all talking about a rise in the wood industry. Let's ask ourselves how many miscreant technicians we have, how many losers we have, why we don't sign them in, why we don't further concession these professions there, and why we're giving a lot of funding for jobs where we're aware that people won't have these jobs. These are all the patches on the wound to that sphere where I don't see any logical conclusion. Are we essentially saving their teachers, professors, or are we saving some institutions? Should we be able to adapt the market situation to our graduates? Maybe it's some purely reverse logical relationship that I haven't recognized so far. Those are the questions. And it all points to our non-competitiveness in this part that we have structural unemployment, that at the moment, if Volkswagen decides to put here one line of some new car, he will ask us: "How many machine technicians, electric technicians, auto-sellers, how many auto-sellers do you have, how many of these professions do you have, why do you have a thousand 500 unemployed philosophers, 4 000 unemployed economists, 2 000 500 unemployed graduates, why do you have a thousand 500 unemployed sociologists, who has educated them, why have educated 20 years, how many of them are fictitiously registered, what you have done in the area of fictive entry when you know that there is, what is happening in this space? And then whoever's working today who hasn't had the opportunity to study you, who works for 500, 600 euros, who pay high taxes all the time, pays someone a 20-year study. And after twenty years, these graduates say, "Help me, the state to subsidise my job with some employer." However, when this unemployed person, who has worked for 20 years in the labour market, will be subsidised by the State. Is this about some kind of justice in the act of society? Didn't someone get the chance and make the wrong decision? All serious capitalist countries that have a good market economy with a high standard always look at the statistics, which are structurally unemployed and immediately put them into jobs that are currently employable. And people then in the course of their careers change jobs, go to other industries and are dynamic, especially we need to be dynamic. If we're dynamic, we'll be competitive. And a good economy, with high-quality professions, so exactly where we have a raw material base, this is that strategy, it's about top-of-the-line job manipulations. We can also develop a top-notch shoe industry further. We need to start building our brands, our brands that we haven't developed in 25 years. We haven't developed a single smart brand, except for some small family businesses, three, four, which we always list in here. And here's our basic problem, here's the big questions about this society that is currently unemployed. Making strategies on markets that we have not developed, developing new brands, new brands, where we have a raw material base. But we have to believe that, we have to believe in these professions and in this industry. We can't have a Chinese jacket on, but we can talk about how we're going to save Mura. We cannot have a Chinese plastic shoe made by children in China, but we cannot believe how we will save Pekko. It's one culture of the nation, it's one passion, it's that you believe in your fellow citizen, a fellow citizen. And this is a complete process. Today, what we're doing is some kind of patch on something when we close our eyes in front of ourselves. And this is one serious policy, this is a complete package of measures that will happen to young people. Telling their parents, not everyone can be enrolled in high school, everyone is talented for some profession to be in this profession. And there's a whole line of irregularities. However, the terminal is that someone is 30 years old, that he graduated, that a family had to educate him, that is, pay his study fees, and eventually, at 30 he is unhappy, unemployed. And who's to blame? Many times it is the fault of the parents, many times it is the fault of the process and many times it is also the fault of the intervention measures of a government that literally gives some silence to some institutions. Did any of the professors in different colleges take responsibility? I'll take it maybe in the next election or maybe in a year or six months, the doctor will take it when he makes a professional mistake. Did any of the professors take responsibility now? We have 3,000 unemployed of my graduates. What did we do, what did my institution do? Picking up money, having a whole bunch of fake students. Where are these people?Oh, my God! What will they say about the knowledge they were given, how the market evaluated them? The market is the one that evaluates it. The market values our price. It's a market economy. And the market is global today. We are in the 500 millionth process of Europe, where we have these possibilities, where we can find ourselves, where we can find our way. And what we're doing today is some kind of patch. I support him. Of course, we have to do something. We'll save some young unemployed people. But why do we keep our eyes closed to preventative matters that we don't solve? Why don't we cut college admissions that don't bring anything to this society? Why don't we do it, why don't we cut it? I am not talking about abolishing, I believe that we need different profiles in different socio-economic directions, which we cannot just evaluate economically. But that's too much, the relationships are totally broken, the people of God, they're totally broken!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I will limit myself to this bill only in the debate. I don't think we're keeping our eyes closed, but it's easy to start somewhere, or any incentive to hire young people is welcome. I think that this is a basic message of the content of what we are currently dealing with, so to speak, to encourage the employment of young people. We are now too limited in the debate to some financial consequences that can be presented in different ways, in one direction or another. Since it is simply not possible to calculate precisely, it is possible to stretch the interpretation in the debate and thus lose the essence of this intervention law. Once again, the incentive is in some way how much effect there will be, but it will show time. All I want to do is objectivize the figures for the public cash registers. We know that it has to be complemented by the principle of solidarity from the budget all the time, so there is no dilemma. As far as the medical department is concerned, we can calculate this differently. For example, if we take these 5,000, such as a framework assessment, to get a job like this, they are now either on social support or unemployed, or at home, and most of these are paid by basic health insurance, which currently amounts to €14. However, if you did get a job, even though the employer was exempt from contributions as an employee, they would pay for the contribution. With a thousand gross wages, it is then over €60, which means that 5,000 new employees would even benefit from the health department over €200,000. However, because it is not possible to calculate as accurately as they would have been employed in this way, or if some of them had passed from a fixed-term contract, but now they would have taken advantage of this opportunity and would have come into this second working relationship, then this effect would probably have somehow been eliminated. But there is no purpose or loss, nor profit in the health treasury, so I still think that to elaborate on this, it is not the weight of the argument on this, but in fact it is an incentive and such an effect we can expect. After all, the law also has a number of guardians, which is that it takes some time to be in the employment office, and the law itself is limited in time, so that I think there is no need to be afraid of negative effects, and the positive ones will certainly be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u92	I believe that very clear and strong incentives must be given at this time to solve one of the key structural problems we have in this country, and this is a question of youth unemployment and chronic lack of opportunities for them in our country. That is why I am absolutely behind the proposed measures, and I think for a long time one of those measures that has a real promise to adopt and begin to solve this problem. In this respect, I agree that this measure clearly shows where the priorities for this government and the government coalition are. I think it is also a very well-targeted measure. Look for a comparison. In the previous year, a step has been taken to gradually reduce corporate income tax under the heading of increasing competitiveness, which is expected to make the Slovenian economic environment more attractive for new investments. However, in the final analysis, the reduction in the tax burden on profits in companies resulted in those who made the profit having more available income from this profit, regardless of what they put it into. Of course, it is possible that the responsible owner, the responsible entrepreneur, committed more profits in his own hands to new investments, but in view of the overall situation, we can see that there is a greater likelihood that the increased available profit has spilled into his increased private consumption. On the other hand, this measure, on the other hand, exempts a young person under the age of 30 who is at the employment institution for at least three months from being given the opportunity, for an indefinite period of time, for the duration of the measure at least 24 months, as long as his employer is encouraged to exempt from the payment of contributions. Of course, it is not possible to overlook that the opposition is at this point stressing that it is a smart measure to support it, but there is a technical detail on which they sharpen their speech. A number of examples in practice so far could be found, and not least in the current functioning of the system, when we could rightly ask the same question as who pays. Who pays a tax reduction on the income of legal persons? In this respect, it can be very easy to conclude that this measure provides us with substantial, substantially more benefits and advantages, such as its costs and weaknesses. First of all, because at this point it is very unlikely that there will be any cost at all. We're talking about young people who don't go to a doctor much, we're talking about young people who won't be the cost of a pension in decades, on the other hand. That's why it's actually an operation that doesn't have a hypnotic cost. Moreover, it is also an operation that means investment. From the calculation made by Mr Jazbec and before him by Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, it is clear that, in fact, the revenue from this title will increase even if we exempt the payment of the employer's contribution, both to the health care and to the pension allowance. Above all, the long-term prospects for paying contributions to these people will increase, as they will finally gain their opportunities in the labour market because of their knowledge and experience and because they will become more employable in the future. Thus, the long-term increase in their employability and long-term ability to pay contributions to health and pension funds is strengthened. For a long time to insist that this is a cost and that interventions are not necessary in this respect, but rather that we wait for the market to do its work and that, hopefully, one day, a better time will come, in view of the opportunities of these people, it is unacceptable. I would like to know if the opposition would continue to say that this measure is worth at least the support if, on the other hand, there was a specific deficit behind this measure, which would result in compliance with the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. At that time, someone could calculate that the cost of investing in a young generation, a young generation without opportunity, is too great. Much has also been said today about education policy. I do not want to praise the current educational policy, but at the same time I think that man is the best in what he sees as the realization of his life potential. And if someone thinks that in life he will be a good sociologist or a philosopher or a humanist because he wants it, because this path represents the realization of his or her life's dreams, then I think it is necessary to allow such a person to be educated in a field where he can achieve the realization of his or her life's talents, his or her life's ambitions. Because no one prevented France from studying law. He could have been a better judge, I'll say, of his employment opportunities, and I'll go for the car driver. It's not. And I suggest we leave this choice to young people. Young people, however, are educated enough to know what is happening in today's world and that today, much more than in the past, they also take into account future employment opportunities when choosing a study. You know, when I decided to go to college, it was considered that the technique was completely perspectiveless in post-industrial Maribor. I believe that by activating the potentials of young people, which we will achieve just by finally starting to open up opportunities in this society, one of the keys to getting out of the crisis. But there's also a lot of talk about abuse. In some cases, when this country has already offered its hand to the economy to help people, let us remember the short-term measures or waiting for work, when we have seen that, in times of crisis, there are still companies that are capable of taking these measures, and I think that this country must respond more comprehensively and better to the issue of abuse. In an individual measure, I believe that this will not fully succeed. This measure is therefore, in my opinion, good, useful and worthy of all our support, even though it may be difficult for me to agree on a specific technical detail in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, MEPs and Members! The education structure in Slovenia is growing, so it is perfectly logical that young people want to be increasingly educated because their expectations of education are also linked to better pay for the work done. This is a logical process for me, and on the other hand, there is a general belief. If people in simple professions were better paid in manufacturing professions, they would also be better motivated to do this work. And I feel very depressed when I listen to some, I would say quite a lot of adhering moralists who are working in the public sector, who report that they are in the public sector. However, those employed in the public sector are also the most accurate and conscientious payers of all public cash. It would be difficult to talk about errors in the education system if, as discussed, the relationship between those who are focused on social science and humanities and those who are focused on science and technology is moving ahead in the first place. This is a pan-European well-known fact. The fact is that the lack of these students must also be linked to the global market, as well as to the departure of natural and technically educated people to those countries where they can offer better wages. I mean, I have already indicated, but once again, I will stress when the employer-employee relationship turns away from the fact that employers are only a cost, then the relationship and interest will change slightly. However, I would only point out this to my colleagues from the SDS, and from which party, when we discussed concessions in higher education, for which we have awarded concessions to higher education institutions. I want to know who the money is going to be for in the future. Public funds — for which higher education? Now a memorandum on the establishment of a new university is being circulated throughout the National Assembly. As far as humanistic education is concerned, there may be another detail. I don't know if anyone among you has read an excellent contribution from a top humanist, an anthropologist who has told her experience, which is not such a rare experience, to highly educated humanists who are employed by top-notch, high-tech companies, because humanistic knowledge is necessary for a vision of society of the future. But they hide their humanistic education from you sometimes because now it's a "shagger," so to speak, to be technically educated, perhaps even in a dual system. I would like to recall how we talked about deregulation of professions and about many things that have reduced the educational complexity. Now those who have previously advocated deregulation are now on the other bank and say that good expertise is also necessary. Surely the reform of vocational and vocational education is a necessity that awaits all European countries in order to attract more young people in these professions. At the same time, however, we are also talking about lifelong learning and adaptability to market requirements. But adaptability is significantly greater if you have a good general education. So much for what was said about social science and humanism. Maybe just another problem. We are very proud and very much stressing the percentage of downsizing in public administration and early retirement. But all of this is not about opening up jobs for young employees, for unemployed and young people educated. And that also makes the percentage of unemployed young people rise. Perhaps it would be good for those who, by means of social science and humanism, would go to look at the structure of the unemployed or first-time job seekers at employment institutions. Although all the needs are no longer coming forward, yet I know for Maribor that the engineering engineer is also looking for employment for months because this is related to the absorption capacity of our economy, or is it ready for this admission of highly educated people. Of course, investing in high education with multiple returns. Speaking of which, I am very much in favour of this law because it brings concrete measures – what is the intervention law? Intervention law is only an intervention in an area for a limited period of time, with limited resources. And that's what this law does. And why I say the Minister's success is great. Because the promotion of youth employment was originally meant only for those countries where youth unemployment was above 25% and the measure was directed up to the twenty-fifth year of age. We have a law before us that speaks about promoting youth employment by the age of 30 and thank God we do not yet have 25% youth unemployment, even in the eastern region is 22% or 24%, and data is changing now. But what convinced them was just a rapidly growing percentage of unemployed young people in 2012. We can minimize the measure, but that's not enough, but we said in a debate on Friday, and one measure on Friday, the other, the measure, and when it comes down to it, we save more unemployed people than we would if we didn't save them at all. In the end, I would only point out that if young people see perspectives even in the technical profession, they are employed, for example, to give the Maribor SERSH again, I have pointed to two world champions in robotics, and this is a high school technical direction. Why? Because they work well with the economy, because they identify themselves with success, they want to be successful and see a future perspective. It does not seem acceptable for young people to be treated in any way badly if they want to be successful, if they are looking for opportunities where they feel they will be able to realize their potential. However, I wonder who would have thought the way they used to be, which teacher was responsible for this because all his disciples did not get a job. Even the best doctor can't make sure that all his patients are cured. And in every profession it is. Even the best teacher cannot ensure that he has only good students and that everyone gets a job. Let us once accept that the diversity in society is great, that the abilities differ from us, and in politicians, that we are looking for ways out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica Franci Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u96	I have to react a little, because we've come back from some total unrealism. I have never humiliated or discredited humanities and social sciences. But I was talking about relationships. Look, Germany, when it had less than 30% of science in colleges, there was a crisis in Germany. There was a crisis, people wondered what was going on, and Germany, which has 150 years of top engineering, which has most of the biggest patents, since the invention of the Otto engine, via diesel engine, Wankel engine, etc. And relationships are broken. That's our problem. There are only 18% of natural sciences in Slovenia. That's the problem I'm talking about. I'm not talking about what you just said, and this is the total use of my speech I've had. But first you have to get in one car, drive 600 kilometers to Munich, you can go 150 kilometers to Graz, you can go to the nearby Magne, and look at how many sociologists from these colleges work over there. Almost no one's working. And on one occasion, when one humanist managed a breakthrough, I welcome that, but most people are unemployed. And that's not what Franz Breznik tells you or the SDS party, but the economy tells you. We don't need these people. Don't you hear? We don't need to! Don't educate them, don't waste the taxpayer's money, but reduce the entries because the ratios are broken. This tells you the economy, not the SDS party, not me. And once again, there's also a mistake. I used to be a student at this exact school of SERSH. I graduated from electrical engineering, I graduated from economics, and I'm still a graduate student at law school. I can tell you that I have some experience in social science and science. And I can talk. I worked in one Siemens for five years. I know how the system works. And this is what I'm talking about, some of my practical experiences that I'd like to bring in here -- to the National Assembly, so that young people will experience what I've experienced, that I've been appreciated as a young man, that I've had a good job, that I've earned good money, that I've had good capital. And since I have the capital, I speak heartily here. I don't need to bow to left options, not right options, but I'm talking about what money brings and what brings the price of each individual. And the price of an individual is a market, not an educational system. The education system is supposed to be the one who would raise your price to raise the level of your knowledge that would make you competitive on the market. At the moment, the market gives you to know, they're not good, it's too good, it's too low, put in those times of educational work, where there's a chance. And we can't put out the fire if it's too big. We have to prevent it from falling. This is all my theory I repeat here in the National Assembly. All this time. And I don't know why you're so avoiding it, why you attacked the former environmental minister like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u97	I'm following Mrs. Potter. Three minutes have just passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u98	I'll finish. I hope that we have cleared up this matter once, that we will begin to appreciate and that we will begin to realize what this market economy is, that the end of the planned economy, some abnormal planning for five years or ten years ahead, which does not have a real basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u99	Mr. Breznik, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u101	Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. The measure that promotes the employment of young people is certainly welcome and I support it. However, we must move from words to actions here and also provide adequate resources for the measures taken. Every right costs something, carries some expenses behind it, and it is right to show these expenses transparently. Article 148 of the Constitution provides that all expenditure on public expenditure must be covered by the budget. Therefore, according to my explanation, it is above what we have written in the law or what we will accept, if we do, the shadow of constitutional judgment. And it would be good if we supported the amendment that removes this shadow and somehow resolve this good measure that promotes the employment of young people, so that there is no possible complication. We all know what happened last year when a previous government took some anti-constitutional measures, but now this year this government has problems. Let's do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen to us next year. And a billion and a half this year, we're going to have a budget deficit. And this billion will be financed by a debt that will be largely covered by our craftsmen. Therefore, it would be right that perhaps within what we are already taking from their future, what we are pursuing today. Therefore, it should not be a problem to find these funds in the budget, and we should show it transparently. However, if this is not necessary because there is no additional expenditure, then I do not see any problem in writing as proposed in the amendment. I'd ask my friend Frangez, he's not here, who pays for a beer we didn't have yesterday, and he could hypothetically do it. To get out of this crisis, we need an average effort, we need an average government, we need an average job. And I'm glad we've got at least a few or a few hundred super-average moms. It is not Slovenia's problem that we have too many mothers who have 7 000 euros in wages and then compensation, the problem is that we have too few of those who have 3,000, 4 000, 5,000 euros in wages and then consequently compensations. This measure, which we are taking here, is somehow an average force, but on average we are not going to dig out of the state in which we are. Here, however, I would like to draw attention to another natural situation that I think would be wise to take into account in all further such changes, so that it would somehow make sense to introduce such changes with some nine-month period of application. Not to charge the children after a new bill or anything like that, we will still start the children, but it would still make sense to take such measures in view of this nine-month natural situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The secretary wanted the word. Here you go, Dr. Dark Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It seems to me that I owe you an answer to the Court of Auditors' initiative, which was sent to our Ministry on 9 July. The Court of Auditors' initiative was addressed to us because the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to oversee public finances, Mr Vizjak. In this letter, which was sent to us and on which we responded immediately the next day, we were asked in particular why we decided to be a target group for up to 30 years. The potential for abuse of employers and financial consequences were then exposed. If you allow me, I may present a part of the answer that we have given them, and we can also send it to you so that all Members will have it before you. In fact, with the figures on the number of unemployed persons, the comparison of June last year and this year, with these figures, we have shown that in fact the group that grew the most during this period is young between 25 and 29 years old. This has actually justified why it is appropriate to have this age limit for 30 years. You know that in the past we have taken many young people mainly as a target group up to 25 years old, and Eurostat still leads them that way, so we also have to apply our specifics because Slovenia has a tertiary education at the summit, and unfortunately in this crisis we are facing the fact that this proportion of young people is also the most growing at the rate of unemployment. That's what we showed with the data. As far as employers' abuse is concerned, we have also considered, after reflection and also the letter from the Court of Auditors, and have previously considered not wanting to encourage employers who are for a period of time to stop this employment and to hire them under this subsidy, so we have extended this period of one month of application to the employment agency for a period of three months. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is still meant that they should be employed for a period of two years, for an indefinite period of time. I've been playing with the data. About the number of fixed-term jobs and the average duration of fixed-term jobs in our country last year and there are very interesting data. If we look at the age group from 18 to 24 years of age, there were 37,000 employees for a certain period of time, the average duration of these jobs was only 9 months. If we look at the age group that is now interesting for this measure, which is 25 to 29 years old, there were 33 000 jobs last year, of which only 13 months were on average. We've been talking about 24 months with this law. This is based on existing data for a relatively long period of employers' employment, and we believe that those who have a real need to do so will have to decide, while the law provides that those who forgive earlier will have to pay all the contributions. So it seems to us that there are some reasonable restrictions within the law, even at the level of the employer, such employers, those who have not forgiven, those who do not have blocked accounts and those who are conscientiously paying salaries and contributions. At the same time, I think it is important that, unfortunately, too often in our country, measures aimed at some kind of benevolence go into some kind of abuse, so we will be keeping a close eye on what will happen with the number of inclusions. If there were a number that would have been through an assessment and could have been able to talk about substituting those jobs that have been for a certain period of time at a given time, they could also have intervened in the validity of the law, because what the law now says is that for jobs that would have been concluded from 1 November of this year to the end of the following year, this two-year subsidy is possible and therefore is more than a one-year period. If some enormous numbers were to be found to be no longer desirable, they could limit this duration if absolutely necessary. As far as the financial implications are concerned, I agree that transparency is particularly important in paying for public money. Here, however, I would point out that this is an intervention measure and this is not a measure that would have been taken in some normal situation. Above all, it must be seen to ensure that these young people are unemployed, and now we give them the opportunity to be employed. We therefore take into account in particular the situation as to what it would be like to be unemployed and now, if they were to be employed by employers and the contributions of the worker would be paid. If we look at it, because within our system it is also a key element of solidarity, we still find that I do not want to compare and expose individual categories now to look like it is against each other, but still farmers spend their whole lives paying less than these unemployed people, even if they pay only the employee's contributions. Similarly, from the point of view of health care, it is particularly important that these young people are unemployed, paid nothing in these cash registers or paid medically as citizens of €14 and pay substantially more here. Above all, it is important that young people have the opportunity to work, have two years of work experience, and from this will be a different option for their future. During this time of crisis, we must not, above all, allow ourselves a lost generation. That is why this led us primarily in the formulation of this solution in marriage. However, in order for this law to be subject to unconstitutionality, as it was eventually exposed, to be compared with certain articles of the Zujf Act, which was repealed by the Constitutional Court, there is absolutely no concern whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 3 and the amendments? If not, then we are closing the debate on Article 3. We have an additional Article 6 and an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? If not, I also conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this we interrupt this agenda item and also interrupt the 16th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue in half an hour, that is to say at 14.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u106	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled, dated 15 July 2013, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National List and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. For the vote 51, against 1 [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Since no amendments have been tabled, I am not interrupting the agenda item, but we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act as a matter of urgency. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on labour market intervention and parental protection as a matter of urgency. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 15 July 2013, which you received on the e-club. We have two amendments to Article 3. We turn first to the decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 3. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. You want mag. Andrej Vizjak's word on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u107	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that we cannot just burden the contribution of any category of beneficiaries, but we must clearly determine who is the payer of social security contributions. I agree with the government's action to make these closer to work because of the target group of young people, that is to say that we stimulate employers to employ young people up to 30 years of age for an indefinite period of time. They are exempt from the payment of contributions for both health and pension insurance. However, we need to say who pays for these contributions, because the gap that will arise in the health and pension bills is a gap that the state will have to cover anyway. The government itself says in its opinion that in 2012 20,000 young people were employed and that this action expects another 5,000 additional jobs. I am very happy if this means that many of these employers, even if they did hire a young person, whether or not this measure has been adopted, will work through this measure, which means that not only 5,000 or 7,000 beneficiaries of this new measure will be able to do so, but it can be close to 25,000. If there are 25,000 beneficiaries, this is approximately for some wage between the minimum and average wages of around 50 million on an annual basis from both cash registers. These are accounts that are very clear. Do not say who will settle this and we just want to write down the contributions to this settlement instead of the employer's state budget because of the transparency of this measure. We also had similar practice in the pension register when we set similar incentives for youth employment in the context of pension reform, up to 26 years of age. We have also written down that these contributions will be settled, not by the employer, but by the state budget. So I can't imagine how we're going to explain to these young people in a few decades, when they're going to retire, that they haven't been paid contributions for a period of time, because no one is going to pay them. The employer won't pay them because we forgive him, but we don't say who pays them. We therefore propose an amendment to settle these exempt contributions to the state budget. This seems to me to be in the light of some transparency of public finances necessary. The whole pension legislation is also based on the fact that pension and disability insurance rights are based on paid contributions based on an insurance principle, but now someone is exempt from contributions and again we have one category of rightholders who will not be fully compensated for their contributions. I don't think that's best. We support this measure by the Government, but at the same time we support this amendment to clearly determine who is the payer of these contributions, this is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I also ask in the light of the transparency of public finances to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In your own name? If not, then we shall proceed to the vote. We first vote on the SDS amendment to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 39. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition of members of the PS, SD, DL, DeSUS to Article 3. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments to Article 3. We are moving to a vote and a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 6. The amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. See, this transitional provision states that Article 3 shall apply from 1 November of this year and until 31 December 2014. This Article, however, provides that the employer shall be exempt from social security contributions for a young person up to the age of 30 for two years. If a person is employed on 10 November 2013, the State will only exempt him from contributions until 31 December 2014, because otherwise the article is no longer in force. This is said to be purely misleading that the employer is exempt from contributions for two years if the validity is tied to the end of next year. If an employer employs a young person by the age of 30 on 1 December of the following year, that is to say in 2014, the measure will only apply for one month, although someone will promise to hire him for two years in order to be exempt from payment for two years. He won't. See, this amendment regulates that those who are employed during this period are actually exempt from contributions for two years, because this is not evident in the article and the doctrine of the article. We want to make the matter more clear and, last but not least, not left to the interpretations of the diverse in the chain that this law will implement, such as various institutions for such and different insurance. This is one thing that our amendment contains. The other thing is that we extend the validity to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European This is said to have been the case for about two years, this measure encouraging the employment of young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? If he does not want to vote, we are voting on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 37 votes to 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Please, you have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Matjaž Han, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We, as the amendment's proponents, will once again table this amendment at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue today after the end of agenda item 15. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the Commission's 2012 report on the work on the surveillance of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2012 and confirmed it. Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members or their own name? If not, then we shall proceed to the vote. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. It's 82 votes against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rail Transport following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 11 July 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 42 votes against 38. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Since I see that this is not the wish, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 48, against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Before we go to the vote, does anyone want to vote on behalf of the Group of Members? Desus. Here you go, Mr. Jurša, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President, nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues! I must say that we have finally coordinated in the parliamentary group, just before we leave for the vote, and we have also reviewed some other penalties, the level of penalties, for a particular area which is also dealt with in some way by the proposal of the law. Hotels or not, we must acknowledge that the penalties for identical offences, for example compared to neighbouring Croatia, are significantly higher in our country, by now reintroducing this measure to take away vehicles for those offenders who commit this offence in two years. We would agree that this is for some offences, and that we should catch so-called "roaches" and that what is happening to us on our Slovenian roads is not happening to us. We also know how to react to one example. Of course, someone might have said at the time why the cops weren't there and they caught the offender. We try to keep all those who do stupid things somehow with great sanctions. In addition to those who do stupid things, we will in some way punish those who may not want to do stupid things, but it happens to them because it happens to them. That is why, after all, we have decided to vote on our own conscience in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain on their own behalf? Here you go, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that you missed me by accident before in reform measures, labour market reforms, but not by purpose. I checked in twice because I wanted to explain, and now I'm going to be on all three of them. Look, this is another primate that shows that we're instituting a very clever nonsense. This expression was introduced by Dr. Peter King. What does that mean? That means what it's about before. The viscous spoke, and that's what I'm talking about. We are adopting legislation that makes no sense; Mr Jurša has now said that we will not save this country by means of a penal policy. I'd like to explain my position on the psychosis of madness. Einstein said that the greatest definition of insanity is to do things the same way and expect different results. We work the same way all the time. Of course, I apologize to my fellow Member, it was not meant personally, to any Member. Maybe I was a little awkward. But it is true that we cannot be satisfied with the results of our work in this country. As for my personal blurry at my own doorstep, I will go up — you know why? Because I also admitted in my book the mistakes I made in running the company. In this country, however, we do not acknowledge that we have done wrong so far and that we should have done differently from now on. But at least now, let's take into account the coalition partner's proposal, and let's say that such penalties are for our citizens, today they're going to pay a higher vehicle registration tax, and it's pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u116	Anyone else in their own name? Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much again. I would like to make my proposal. This proposal is as follows. In fact, the correct, very good and fair thing to do is to pay all the penalties to be equally punished, according to the percentage of the revenues we have in our own budgets. Imagine someone getting a fine of 1,000 euros, and they have a salary of 500 or 550 euros or someone who pays 5,000 euros and pays a thousand euros in fines. So this whip isn't the same for everyone. And just to back up; from Ljutomer to Gornja Radgona, about 25 kilometers away, we have about 15 different limits. It is said that the driver who drives on this route really has to keep an eye on every traffic sign so that he does not experience this awkwardness, that he transports the speed allowed and thus deserves the appropriate punishment. Where the sidewalks in the settlements are arranged on the left and right sides, there is no problem, and if this is arranged on the whole route where the most traffic takes place. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us, and we will have to do much more in the field of regulating roads and sidewalks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Road Traffic Rules Act. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 July 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to Article 4. Would you like to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u119	The new Slovenia has tabled an amendment because it wants to relieve or that farmers would not have additional administrative work with these carriers, because they will certainly not cheat themselves. If the purpose of this carrier is to have a list of who is cutting, where this wood is cutting and where it is going, it seems only justified for concessionaires who are cutting in state forests, while for their own needs, especially on farms, we do not think that this is necessary. Therefore, in order to encourage farmers forecasting new, large taxes, we propose that you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the amendment tabled by New Slovenia. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. The vote was 13 to 66. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 11 and move on to the decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. Would you like a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. If carriers were only to be owned by private forest owners and cut for sale, they would still somehow agree to these penalties. However, since carriers are also for individuals cutting for their own consumption and for their own use, as well as the necessary carriers for forest ranges that do not grow on forest surfaces and are more than 10 centimeters thicker, we cannot possibly agree to such penalties as are laid down here by this law. With our amendment, we propose a substantial reduction in the penalty, since these penalties, which are envisaged, are several times higher than the cost or the value of the offence. For example, if a person drives wood, a cubic metre, worth 40 euros, he will be able to pay 300 euros in fines, especially because there is a provision in the law that a person who imposes a penalty may impose a higher penalty than the lowest penalty. We cannot agree to this and I think that this introduction of carriers and such high penalties is also a threat to those smaller forest owners who cut for their own consumption. If we compare this with another law, such as the penalty for transporting dangerous substances, where it may be a major threat to health and to the harm of others. If the carrier does not have a carrier with him, he shall pay thousands of euros as a legal person. This is abnormal compared with this law and the damage done in these offences. With this amendment, we reduce, substantially reduce, the penalties for these offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Jakob Presječnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. As early as Friday, I asked my colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment and then the Government at some proportionate level, which will be proportionate to the offence, to propose any other solution. We have already proposed our amendment before the Committee's hearing, but unfortunately it has not been adopted on the home labour body. For this reason, I reiterate that in the Group we will support the amendment of colleagues from the SDS and in the event that the Government considers that it is not correct, that it is not proportionate, that it prepares for the third reading an amendment that will enforce fines that will be proportionate to the offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment. There are many wishes in our own name. [[...]] Mr. Tanko wants to. Anyone else? Then you have the word Mr Jože Tanko and then Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I'm asking you what the penalty is if you stop someone without a driving licence on a road or a highway. She's almost gone. But if they get someone driving a forest range without a carrier, they'll pay up to 2,000 euros in fines. It should be noted here that a large tree used for heathing has only a branch that is 10 centimeters thicker than a branch — the remaining part of the cut. And with such a radical approach as you have now written down, it means that someone who cleans will clean up after themselves and accidentally forgets the transport document and will be stopped by the inspector, will also be able to pay 2,000 euros in fines. These are crazy punishments and are obviously aimed only at making rural life more difficult. This isn't about stealing, this is about forest owners who have their own forest to clean up after themselves. The only mistake they'll make is that they might forget a document that they could take it with. With such solutions as you now suggest, these things are impossible. I suggest you accept this amendment. I also agree that this matter could be structured differently because the forest owners who did not steal anything and the thieves are subject to the same penalty if we catch them. What has also been proposed by a colleague of the Presecnik is perfectly reasonable to structure a sentence according to the offence, whether or not you are the owner and so on. What you're suggesting isn't meant to be. I suggest you back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u126	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin and then Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. These carriers and dragon penalties for farmers, forest owners, remind me of my father’s story of how the postwar authorities after 1945 went after a farmer and with such punishments, similar to those of a farmer. In fact, it was so far away that they had such legislation that if a farmer gave his son some trees for the roof, they could seize the whole forest. Nevertheless, at the time some dedicated ones were able to trade wood — Styrian was sold to Croatia and so on. The current carrier and this is the fight against farmers, fair farmers. Those concessionaires, they'll be trading ahead anyway; they've now had profits, they'll be bribed forward and they'll be trading forward. This is the restaurant of the system that we had before independent Slovenia when the farmer was forest-owned and the forest economies were under the control of the Udba. So I'm here for this amendment, which puts things about the height of the sentence a little bit in a comparable relationship with others. But I am generally absolutely against this power, this left side, thus getting on farmers who don't spend night and day working, don't go on vacations, and now you're trying to destroy them in such a way that they'll pay draconian fines for their own trees and their own things. These are totalitarian measures and unfortunately you have this legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think it's a whole thing to look at. In about a month or a half, we will talk again about the debirocraticisation of Slovenia and we will talk a lot about how we adopt legislation that is anti-biocratic and so on. Now every farmer will have to write some papers again. You know what we were talking about here? Let's give people their hope back! I think it's necessary to build a country where people hope to live here normally. In a country where you just beat people up, you can't live normally and you can't hope and you're having a hard time. Look, from now on, we will pay 50, 70, 80 euros more for every vehicle registration. Is that hope? But that's not hope, that's hopelessness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u130	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u131	I'll support the amendment and please, let's all support it!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The vote will be explained by Mr Tomaž Lisec and then by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Support for this amendment is probably the last call to those who want to avoid new ownership of Slovenian forests. I think the government has started filling the state budget at the wrong ends, in this case with small farmers, all of this has been hidden under some traceability or introduction of European regulations into Slovenia's legal order. The punishments in this marriage are abnormal. With this amendment, we want to prevent this abnormally, to remind you of which the Legal and Legal Service has also warned that this is one of the extreme cases of how drastic punishments can be. These drastic penalties will be suffered mainly by those Slovenian farmers who are fighting for daily survival. Example: When a farmer takes a beech home from the forest, when he forgets his transporter home, he will pay between 300 and 2,000 euros in fines. Why up to 2,000 euros in fines? [[...]] The government has itself written down the law so that even a multiple of the lowest wages can be determined in a quick procedure, so the government will in fact allow for the possibility that pretty-eyed inspectors will punish farmers, whether they are their friends or not. In short, it is a new attempt to own Slovenian forests by larger state or parastatal institutions, but a poor Slovenian farmer. I believe that these penalties would be as high if one of the members of the coalition were given 100,000 euros for each of them, as one of the coalition members warned on the committee. So if a single log was worth 100,000 euros, I would understand for myself that penalties or fines are as high, but by no means do I come from practice and from the real world, no log is as expensive and no fine should be as high as it is in this law, so I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Micro Brutz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u135	Your Honor! It's not even about the left side getting back to the farmers or the Ustva or anything like that. This is a European directive, and we have already stated on the committee that this Europe is such as: it prescribes the size of cucumbers, and how bananas must be curved and other stupidities and, among other things, that the fi 10 centimeters log is no longer of value. And that's what farmers do for their vineyards, and he'll carry a plate if anything happens to him. I protested at the time and said that it was necessary to take a special look at the situation as it was. Every waste, a branch in the forest has a 10-centimeter diameter, and it's not some kind of shade. This law is the first step towards settling matters. But until we have a related information base with the tax administration, with the customs administration, which will also allow an immediate look at the amount of wood, in the scoping, in the identification of the owner, in the partial number and so on, this time this law will also not have such a 100 % effect. Today I will support this third reading, but we will all have to ask the Ministry together to make a discount on these thicknesses and penalties. Europe is also demanding such penalties, and we cannot pay the penalty in the same way as someone can pay in Switzerland or anywhere else. In this step, I will support this law, and then we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I still see the interest in explaining the voice. Mr Zvonko Lah raised his hand earlier and then Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, Mr. Brulc, after this implementation, you could support this amendment. In fact, all members of the committee and the heads of the parliamentary groups we have received the position of the Union of Forest Owners of Slovenia, the Agricultural-land chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Agricultural Unions, the Association of Representatives of the Agricultural Community of Slovenia, the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth until this law. Whoever read this could have realized that this marriage was over. As far as this amendment is concerned and punished. Often concessionaires give individuals or farmers or those who are non-farms to clean in the forests for their cutting. As has already been said, all these branches, the pitchers are over three inches. How can this man, who got through concessionaires who cut in state forests, have a transporter? This ends then, because then the owner or concessionaire should provide them with carriers. What a red tape. The position of these organisations, which I mentioned earlier, is also their position that already carriers will cause only additional costs and greater bureaucracy of forestry, nothing else. And here are also a number of cases where this control introduced by these carriers will fail. It's quite practical: if there's any cuts in the woods, which [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. This law came about because it is found that more than a million cubic metres of wood is cut; and it is black. Now he is trying to make some sort of order, and when he starts working on it, he begins to think about who he would forgive and what he would forgive. Well, that's why we need to arrange these carriers. In the third reading, however, the legislator will certainly go in the way that Brulc suggested to make a selection; that those who will carry less than 10 centimeters or perhaps here do not, of course, go so rigorously. A colleague earlier said that penalties could be increased, of course for those returnees, and this was also said in the debate itself by the Government. Those who repeatedly violate this law, who will repeatedly break without having carriers, may also be punished. If we want to settle – and I am sure that you, too in the opposition, want order to be made here, then we need to have some punishment. Of course I'm going against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The voice would also like to explain Mr Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u141	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! I also advocate that the area of trade in wood in Slovenia be regulated. We have also heard some known information that about a million cubic meters is wood, which is traded in black after Slovenia. Of course, this matter needs to be settled. However, it is not regulated in such a way as the proposal for a novel forest law. This is for me, I would say, an attack on a small farmer and in fact with this grave attack on the Slovenian countryside. I'd say that one million cubic feet of wood didn't move a small farmer on a small tractor trailer, they were big trucks and big traders, because we're talking about that amount. This law is explicitly directed against a Slovenian small farmer. If I look even more practically now, it is said that every small farmer will buy his own forestry scissors to measure his own branch, which he will put on the tractor there at the nearby stream as he cleans it. Let's really stand up for ourselves, so that the laws don't get too bureaucratic, too academic, but let them be life and operation. Penalties themselves: a very simple conversion is: the contents of the cargo according to the maximum penalty, a 40-fold coefficient is this coefficient relative to the value of the cargo itself if I take the maximum penalty. This is incomparable and completely lifeless. I suggest you support our amendment, which significantly reduces penalties for these small users.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We turn to the vote on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 40. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr. Zvonko Lah, do you want on behalf of the SDS Group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we will not support this law because we believe that the implementation of the EU Regulations of Slovenia could be otherwise regulated so that the Government by regulation can adopt such conditions so that these Regulations can enter into force. This law, which has been introduced after a reduced procedure, is unnecessary, introducing carriers in the way they have been introduced in this law only brings greater bureaucracy into forestry, that there are many unfinished things in this law that will prove to be a major problem, and this would have to be substantially different, as the profession says, both the Institute of Forests and individual experts, inspections, as well as representatives of farmers and foresters. This law was somehow adopted under some excuse that it was cut in every year or previous year, a million and 200 thousand cubic metres of wood, even going so far in the debate, that it was said from some Members that a million 200 thousand cubic metres of wood had been stolen, which additionally sounds like something had to be done, but according to the data of the Institute of Forests in 2011 was cut down significantly less wood illegally, less than 60,000 cubic metres, that in the past five years it had been cut as illegally less than 2% of all wood, these are official data of the Institute and therefore it would not be necessary to create such shouting and screaming, to introduce control also for those small farmers cutting wood for their consumption. The European Regulation does not stipulate that we must introduce control over the cutting of wood for our own consumption — nowhere — and that the quantity of this wood must also be monitored. We are these inventions ourselves, as colleague Lisec used to say, it is about other interests here because wood or forest is the natural wealth of Slovenia and are a variety of appetites for yet uncut, perfect forests that have so much and so much capital in their midst [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Therefore, we believe that it would be better for the Government to draw up a system law and eliminate all inconsistencies in this law. That's why we're gonna be this marriage. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Franz Bogovic will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u145	Amendment of the Law on Forests is urgently needed, essentially broader than the one presented here. As early as last year, a group was set up to adopt a system-wide amended Forest Law in 2014, which has to respond to many irregularities that have taken place in the last decades in Slovenian forests, and in recent years they have only graduated, to which the Slovenian public has become increasingly attentive. It is also true that certain amendments to the Slovenian legal order are needed in the field of traceability of timber due to the European directives, but I share the opinion of those who have already pointed out that, through the adoption of such a novel, we have now gone back to the limit of tolerance that is normal, with such amendments voted or undeclared amendments. We're talking about what's already been said here. We already have the traceability of the Slovenian year; the fact that the links are already made for Slovenian wood is already one of these things that allows traceability. It is true that the Court of Auditors and others find that there are deviations in this traffic, so it would probably be right to further strengthen this traceability with carriers in one part. However, because of the way we have now written down for virtually all wood, which is also for domestic consumption, and we have seasoned it with these disproportionate penalties, we have decided in the Slovenian People's Party that we will not support such novelties, and we think we have shown and proved that we can be more papal than the pope. Time will tell you what to do. There will be a lot of difficulties in implementing this law. The truth is that, to a large extent, it will employ the staff of the Institute for Forests to a large extent, even because of the already scarce resources available to them, as well as because of last year's unauthorized additional resources, as well as in the new budget rebalancing, this meant only pressure on this service. We have also tried at this stage of the adoption of the law, at least in this part of the sentence, to give some medium limit, which would also be the middle line between what was now in the amendment and government material, but according to our point of view, the ministry remained and persisted in too high penalties and also goes into too much detail for the carrier itself. Therefore, once again; on behalf of the Group of Members, we deny support for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u147	We have also decided in New Slovenia that we will not support this law, especially because two important amendments have not been adopted. So an amendment that would relieve the farmer of this carrier, which we believe is not necessary for its own use in this case, and also because the penalties are excessively high in relation to the gravity of the offence. This is exactly what the European Directive states that punishment must be proportionate to the gravity of the offence. Thus, it is not only the European directive that is responsible for us now inventing such severe penalties and measures, but we have raised them ourselves; we have exaggerated ourselves in this direction. If we say many times that we are really more papal than the pope, this is also true in this case. This is why New Slovenia will not support this law. Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service has also found that the amount of the penalty is disproportionate to the gravity of the offence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the amendments to this law, as it brings some positive changes, and this does not mean that we are fully and systematically satisfied with the law, because these amendments to the law will not yet resolve all problems and matters in the forest, especially in the forest sector. This law introduces the carrier as a document, as a basis of traceability mainly in private forests, where this has not been so far. This document is also the basis for the fees to be paid to that first buyer who also buys this wood or log. Far from restricting the export of refrigeration abroad, this carrier can only solve the relevant distribution systems of the forest-saw-forest-processing industry. Nor is it true that this carrier is attacking a small farmer, because from private forests there are only about 20 000 small farmers, 460 are private owners who are basically not engaged in any agricultural activity, and there of course we did not have traceability. We will support these changes, but, of course, we expect the Ministry to prepare additional measures in the area of forest economy, the timber processing industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who wants to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? If not, then I am opening an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf, because I see that there is more desire to explain the voice. Five Members or Members of Parliament have been notified. The first one has the word Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. If I had heard Mr Brulco and Mr Kavticnik correctly, the legislator or the proposer should have completed this law by the third reading and made it more, I would say, human and now we will be voting on the third reading. But Mr. Ficko said that the parliamentary group would support this victory, so I wouldn't say otherwise. That it is necessary to control those owners who are not farmers who do not cut for their own consumption, we also agree. But why do we then go so far as to introduce transporters also for wood cut on non-screwed surfaces, for our own consumption, for our own use, for our own use, for our own use, and so on; and with such penalties! Why, gentlemen? Is it because of some kind of higher interest? To point to those minor offenders, how much they paid and intimidated people, while trucks and truckers on many vehicles in the larger ones If you have read the position of these organizations, you can see that control will still not be real until the Forest Office controls the concessionaires, including the Agricultural Land Fund. [[...]] We only introduce carriers until the first buyer. What about the tracking? That's what you say, from the forest to the woodshed, from the forest to the first buyer, to the ramp? What about the tracking? And to determine what kind of wood they drive, customs officers and police officers will also be involved! It says here that not even every expert can decide what kind of wood it is, whether it's a customs officer or a police officer. It has been said that we are more papal than the pope. [[...]] This will not work in practice; it will not work in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! I'll vote my own way to the law. I think we have the last chance to do something normal in this House with regard to the Forest Act. There is much debate about wood industry, about forests in Slovenia, but what helps us all the debate if we finally make some political decisions that have no tail and no end. And the bill for this operation will be paid to a small farmer. I have said many times, that large farmers or concessionaries have always found their way and, despite this law, will always find the way to act in the way they did in the past, and we will force the small farmer to sell his forest in order to give up his day-to-day activities. There is a lot of nonsense in the law that makes this law completely impractical, I think, even impossible: from the size of the trunk to the size of the tractor trailer, when even the representatives of the ministry asked themselves what it means to keep the carrier for five years, which is complete madness, to not having any analysis of what this law will bring to the roads, to raise their consent to the construction of transporters in the woods, which is a repeat nonsense, to re-establishing some new bureaucratic momentum in this Slovenia, and to cause a lot of debate about when you tried to make the farmer look like a thief. I don't think a farmer's a thief, a farmer's a good one, and I think this marriage is going to have a story like that of a cadastral income debate. Sooner or later, we will have to meet again with this law, and sadly, when a number of small farmers will pay their fines because a country has invented some nonsense. So, fellows, I propose that we reject the law and give the Ministry of Agriculture a new opportunity to make a new law that will be more comprehensive, more complete and more realistic and where the penalties will be more proportionate, not those that perpetrate the small farmer from day to day. In short, I won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have a number of binding directives from the European Commission, the Council of Europe, which are actually forcing us to do something similar. I didn't want the most to have to pay the fines because we didn't do anything in this area. Second thing. The forest industry and all those who are seriously involved in the wood business welcome the matter and want the wood to have some traceability, proof of its origin. This is also something that will increase the competitiveness of our wood industry. We want a little more order in the forest, and this order also means that the carrier will be able to provide a starting point for the pursuit of black work, including other things. I would like to, and I don't think they're going to have a problem with the farmer's carrier, but they're probably going to have problems with the concessionaires, the commissioners, thieves and those who cut wood past the approved cuts. That's not true, it's not an attack on a small farmer, it's an attack on big anomalies in the woods. I vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I strongly oppose the adoption of this law because it is an abuse of the European directive, but it is a cover for the current authorities to go after the farmer to fight him in the manner of the former communist authorities. Those of us who grew up on farmers remember precisely such measures and the trembling of our parents when, under the cover of socialist transformation, the village always planned how to further dig up the Slovenian farmer. It's precisely this momentum behind this law, with all the measures you've tried to do so. This is not a fight against shoppers, they will shop ahead, it is a frustration of the spirit, compulsory surrender, it is horrendous to remind you of some of the jobs and manners and actions that have been committed in the history of Slovenia against the Slovenian farmer. From this city, of course, if you accept this, I call on Slovenian farmers to resist with all methods of civil disobedience against the intentions of the current government, so that the looted homeland will be restored to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u158	Explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u159	the shoulders of workers and farmers. [[...]] That's unacceptable. This is guided by such measures and by the spirit of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u160	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! By my vote against the proposal of this amendment, I want to help the coalition, because this is essentially, firstly, a confusing text, and secondly a confusing parliamentary procedure for the adoption of this law. My colleague Lah has already warned, and I add, it has been said that there will be an amendment in the third reading, that he will be the legislator – who this is, it is us! - fixed this really confusing text and now I am embarrassed and I think there is no other solution at this point than to reject this law, to work hard and make a new, better amendment to the law. I regret that some in this debate are abusing the European Union for this, and even to the Slovenian public you explain that the European Union dictates fines, penalties and so on. That's not true! This is a search for an external enemy. And I hear more and more in this Chamber that the European Union is our external enemy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to this abuse as soon as possible. I remember years ago when Croatia introduced a special permit for farmers who cut wood on the Slovenian side – but the cadastral municipality, for example, is Sv. Martin on the Mura — what nightmares farmers had to take their own parcels for wood! And now the Republic of Slovenia is introducing this. It is a pity that you rejected the amendment of New Slovenia, and it is a pity that you rejected the amendment of the SDS, which somehow eased those penalties, which are truly brutal, but now goes, it seems, this voting roller forward. So, I'm going to vote against this extremely bad marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u163	Well, Europe really isn't our enemy, it's our friend, and I don't doubt it if we're being told how big cucumbers we can put on the market, so it prescribes a fi 10 thick branch. But let's put this thing aside now. I think that under-law the Ministry will have to fix a lot of things, because I am still sure that the Slovenian Forest Institute is not completely free of butter, and that until we have on the log, not on the branch, on the log line code, with which we will follow the log, the abuses will be possible for so long. And there are foresters who get so much in their pockets from every cubit, and it goes not out of state forests, if I say so, but out of private; and that's the rule. Unfortunately this is the case, and this is the purpose of preventing the matter from happening further, and this is the first step. And there's still a lot of steps ahead of us to sort these things out, and there's going to be a lot of possible under-laws. I will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj has the floor and Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I can't support this marriage. For the first time because I think this is about penalties and the entire text about a policy of intimidation, especially a small farmer; the one who actually creates his own life or living conditions, including by agriculture and also by forestry Given that there have been many excuses and speeches today, what the European Commission has prescribed for us and what this regulation requires us to do. The Regulation of the European Union and of the European Commission does not prescribe any amounts, that is, the first knowledge. See Article 19, which deals with penalties which must be effective, proportionate and not destructive in any way, in fact to deter a farmer or anyone else from carrying out the activity itself. With these fines of up to EUR 2 000, the farmer and those who have the forest actually discourages and prevents him from even doing his job. With penalties, we prohibit entrepreneurship, we prohibit certain agricultural activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable! It is also unacceptable for us Members and Members to prohibit an activity by means of regulations, and to prohibit the conduct of an activity. As I said before, I will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you. I'll support the marriage. Politics today threatens not to intimidate people and small farmers, but politicians today. The punishments were said to be brutal. That whoever got him to break the law was brutal, probably. What about the one who's breaking? Then what is he? Excuse me! We're talking about people who are honest, and we're talking about people who aren't honest, who are breaking the law. That's what this is about. And now it is the brutal ones who want to make the matter fair and find out and find out, all of them, that more than a million and 200 thousand cubic metres disappear from our forests each year. And now it's the brutal one who wants to have order. I don't understand! We're not doing anything together here. Of course I'll support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I'll object to the law. In Slovenian criminal practice, there is no case of someone paying up to a hundred times as much as the value of what is under the offence. Here we have cases where someone is going to be, because they're going to bring something without some lousy document called a carrier, and it's going to be his, and someone is going to get it somewhere, and they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it, they're going to get it at 2,000, they're going to get it. This is a lot of annual income from some farms. And there are no such discriminatory measures in this legislative practice that we have. We don't have it. If, for example, such penalties were imposed in companies where workers' rights were violated, one would understand. There's no such punishment. For those who have not received salaries that have not been paid contributions, there is no responsible person, no employer has paid a tenth of the fine that he will pay here for a branch that will bring him. I must say, in this coalition, this healthy farmer has long since gone, otherwise we would not be prescribing such abnormal measures as you are now prescribing. At this point, you are only concerned with the amount of taxes and the level of penalties. And almost none of these measures, which you prescribe, hit, the city of Ljubljana, but all shot around. In short, we expect you to impose a sentence on a tomato that is more than 5 centimeters thick and similar to a fine for potatoes that will be more than 5 centimeters from the fie, and someone will dig it up and bring it home from the field. In short, these are further measures and cannot be supported or advocated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Another interest is to explain the voice. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote, and I'm asking you to stick to the fact that this is an explanation. The first one has the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, or I did not mean to call, but it seems to me that it is extremely important and urgent to say a few sentences. What's been happening to us in Parliament lately is a disaster. Every day a new tax comes to the table, a new penalty, and especially anything that burdens a small person, which burdens those who cannot survive in this country anyway. Today, when we talk about these penalties – this is absurd! If this were to be discussed in any European Parliament, it is likely that citizens and citizens would move this entire Parliament to a place where those sitting in such a parliament could be a little chilly. I think that's what this coalition needs. This coalition to sit together and start thinking about where her common sense is. How much longer are we gonna beat people on the head? How long? Please! On the one hand, we are talking about abnormal punishments for these small people who may have half a hectare of forest and will pay for this one stupid carrier who will not have it with them, a penalty that will be higher than the value of the entire half a hectare of forest! You're going to that extreme! It's intimidation, it's pressure on every individual, and it's unacceptable. My dears, where are those who have shared hundreds of millions of loans, where are these bankers? Where are their punishments? Which one of them was punished? Why didn't you prescribe punishment for them? Today we would not be here where we are, and the country would be different, and the country would not be missing a billion and more each year if that money came back from the bankers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Nor will I support the law because it does not save anything, but in some way criminalises our small farmers in the countryside and in some way punishes and intimidates them. We can't support such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I won't support the forest law myself. It's a remarkable attack on the countryside. If the government coalition had a desire to settle the most pressing issues in the country, then it would be necessary to go ahead and impose penalties on those offenders who have emptied the most Slovenian banks, those who have granted these unjustified loans. This would be a great reality, but not to interfere with this law in rural areas, and in fact to destroy the part of Slovenia that Slovenia has in its rural area. That's not how I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate has a word for him. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course I won't support this marriage. It's simple, why? Because I'm listening as much to the debate as I am to the explanations of pure stupidity. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber – and several other organisations have sent us, and it would be very good if Mr Kavtičnik listened to this when he spoke nonsense before – wrote that in Slovenia there was never an illegal cut of 1 million cubic metres of wood or even more. I don't know if Mr. Kavtičnik is moving what that is. This is about 36,000 trucks, a column of vehicles along both lanes along the highway from Kopra to Lendava. That's it. This means that the Slovenian forests would then be uprooted in a very short time. That's not even what this is about! We have official data, official data suggests that between 2007 and 2011, the average illegal amount in Slovenian forests has been diverted from eighty-eight thousand cubic metres of wood – significantly smaller amounts. And now let's put ourselves in the role of a simple ordinary man. The neighbors you all have, and those who don't live in the city, in the block, will tear down an apple in front of their house, which makes them a shadow or has become old, and then they will drive it a hundred yards down the road to a farmer who will burn it there — they need paper for that. If they don't have this paper, they're gonna pay for it. And if they don't like whoever's controlling them, they're gonna pay a hell of a high penalty. For a single tree that grows in a barren area! Of course, this is unacceptable, totally unacceptable and therefore I cannot vote in favour of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedure? Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. I explained my voice, and now my colleague Mate accuses me of speaking nonsense and is embezzling me. I think it would be wise to remind him that there is no controversy in explaining his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, I agree with you, but I must also say that today there have been quite a few controversial discussions between us in these explanations. That is how I remind all Members and Members that they are speaking about themselves in their explanations of vote, their thoughts and their reasons for their vote, not about other fellow Members and Members. Mag. Branko Grimes has a word and will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u181	Good-bye to all of you. The law states that the penalty should be the last choice – the ultimatums of war, as it is called. Of course, when all other resources are exhausted and constitutional proportionality criteria are met. This law, which is before us, cannot be supported for both reasons; for the first time, Slovenia is one of the most advanced countries, but this law sounds like we are defending the last five trees in Slovenia and it is obviously to pursue some entirely different goals, not those presented in the law itself. Instead of allowing Slovenian entrepreneurship to breathe with full lungs, to keep the wood here, it is immersed in giving it added value, things are being driven in such a way that it is ultimately tried with a completely disproportionate, obviously exaggerated criminal policy that will not cause anything good, and it will certainly lead to some personal tragedy. This is unacceptable and unacceptable and I reject such a policy in its entirety. This policy is directed at the Slovenian countryside, which is directed at those who maintain the Slovenian countryside, so it is directed at the even development of Slovenia as a country, as we all once wanted. All these are the reasons why this law must be rejected and found other solutions that will allow Slovenia to be rich and to be rich for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u182	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 38. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 24. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national language policy programme 2014-2018. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 July 2013 to sub-chapter 2.1.1. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to sub-chapter 2.2.1. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Lászlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's an amendment of editorial nature that's sort of coordinated. This text, which is now before you, follows the constitutional text, so it is completely identical with the terminology used in the constitution, whereas it was not originally there. So, we will support this amendment, and I hope everyone else will.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to 2.1.5. The amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposer under number 1 to subsection 2.1.6. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposal number 1 to subsection 2.1.6 becomes irrelevant. You want to explain your voice? Dr. Laszlo Gonch, then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. In fact, it is also an amendment of editorial nature. In particular, the content to which this amendment relates is covered by the next proposed amendment. So, it's unnecessary here, and that's why we need to delete this content here, and then this will be implemented in the next amendment. In short, this amendment is going this way to get the content settled in the next chapter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Social Democrats will support the proposal to delete Chapter 2.1.5 because this sub-chapter is meaningfully included in Sub-chapter 2.3 of the formal legal aspects of Slovenian language policy. If anyone wants to verify this, he will find the text in the supplementary motion for a resolution on pages 59 and 60. The fact is that the national communities, Hungarian and Italian, had a deadline for comments until 27th, and we have already dealt with the law or resolution on the Committee on 28th, and it has also been taken into account twice in the haste and it is now necessary to clear a matter of language. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. The vote on the amendment to subsection 2.1.5 shall take place. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to subsection 2.1.6. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Dr. Lászlo Göncz wants a word and then mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you again very much for your word. Well, this is the actual substantive amendment, which came on the basis of our finding that the consistency of the language policies of the national communities is not covered in the original text of the proposed resolution, but on the basis of coordination with the competent ministry, as well as with other factors in the debate in the National Assembly, the text is fully harmonised. I think that both the objectives and the effects are well set, and I would not explain this again now, because there was a lot of talk in the debate on the committees or in the National Assembly. In short, that I will not then comment on the possible next amendment, there are now two amendments proposed here, and the next one is exactly the same, which is proposed by the coalition, the difference is only in the title. We follow in this address, namely, the languages of indigenous national communities, Roma communities, other minorities and immigrants in the Republic of Slovenia, the content or form that has been explained in the context of the text so far. While, for reasons likely to be presented later, the coalition proposes another address. I will say this: we would like this amendment to be adopted, according to our assessment, it is more consistent and perhaps more consistent, but if you choose otherwise, the content will also not be affected, because the content is actually the same as that proposed by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SD mag Group. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats of this amendment will not support it. This is also a definition of the coalition because we believe that if we go to the text of the position of the entire resolution on language policy, this text is consistent with what we propose in the coalition amendment, but the text is included under the heading Minority Language and Immigrants, with the word "minority" being used as a reference and covering all the different legal categories of minority communities that exist in Slovenia after the constitution. I would therefore ask for attention; if you go to look, the content of both amendments is identical, the difference is only in the title. Since we have now placed the original address on the national communities, Italian and Hungarian, on the constitutional aspects of the formal legal aspects of Slovenian language policy, this space, which has been included in both communities, the constitutional minority, the indigenous national community in that part, I quote you, pages 59 and 60 – nothing material has been dropped. The text is only logically built on this principle, and thanks to the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, some other minority communities are now named for action. I therefore think that the text is actually better, the difference is in the title, so let me say again; the Social Democrats will reject this first amendment to subsection 2.1.6; we will vote against it, and we will vote in favour of the second amendment to the same sub-chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to subsection 2.1.6. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to subsection 2.2.3 Standardisation. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 21. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Audit Service for the revision of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported to the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE ROMANIAN STATUTE OF THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT, Kampala, 10. AND 11. June 2010 The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the Supervisory Board of the RTV Slovenia. Mag. On 26 June 2013, Marta Kos Marko informed the National Assembly that, in order to take over a new job abroad, she resigned from the post of Member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. At its 16th meeting, on 4 July 2013, the Commission presented a proposal for a decision to the Council for information. We are moving on to the debate of the Member of Parliament. I give the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, who was the only one who signed up for the debate. You're giving up the debate. So, I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission submitted the following decision in connection with Article 18, paragraph 3, and paragraph 4, of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for information to the National Assembly: Marta Kos Marko made a withdrawal declaration of 26 June 2013 and therefore, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, in relation to Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia terminates the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of Radio Television of Slovenia. The term of office shall expire on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I take it the council has made a decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Electronic Communications Council The draft decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the debate of the Member of Parliament. I give the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, who was the only one to sign up for the debate and I am also closing the debate because the debate is closed. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision calling it a member of the Electronic Communications Council, Matic Bitenc. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have a procedural procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. The Commission also adopted a decision on the discharge of two members of the Fiho Foundation. I would like to know why this item is not included on the agenda of the National Assembly, since, as a rule, all the mandated matters prepared for the meeting of the National Assembly shall be put on the agenda until the decision on the item is taken and voted on. I'd like to ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, I'm going to get an explanation by the end of this point. We are now moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency By letters dated 28 June 2013 and 2 July 2013, the Government proposed to appoint a mag as members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Primoža Pinoz, Primoža Damjanović, Mrs Vesno Stankovic Juricic and mag. Mojco Majich. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal for appointment here, mag. Mitji Mavka.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. As mentioned above, the Government has proposed to appoint mag candidates for the next six-year term as members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Compož Pinoz, Mr Primož Damjanović, Mrs Vesna Stankovic Juricic and mag. Mojita Majich. The Government submitted the proposal on the basis of a public assembly of candidates published in the Official Journal in mid-April. 13 candidates applied for this public call for tenders and the Government proposed the appointment of the four candidates. With this proposal, the Government follows the good practice so far of the composition of the Board of the Securities Market Agency, after which the Board of Agencies consists of four other members in addition to the President. Two of these are employed by the Securities Market Agency, which is mag. Pinosa and Mr Damjanović, two are experts who are proposed by the Government in the appointment. This is about Mrs. Vesno Stankovic and the Mag. Mojco Majich. All four of these candidates, in the opinion of the Government, represent very good, specific, skilled staff from the work of the Agency and we believe that they will receive support in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! We have before us one of the most important human resources decisions in this mandate, the appointment of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. In doing so, it is important to note the circumstances in which this is taking place, as the conflict on the open stage has already begun between coalition party leaders on human resources. The last in line is the public hearing of Lukšič and Virant. For serious disputes, the resignation of the President of the Supervisory Board of the Court, Mr Otmar Zorn, a member of the SD, who was appointed instead of the supervisor less than three months ago, that is, immediately at the beginning of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek's term of office. The Court is at this point until the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding, a key state institution that is watching over the management of more or less with 8 billion state assets, i.e. with all the national silver. In addition to management, the role of the Court of Human Resources is also important. Even before Zorn’s resignation, two members of the Human Resources Commission, Alenka Stanič and Arne Mislej, also resigned, suggesting that a severe battle for the theft of the century is taking place between SD and PS. Mr Zorn found, in his very short term, that he could not carry out his task as planned. At the time of his resignation, he explained more to various media outlets in which he accurately explained his step towards withdrawal. First of all, non-conformity with the type of personnel. The recruitment of stakeholders associated with certain policies, in particular key designations, non-compliance with OECD recommendations, lack of governance strategy and criteria in the management of state-owned companies, lack of transparency in governance, political involvement and what is being done is, in fact, considered to be a more wetlander matter than any serious management. With this, Mr Zorn has clearly confirmed the way in which this interesting coalition works, which is mainly concerned about what it will take for itself and its interest clan, not for the benefit of the country and the people. If I only recall the difficulties in appointing the supervisors of the Court, when the entire coalition has dealt with whether or not Jankovic's Zdenka Grozde Director of the Soda and whether Jankovic's Samo Lozej and Nives César are going to be the supervisor of the Soda or not, then there is probably no need to lose any more words. Others or other stakeholders were more tactful, but in principle it was the same thing. In addition, if we add that the coalition rejected both the Janša government's acts, which were the basis for a transparent and objective-bound management of the guidelines and strategy, and that, on the list of the government of Alenka Bratusek, 14 companies and one bank were imposed on Slovenia without a proper evaluation of the effects and consequences, then the conflict in the coalition is only about who would be more involved in the imprudent sale of state property. Before the government of Alenka Bratušek, the current president of the National Assembly, at the time of the enactment of the State Holding Act, and when the Janšev government prepared a strategy and guidelines, repeatedly said that it was a coalition for bigotry and that we were causing the theft of the century. The SD also arrogantly rejected the transparent management of state assets and the Court's investment policy. When the current coalition rejected both the Janša government's acts and supported its unwarranted proposal to sell state shares in companies, we experienced a cold shower when Lukšič, Erjavec and others said they would now support Alenka Bratušek's worse proposal than Janša's government proposal. The mockery of citizens is unprecedented! This government is trying very hard to make us sick. The only thing that matters to them is that they will be comforted by the lobby, and after that the government is worse than the government of Borut Pahor. The SD, even less to the coalition, does not fall to the point of thought to stop this doing. We oppose Alenka Bratušek's Human Resources Proposal for the Council of the Securities Market Agency in the SDS because, in our opinion, it is to implement exactly the same concept that Otmar Zorn gave up for the recruitment of interest groups associated with certain policies in general with key appointments. Such a staff regulator will not be a regulator, but an operator of the interests of individual lobbyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. We are moving on to the debate of Members. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u199	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe it's a good thing we're interfering with the past a little bit. If you remember, I signed that request for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding. Some of you have read that I'm Jankovic's, some of you. This was not the case, it was a principled position, my position, which I could not understand that the then coalition could not respect. Along with the mags. Alenko Bratušek was sitting in the working group and we advocated that of the nine members of the Supervisory Council it would be good for the opposition to feel as well as for the transparency of the procedures so that the position would have five members of the Supervisory Board and the opposition four. This could not be achieved, which was a relatively small requirement. Well, it happened that there was a request for a referendum and everything else, because we know what the breakup was and what was going on with those signatures and so on. But that doesn't matter right now. Do you know what matters at this point? We're doing the same thing as the last one, the same thing! It is good to recall a certain thought: "Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely." Undoubtedly, the current position can vote anything it wants because it has absolute power because it has sixty-six votes. But because the power is corrupt, the solutions are absolutely corrupt, and that is the problem with the functioning of this country. I think that if we want to come out of the crisis really quickly, we should agree here in Parliament that seven parliamentary parties are, each party should propose a proportional share or we should appoint a commission of seven members and we are looking unanimously for solutions. This is some kind of government of national unity that we now need, more than ever. I would say that this labelling, once on the left, on the other hand did not bring any good solutions and that a proposal worth considering would do. Of course, this will not be possible because we are not yet deep enough in bankruptcy. And we're going to be completely bankrupt, there's not going to be any more wage money against the new year unless we borrow on some American or other market, because the economy just doesn't create enough. And most things depend on trust in people, in the institutions of the system and in a way that would actually start to solve things in a consensual way, but they would slowly start to build trust. Now we can bet all we want from left and right, from front and back, the results are bad, and people don't believe us. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has been reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The Securities Market Agency is an institution that also stands by the Assembly. Given that the country is far from the largest individual owner, those who have voting rights in society’s assemblies have a wide range of important influences. We have also witnessed that the Securities Market Agency has seized voting rights in many companies and that, on the basis of this, many congregations have been realized differently from others. Given that, in the background of the staff appointment, which is actually ahead of us, this clientelistic struggle within the coalition is now more or less clear that Mr Luksic is attacking Minister Cufer, that Mr Virant has attacked Mr Luksic, and so on, that this is a highly interesting area of influence, which will be a strong area with whom voting rights will be given in the assemblies or not, whether the state will be taken or not, also have a strong impact on the fate of all the state assets now managed by the Court, and partly by Kad and some other companies, until it is transferred. In short, how the Board of the Securities Markets will be formed, and how it will be attributed to the voting rights of the Assembly, depends to a large extent on the fate of the State. In view of the fact that a key conflict in this coalition is being fought about who will sit in an institution that manages this property, it has also come to the fore for how much someone will sell or buy this property cheaply. These stakeholders, who are attached to individual parties to the government coalition, are key stakeholders, and this is a key conflict. Mr Weber knew this would happen a long time ago, so he also spoke of the theft of the century and of treason. Now that we have all these conflicts ahead of us, in fact, we can lively monitor this theft of centuries and great treason. In particular, because this coalition has deliberately broken the programme, that is to say, the governance strategy of state property and also the rejection of the guidelines, and it has not submitted any document itself, nor any of these documents, which would be better than the previous government's proposal. And that was said in public. This is the first to make this coalition consciously with bad proposals, incomplete proposals only so that these swamps, as Mr Zoran said, can be made to sell off state property just as those influential last lobbies do. I must say that such a proposal, which arises on such a weak basis as to manage state property and sell state property, is not, in fact, supported. Because everyone else's interests are at the forefront, not just to make it transparent and to get as much out of what's going to happen as possible. In fact, the interest is diametrically opposite. This is also seen in these decisions, which are linked, say, to the sale of Mercator. We lost several hundred million euros in a few months, and nothing happened to anyone. For one 10 cm or more, it will be 2,000 or up to 100,000 euros in fines. That's our present. This is also the approach of this coalition. In short, the proposal for the Human Resources Council of the Securities Market Agency, which emerged on this basis, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the proposer, Government?He is registered, proposing, the government has 15 minutes. Here you go, mag. Mitja Mavko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I promise I won't take the full 15 minutes. We very much agree with the debate held on the importance of the Securities Markets Authority Council. It's a very important organ. The Government has therefore taken this very important body's human resources to completion with all seriousness. A public invitation was issued in the Official Journal, as mentioned, to 13 candidates. Given that this agency is of exceptional importance, the law also provides for an appropriate level of consent required for the approval of the members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. It takes 46 votes. In today's debate, unfortunately, we have not heard one word about whether any of the proposed candidates would be lacking in terms of professional competence. Just because this agency has as much importance for the functioning of the capital market, financial markets in Slovenia, the government has tried and appointed, say, candidates from the interest cycle of the profession; the professions in this regard, as mentioned earlier, from the set of existing staff of the Securities Market Agency, one of the candidates is the deputy director, the other of the candidates is the assistant director of the Securities Market Agency, one of the candidates currently is the director of the Public Audit Agency and the other is the head of the corporate finance department in the international company. Therefore, all highly qualified candidates and from this point of view are pleased that, as a government, we can propose an expertly competent package of candidates for the Council of the Securities Market Agency, which we believe will be able to continue to take care of order in our financial and capital markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to appoint members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 477 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the President and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are, for the first time: mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Kurnjek, Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Mojca Prelesnik, Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for such a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Commission has been unanimously elected in the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members and Members shall be served four ballots in such a way that each Member shall come to the table of the President and declare his name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 477 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, each of the proposed candidates or candidates will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him or her is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 4:35 p.m. in 10 minutes and will last until 16.50 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 17.15, 25 minutes after the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u205	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. Continue with the interruption of the treatment of the point 24.c, this is the proposal for the appointment of members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Entitles Pinoze to be a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 July 2013. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid and 77 votes were valid. There were 50 votes in favour, 27 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. By way of majority of the votes of all Members, Pinoza shall be appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. We continue with the other candidate; the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Primož Damjanović as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 July 2013. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered. Two votes were invalid and 76 votes were valid. Fifty Members and Members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Primož Damjanović was appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency by a majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Vesna Stankovic Juricic as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 July 2013. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid and 77 votes were valid. 50 Members and Members voted against by 27 Members and Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Vesna Stankovic Juricic was appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency by a majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Mojce Majič as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 July 2013. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid and 77 votes were valid. There were 50 votes in favour, 27 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. Mojca Majič by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. I sincerely congratulate the elected members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency on their appointment and wish them a successful job. Before the end of this agenda item, I inform you that I have received a response from the Mandate-Volution Commission: item Determination of the nomination procedure for the appointment of two members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, Fiho, at the meeting of the working body of the Mandate-Volute Commission, is not yet concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Here you are, Mr. Jože Tanko. You have a procedural procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Resolution of Mr Matjaž Juhart and Mag. On 23 May, Vladimir Pegan was voted on by the Mandate-Electorial Commission at its 37th emergency session. With regard to the vote on these two members of the Fiho, the procedure on the Mandate-Electorial Commission is concluded and, until the decision of the National Assembly on discharge or the confirmation or non-approval of the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, no other procedure on this subject is possible. I do not understand why the matter has been going on for almost two months now, so that this decision is not decided by the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the meeting of the National Assembly. In line with current practice, this should only happen in a current session, which is said to have already taken place in the context of the May session, including the June sessions, now we have a July session, and we are not deciding on this proposal. In view of the fact that staff matters are also among the cases that can be dealt with at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we can also do so at an extraordinary meeting, but I believe that there is no need and that we should decide at the latest today whether to support the proposal for the resolution of both gentlemen or to reject the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. If the proposal is rejected, the invitation to tender or the new candidature procedure is not even necessary anymore, but there is no explanation for this proposal for almost two months, why it is not decided on. I propose that Members now, at this last regular meeting, we also decide whether to confirm or reject the decision of the Mandate-Election Commission on these two members of the Fich. There's no reason why things are stalling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In light of the foregoing, I conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the framework of the ordinary procedure. On Thursday, 11 July 2013, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedure at agenda 14? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I have, as a matter of procedure, requested again at the previous point in terms of mandate-holder matters, because the reply you wrote is not in line with the actual situation. I think it is unacceptable that any President so ignorantly treats those requiring procedural proposals. I wish without a doubt to know whether the procedure for the discharge of both candidates has been completed or not at the Mandate-Electorial Commission. According to the information provided by the President of the Commission on Elections at its 15th regular session, this is said to be 13 June, she unequivocally said that the discharge had been voted on. I ask again why this proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Vladimir Pegan and Mr Matjaž Juhart has not been processed in the National Assembly for two months. The procedure has been completed, the vote has been taken, Mr Han has proposed a vote on discharge and it has been voted on. This procedure must be completed by the National Assembly. There is no way that this will return to the Mandate-Electorial Commission and that there will be a re-voting on whether or not they will be resolved. This task must be carried out by the National Assembly at its plenary session. There are no games here, Madam President, because this is unworthy of the status of the National Assembly. Things must be completely clear, clear, and, as far as decisions are concerned, even clean. It's not like we're just going to clear out some interpretation with our left hand under the table, and then we're going to continue with the meeting of the National Assembly. I want a clear answer on when we will decide on this proposal by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which has been duly voted, at the meeting of the National Assembly. Not on the candidacy process, because it will or will not be, but on the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the discharge of these two members of the Council of Fich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Mag. Melita Zupevc wants procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President. In order for things to be clear and clear, I think it is appropriate that, in the form of a procedural answer, that you do not give me the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I respond to Mr Tank's request. If Mr Tanko had been – I would have said correctly why the procedure has been proceeding for two months already at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission; this is because Members and Members wanted to clear all the dilemmas relating to the appointment or resolution of these two members of the Fiho Council before the final decision is taken at the meeting of the National Assembly. You probably know that the Commission has given a certain opinion in order to prevent corruption, on the basis of which the members and members of the MVK have indeed decided that these two members, Mr Pegan and Mr Juhart, will be dissolved at the meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission. However, at the previous meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, before the end or conclusion of this item of the agenda, a procedural proposal was reached where it was once again proposed that this point should be terminated before the continuation of the procedure, which Mr Tanko rightly concluded earlier that no other procedure was possible until these two, namely Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan, were dissolved at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, Mr Tanko personally explicitly objected to the decision being taken at the previous meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to continue the procedure following the meeting of the National Assembly today. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. How? Mr. Tanko, do you have procedure again? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Wait a minute. Do you still want procedural? Look, you gave a procedural opinion, mag. The parishioner also submitted procedurally, so I can find out for myself that I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the absence of a proposal for a decision from the Council of State by the Commission, I was not able to bring the matter forward in respect of the point of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Matjaz Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I think we've come into some sort of mess that we can solve without a problem. You know that this appointment of Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan, as Mr Tanko and Mrs Melita Župevc said, has been taking place for two months. By making Members and Members not left or right options, we are not to blame for this. To make it clear that when we voted for these two gentlemen for the first time, the anti-corruption commission accused us of acting corruptly and that we were against what we voted for these two gentlemen. Then, on the basis of the recommendation of the anti-corruption commission, what you said to Jože, we resolved once again on the same Commission on the same Committee on Mandate-Voluntary, these two same gentlemen. Then, for the sake of the public speaking, they included all the legal professions of this Slovenia and found that, however, Members and Members did not make a mistake, that the error was elsewhere. That's why, Jože, you know, I made that procedural suggestion that – three days ago on the Mandate-Election Commission, because it lasted only an hour – due to the time dimension, the meeting would end in order to get another paper from the anti-corruption commission. That's the paper we got on the 15th. 7th and he's on the bench today. I propose so procedurally, because it is not possible under the Rules of Procedure to vote on these two gentlemen today so that what you said at the outset can be decided and given that we have an extraordinary meeting, we can do so in an extraordinary session. However, we need: for the first time, the position of the MVK, for the second time, the position of the College and for the third time the position of the National Assembly. I'm afraid that's impossible for today. How will I vote, I will tell you when the item is officially included in the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Meh also wanted to proceed on a procedural basis, simply to warn that we have already completed the point of the Mandate-Volution. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u214	Madam Vice President, I protest. Today we are dealing with material, the right point, which we did not get material and exactly no conditions to discuss. I suggest you stop and allow all Members and Members of Parliament, including those who have not been on the Commission of Mandate, that we have the information and that we can make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Of course, I've already completed the mandate-election point. We are ahead of the vote or decision on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. We're moving to the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service under the ordinary procedure. On Thursday, 11 July 2013, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled that you received on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Otherwise, we wanted to make two amendments, but then for technical reasons, we had to decide only that. This amendment, because it was not possible for the one about the height of the years to start the judicial service, this amendment speaks of what has already been regulated practically throughout Europe, but it is not yet with us, this is the transition of judges and prosecutors into the legal order. Let me remind you that this is a large part of Europe that has been regulated and that this has proved to be a major problem with us. The big problem is that judges and prosecutors are practically, for example, up to one day, by 24 hours serving as judges or prosecutors, they are familiar with such or other acts, documents, files, and so on. And the next day, they're lawyers. We had already had a well-known case of Mr Penk, who was still in time, I think a few hours of serving as a prosecutor, simply met with his future client, this is with Mr Zidar. Such cases are not admissible. We are also reminded of what we can say about disciplinary measures against judges and prosecutors. You have these in most European countries, they are present and they say, we have them foreseen, they say no. Why? Because this is impossible for the courts and the prosecutions because the individual who assesses that he could lose a judicial or prosecutorial service goes to law enforcement first. Therefore, once again, we feel it would be right to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! If I'm properly informed, which I'm not quite sure of, my thinking is as follows. We are trying to help ourselves with a football case that is very popular in Slovenia. We have a football team to send to the field. We have a playground, we have viewers, we even have the opposite team, but our team's players don't want to play, they're not motivated. They say they won't play. And if they're playing, they're playing to kill their own cars. If I'm properly informed, it's against the law of the judiciary and the judiciary. How will this law work? He'll be about as successful as our team was. That's why I think, and I've said this a couple of times today, we have to start doing things consensually, otherwise we kill each other naked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss the amendment currently under discussion, first of all to all those who were not present on the Committee, that a very in-depth debate on this issue has been held on the Committee, and in this debate, among others, the Government and the Minister, the Minister of Justice, pointed out that this provision is by no means legal in the Judicial Service Act. You can't regulate entry and restrictions on the profession of a lawyer in the Judicial Service Act. This provision, if any, falls under the law in the field of lawyers, the Law on Lawyers. Another time. It was pointed out that this regime could potentially be challenged by the constitutional right to free choice of profession. Third time. In fact, I still do not understand exactly what the SDS problem is. If the judge fails to do his job well and decides instead of disciplinary sanctions to get out of the judicial profession, the problem is solved in the judicial segment. The problem judge is no longer in court. If he goes to a private lawyer, a private activity where he performs a private profession in his own capacity, that is his problem. If people don't trust him, they won't come to him and hire his services. I don't know why a country like this has to be involved in what such a judge is going to do. And a fourth argument. Mr. Gorenak, you think it's a problem that this judge was familiar with the file before, and now he becomes a lawyer. Any lawyer who becomes a lawyer after the current procedure, as is the case all over the world when he becomes a lawyer, can get to know in detail any court record. So, even if he didn't get to know you before, he can get to know you later. There are many reasons why this amendment should not be supported and will not be supported by Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, would you like to discuss it again? You can, because you have a chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much. See if this doesn't hold up, what you've said now, I'll tell you through other laws. The Police Act doesn't say that a police officer shouldn't become a private investigator, but that's what the Detective Activity Act says. It's a different matter. There can't be a constitutionally controversial article, and then there's a controversial article, and there's one that forbids cops. A police officer who has no access to any police heavy or important data, to say the least, does a relatively simple business, but he can't be a detective for four years. And so if the police have no rights to work or to constitutional justice, then they probably won't. However, as far as the writings are concerned and so forth, the issue of ethical codes and all other matters, which we know what the questions are, whether they are respected or not, we need to be consistent here once and for all. If other European countries know such provisions, say Germany or Austria, then we can also introduce them into our legislation. I don't see any reason why we wouldn't do that, because this is going to go for the benefit of the judiciary itself and nothing else. If you look at some other important things, if you're the director of the research institute today, I don't know, I'm going to say now, in Gorenje Velenje, you will sign a competitive clause that will ban you from working for Simens for five or ten years, which is logical because these knowledge is being closed, which is valuable and so on. That is how our citizens invest in judges, absolutely invest in judges, give them a permanent mandate and so on, and see no reason to limit this right automatically the next day to go to lawyers. It's no big deal. Detectives are private at the time with the lawyers. But that's still true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the proposal for a law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, to consider the draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats and the National Gazette. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment we are proposing repeals the last sentence in paragraph 1 and re-imposes the provision that those persons who will be entitled to be exempt from the payment of social security contributions, despite the non-payment of contributions to pensions, disability, health insurance and other insurance, be entitled to the same amount of entitlements from those social insurance as if the employer’s contribution were paid. How do we base that? It is based on the fact that the measure taken by this intervention law is of an intervention nature and is replaced by two years, i.e. not more than 31. 12. 2014 and in some ways introduces positive discrimination against a particular group of people in Slovenia, which we consider to be more than justifiable, as we have seen the greatest increase in youth unemployment in Slovenia in the last period, which has previously been considered a rather exemplary example of countries with a relatively low youth unemployment rate. The second part points out that certain categories under our existing legislation are in some ways already positively discriminated against and do not pay a proportionate proportion of contributions. Thus, for example, if I exclude a category such as farmers, they may find that these young people who pay contributions from the minimum wage will, say, take the minimum wage, pay more than these beneficiary categories. With regard to pension insurance, this ratio is such that, for example, farmers on average pay 880 euros per year for a wider range of rights, while these people would pay a thousand 460 euros per year. Even more complicated is the issue of health insurance, we discussed for two hours, and there I explained that we have an unexplained difference in the amount of payments to the health department, the ratio is 1:10, and this is entirely unjustifiable, with those who are employed paying 2 000 400, those who are self-paid or in any other system being able to only 240 euros per year. However, the fact is that, in the event of the loss of these provisional incomes, the current pension law also provides that the missing funds between the payment of the insured and the need for the current payment of pensions are to be paid, or to be paid, by the budget. In a way, this has already been ensured. However, health contributions, as I say, are the first question that we have to ask ourselves, of course, is whether the differences we are facing are justified and, as a result, there is also a fall in contributions of 100 million at the annual level. Perhaps this, these young people we will offer them a job – I really hope that 5,000 will be paid into the budget and both cash registers, and in this way they will both be richer by 7.4 million. In short, we're going to get a lot more than we're going to give in some way. That is why we believe that it is actually an amendment that we are putting in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. I would respond to the amendment tabled, and to begin with, I find that it is either, for the first time, a misunderstanding of what we and I have wanted to say or, worse yet, a deception. Indeed, it does not matter that this is an intervention measure and it is clear that the differences in the payment of contributions will always be, at present and will continue. That is why we have a solidarity system, which we also support. But our amendment has not gone in any way to discuss the rights of those who will receive this measure, this is the true rights of young people. It is not a problem, of course, that they will be granted rights to the same extent as they would be paid into a pension or health allowance. In spite of the non-payment of contributions, the other categories are also granted equal rights. That wasn't our point. Our point was that the matter must be transparent and that the issue of transparency of public finances today is very large in the Slovenian space, and in this way we are further deepening it. The government says that this proposal has no financial implications. If that is true, then why is it a problem to write down, as we suggested with the SDS amendment? So that these contributions will be settled by the State. If that is not the case, I ask myself, ‘ Why are you young? Just young. Of course, they are a endangered category, of course they have a problem, but the endangered categories are others, and they are disabled, and they are long-term unemployed, and tomorrow there will be another third that we can say about, see, these are today the group that urgently needs the help of the country, and we will exempt them from paying contributions. Can you imagine doing this for more groups of people? What is happening today is an additional step towards destabilising both cash registers, pension registers and health checkbooks. As a result of this measure, this cashier will not be able to recover as much funds as he could. This will put pressure on all those who use these cash registers to reduce their pensions or, say, limit their health insurance rights. Let me get this over with. I hope that we have emphasised enough times that we support this measure. We agree that employers are rewarded with the fact that if they hire a unemployed young person, they do not have to pay their contributions. We believe that this is a good measure, a necessary measure and, as such, we strongly support it. At the same time, on the other hand, we expect this measure to be transparent, to know who will pay for these rights, which will not be paid for; that is precisely what we know. That these contributions will be paid by the State from the budget. If the Government’s explanation is correct, if it has not been misled, if it does not involve an attack on the pension and health allowance, if there is no less contribution, then why such manipulation also by the way you have submitted it with the amendment. What you wanted to do now, you wanted to create the original state. It is a complete misunderstanding or misleading before the Slovenian public and underestimating respected colleagues, who we have very nicely and extensively explained to you where we see the problem: not in promoting youth employment, not in freeing the payment of contributions, but only in making the public finances system even more untransparent and even more insurmountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u228	Your Honor! I am also joining the view that we are not at all opposed to, on the contrary, supporting measures that promote employment, particularly for young people, for example, and other vulnerable groups. That these are not empty words is also confirmed in the pension reform, where we have forgiven employers who employ unemployed young people up to the age of 26, half the payment of contributions in the first year and 30% of the payment of contributions in the second year, but we have clearly written that the missing contributions are paid by the state budget. It is also true what Mrs Meglič said in her explanation that different categories of people pay different contributions. Yeah. However, it would be unimaginable that someone today would be exempt from payment of contributions to the same extent of justice. For certain categories only, farmers have different contributions, one and the other have different contributions, but no one is by half exempt from contributions or completely, no one. There is no one today to forgive the payment of contributions to the expected scope of the rights. This would be the unimaginable that would begin to happen, and believe me, that the principles will be some logic; and not only that it will also undermine some concept of both cash registers. Both the health and pension registers are based on an insurance principle. That's what you say, you're insured for a certain amount of rights, so you or someone else is paying a premium. It's a typical insurance principle. And you can't have the same range of rights if you're forgiven for a bonus. It just doesn't work, it's the beginning of this system. That's one thing. Secondly, if the Government considers that certain categories need to be approached, that employers should be exempt from payment, then it is also right to take over this payment. Let me draw your attention to the pension fund that we have, or pension reform that we have unanimously adopted in this House. The definition of pension insurance states that the pension is a right derived from the insurance on the basis of the contributions paid. So, respectable, is it not a solution when a population is partially exempt from payment of contributions, contrary to this definition? For, on the one hand, we write and say that we will preserve the full range of rights and, on the other hand, we say that we do not have to pay full contributions to this extent of rights. I tell you, this undermines not only the transparency of public finances but also the fundamental principles of the functioning of both cash registers. Furthermore, the matter is not nearly as financial neutral or modest as the applicants state. I do not underestimate Members and Members that you can also count, I know this, and one simple calculation shows which is the following based on the information given by the Government. The government states that in 2012, when it said that there had been a record increase in the number of unemployed, especially among young people, 20,000 young people had been employed by the age of 30. Twenty thousand of them were employed by employers without this measure, and even then there was no pension reform, including without a reduced payment measure, such as contributions. That is to say, we can consider the employment of 20,000 people under the age of 30 to be a normal job, a process that takes time, regardless of measures. Thus, 20,000 young people have been employed. These young employers pay full contributions. We can probably consider that if this happened in 2012, because young people are just becoming, thank God, this would also happen in 2013 or 2014 and 2015, about 20,000 new employees up to 30 years old. If this measure is in force, please believe that not only 5,000 additional jobs will be paid, but all of these 25,000, the existing 20 coming, and these 5 additional ones will be paid without employers' contributions, which means a drop in the health allowance of between €10 and €12 million per year. I'm not talking about getting out of retirement. So, these 20,000, which would have been hired in 2014 anyway, and would have been paid for, will now not; and this is the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. If you think that 20 000 people who have been employed last year are enough, and we deny that in 2012 Slovenia recorded the highest increase in youth unemployment, we do not need such a measure. If you think the number is 20 thousand O.K. and that 20 thousand will be unhindered this year as well and that last year's number 20 thousand is okay, unfortunately, we have 28 thousand unemployed. I am talking about the fact that the measure is in a specific situation, in a situation where we have the highest rate of youth unemployment within the European Union. The European Commission, the OECD, in their studies, also calls on Member States to reduce labour costs for young people. This is one of the measures proposed and served by the Member States as a result of the situation of young people. So if we consider that nothing would happen, then it would be more ideal to let us have 20,000 employees and all pay you contributions, as you said, both the employer and the employer. However, we want this measure to employ more than 20,000 people, and we estimate that 5,000 will be employed, while we also give the guardian on the basis of a debate on the parental committee, that it is not only those who have been registered at the institution for one month, but three months, precisely because of the fact that there is no substitution of those who were previously employed by the individual employer for a certain period of time that they would not then do so. At the same time, in the debate that took place under this law, I have repeatedly explained that we will monitor closely so that there is no number where substitution would really be, because this is not the purpose of this law. When comparing financial consequences and inflows to pensions as well as health bills, it is always compared to what would happen if they were employees and those contributions were paid. These young people are not employed and it is therefore necessary to make a real comparison of the number and payments they pay for pension and health insurance as unemployed. Here's the deal. They pay nothing in pensions, especially if first-time job seekers who do not pay their contributions and do not have a financial compensation are paid 14 euros in health bills as citizens. So it's actually a plus, because now at least the employee's contributions will be paid and these are higher than in the case of contributions to a narrower coverage of farmers' insurance or a wider coverage for both pension and health care. But I agree, Mr Vizjak, that the ideal situation is when contributions are paid, when everything is as it should be. Unfortunately, however, the situation in this country is not the same as it would have liked to see young people's unemployment in particular, so this measure is specific as an incentive. Why we have also responded very clearly to the Court of Auditors by 30 years of age because, in fact, this group has recorded the greatest increase among all groups over the last period, even if we compare older people, this group is the most vulnerable. It is particularly vulnerable because it is also for young people who are at the time of the formation of the family, and I believe that the measure, even if we hire them – we will be very happy if we hire 5,000 new ones – but if we hire at least a few of them, it will be much better for these young people, for this country, than if we now argue about it because you know exactly what the problem is: at this point in time to provide money in a way that is precisely at this point in the budget, while sometimes it seems to me that in this debate, it is rather than wishing that the problem is that you have not proposed a measure; in Spiza maybe up to 30 years and that you have proposed only 50% of the benefits. I don't think it's about destabilizing the cash registers, it's about giving young people the opportunity and giving them the opportunity, they'll pay more than the unemployed and we'll all have more of it, including the pension and health bills, than if we don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u232	Dear Minister, you have begun your debate as if we were opposed to it. Not even close! I have underlined five times, and I now stress six times: we welcome this measure and I am very pleased that you have been so ambitious that you have proposed it. That's okay. The measure is good, it is said to be subsidised, I underline this word, the contribution of the employer to social security for this category. We're up for it. But, for God's sake, someone has to pay the contributions! But you cannot recognize one right, one exemption, and say that no one will pay for it, but justice goes. That's irresponsible, Your Honor. That's my obvious. We are in favour of increasing the number of young people's employment for an indefinite period, which is why, last year, not least, we have worked and adopted a lot of reforms, but things must also be clear and transparent as regards public finances. Listen, you can also do these young people a left-wing service, because they will pay for it. These people will be taxpayers, and they will have to pay what you give them today. I think it's better if you let me know who the contributor is. And the honourable Minister, with the amendment we have adopted, we have done nothing but say that these contributions, which employers should pay, pay the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as we did in the pension reform, because that is the only right thing. But we can't admit the right, we can't assign the payer, and I'm actually glad that you've attached my calculations to it. In fact, once again, if 20 000 people are hired without this measure, I agree with you, that is too little, we all want more and therefore it is right to take such measures. But if they were to be employed in one way or another 20 thousand, probably in small businesses — in which Telekom is still employed and in energy or in companies that do not feel so much crisis — they would hire them anyway. However, when this measure is on the table, they will hire, because they would hire anyway, but they will take advantage of this measure. Which means that if there was no measure and no payer, there would be a contribution to the cash register, but there will be no. And do not think to say that she will not have a medical cash register – there has been much debate about the health treasury – a lack of it. Because there will be fewer insurers who will pay their contributions in full, but only partially, they will benefit in the same way as before. That is why I am telling you that only for a health-care deficit is about 10 million euros, on the basis of your calculations. For if you add up 25,000 people and release them, but at the same time consider that for 5,000 people a lower contribution has been paid, you will reach the number 10 million. This is the last time your coalition colleague and I worked on the board. If you have this opportunity to afford such an additional deficit in the health treasury, then what and I don't even know how it is in line with the principle of pensioners, if you have to pay contributions for the right from the pension fund. [[...]] I don't know if that's in line with this principle. Justice will go, and contributions won't be paid. So if you will [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, then Mr. Bojan Starman and then Mr. Matevž Frangež and Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, Ramšak [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. I now propose to open the application circuit next time, because there is obviously still some interest. But speaking of encouraging young people, I am the first to put my hand in the fire to put my head aside for the employment of young people. Not because I do it for the campaign, but because as a young person I experience it every day, I live, and when I see the situation among my peers, I also realize that it is difficult. Even in the Slovenian Democratic Party with our amendment, it was not the intention of bullying or obstructing; even vice versa, we said we support these amendments, including the employment of young people, but we want more transparency. Who will cover these rights, contributions that will not come into the budget? Probably a budget — is it something else? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are only striving for more, if I say so, transparency. Today we have spoken and accepted a lot of so-called editorial amendments here, and in my opinion our amendment, which was adopted, could also be considered editorial. Why? Because he just says who drinks and who pays. Second, I would like to say that I have heard many times in the National Assembly in these five months: here I am sixteen, here I am fourteen, how many years. Perhaps it is also time for you to ask yourself, ‘ Is this your responsibility for this situation among young people? ’ There is a lot at systemic level in the area of employment, but there is also a lot on the education system. Mr Breznik had some good discussions today on the shortcomings of the educational system, and members of the coalition took you as nothing, that our education was excellent and that everyone was immediately employed. They didn't! Because no one knows what practice means. As I said before, our amendment is mainly editorial in nature, and on the other hand, I have been confused by your discussions about how bad we are, how bad we are in Europe and so on. If we are the worst in Europe, please tell us why we have received only €9 million out of €6 billion for the Youth Initiative. If we're so bad, please tell me! For the last time, the minister said that, but still, if we were so weak, if we had water running down our throats like that, one would expect not to get 9 million euros, but at least more. The amendment, which was previously adopted, we then saw quickly this pit of yours, your problems, disputes. I have to say, it's been a little tragic. But like I said, let's just define who drinks and who pays. For contributions that would otherwise be paid, let us tell you who will cover this loss. We are only advocating transparency, but we know anyway that transparency to the left governments does not mean much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very much in favour of this law, promoting the employment of young people. I think he's here too late. It could even be even more encouraging than in this form to exempt employers from the payment of contributions to disability and health insurance. I have already proposed many times that it would be possible to systematically save some industry in the country, including some labour intensive industry, if the country gave up its jobs, but would remain jobs, and some of the people who would work to create new value would not. However, I do not understand why this is simply not resolved and does not do so in practical terms, so in the accounts of the system there is always a very simple option to make this simple calculation, the employer pays the appropriate cash registers and requires a refund from the Ministry of Labour, the family and also the Ministry of Labour will have a good excuse for any refunding of the funds from the European Union that you have received. [[...]] If not, the matter is under pressure and I don't think it's a problem to agree here when no one is opposed to the content, no one is opposed to the matter. Why should it not be technically regulated in such a way that it is clear that it will be transparent and that it will also be feasible in all programmes that will not need to be rectified? The matter is so simple, we have it in practice in many cases, and it would be okay if the other part were paid in part by the State. So here we're talking 24,5 and maybe someone thought that there would be no need to pay contributions to young people for disability and healthcare. But we know that the employer pays, I don't know, sometimes it was about 16.5 to these addresses, and from gross personal income it goes 24.9 for these purposes – I don't know if I put a dime up there. And that's not what the state's paying for. A lot of people are gonna think they're paying you, too. The state only helps in this area. I wouldn't mind if I did this part, just plainly: the billing and the refund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u238	First time. This measure clearly shows the priority of anti-crisis policy; it must be for young people. Young people have long and increasingly structural problem number 1; because they do not have the opportunity, because they do not have the opportunity, they are becoming increasingly long-term exclusion from the labour market and this is becoming an increasingly long-term problem. I'm glad we're dealing with this with smart measures. A young person less than 30 years of age who has been enrolled in the unemployment register at the employment institution for at least three months will be exempted from paying social security contributions to the employer who will be employed for an indefinite period of time for the duration of the measure for at least 24 months. This is one of the key incentives to move youth employment from a dead point. Another time. This is a targeted measure. Many in this Chamber are allies of various tax reliefs, reducing tax burdens. Where is the aim of these tax burdens? As a rule, they are poured only into increased private consumption of those who are exempt or reduced. Here we are reducing the burden of someone hiring a young man, giving him the opportunity and that this young man will also start paying for his pension and health insurance. In that part of the contributions that fall on the employee. In previous discussions, I am sorry that Mr Visiak, before we had a rich debate in the National Assembly, was not there, but we have talked about this much, and we have also empirically shown that health and pension registers are for the better. If I continue, perhaps in any of the discussions one of the opposition MPs has shown where the problem is. She began to wonder why it was young, why not some other vulnerable group. I am sure that also because it is young that the promise of the greatest multiplicity is true. They have the greatest need today; they create a family, they want to create a home, and they can, once they have a safe shelter of employment, also run the whole economy. There is also something about the support that the state has chosen from Anja Kopač Mrak, the Prime Minister of this government, in Brussels. Why has Slovenia failed to obtain more funding for youth employment? Because according to the criteria on the table, Slovenia did not actually belong to any money. That is why €10 million is for the employment of young people. The success of Anja Kopač Dark and this government. It is a temporary measure, with the amendment we have already resolved today the issue that reduces the attractiveness of this measure for abuses. However, I believe that this measure will also show what is reflected in the incentives for self-employment. There statistics show that 70% of self-employed people remain self-employed after the end of the incentive period. I sincerely hope so in this case. That is why all those who want the good in this country, all those who support the annual funding of €1.5 billion to the pension fund for another generation, think that it is time to give something to young people in this country; one incentive to come to the labour market and get an opportunity on it. I therefore call on everyone: vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u240	Well done, Mr. Franzege. But I don't know who you were talking to. Who are you convincing that this measure is necessary? Us? We're backing him up! No matter how you say you're having trouble believing us and making another target group. No, we support him. We support this measure. Our reservation is only one thing: yes, if this measure costs something, let's pay it. However, not to recognize the right, we do not determine the payer, the payer will come, sooner or later, because this hole will have to be repaired in the health treasury, but the payers will be others, possibly even more vulnerable groups. If it is your government, if this Parliament decides to support it, I will gladly press "for", but let us also identify the payer of this support for young people. Mr. Frangež, it is irresponsible for young people to place the burdens of today's day on future generations, as you do with this law. This, if you don't define contributions, puts the cashier's problem in the future and young people will fix it in the future. That's not fair. This is putting the burden on future generations by taking the measures you like today. It's not right, it's not fair and it's not fair and it's not transparent, the visa of public finances. I think a lot of public finances have gone into trouble because of a bunch of holes like this. This can be a precedent, tomorrow we can like to one other category, we will adopt a similar law and so on. Sir, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and personally, I support this measure. But all I want is to know who is the payer of these contributions and nothing else. Dear Mr Frangež, I repeat to you because you abused and said that when a broad debate took place, I was gone. The broad debate on this subject took place in the late evenings of the committee. Today, however, I was in the State Council because I had to present to the competent committee a request for an extraordinary meeting tomorrow. I have been in this House and I cannot be, but physically I cannot be at two ends at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u241	Mrs Romana Tomc asked for the replica and she has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. I recognized myself in the part where colleague Frangež spoke about the opposition MP, given that I was the only one who was discussing it, I believe that he meant me, but I'm afraid he got me very wrong. He understood very badly because you pointed out that I began to wonder in my debate why it was young. That's right. Why are you young? But not for any reason to challenge this measure — on the contrary! We have all stressed several times, and we will probably have to do several more times, because on the other hand, you will always point out that we are somehow against this measure. That's not true. We're not against this measure. But, Mr. Frangež, why not just young people, why not this logic, explained by the Minister, that the exemption of contributions would lead to new employment, and this would continue to make more contributions to all the cash registers, but why not then use this logic on all the unemployed? However, when they are employed, they will bring more to the pension and health allowance. So there is no reason not to exempt them from the payment of their contributions. That logic of yours, unfortunately, does not hold. Once again: the difference between tax reliefs and benefits in the field of contributions is very important, as the tax is a completely different duty than the contribution, the contribution is a benefit for which a certain person receives a health insurance is a pension insurance. He's got some rights from this address, and someone else, if not this one, has to pay for these rights: you want or you don't want to, admit it or don't admit it. Our solidarity system is directed so that someone pays for these rights. Probably, though, it is very difficult for the government to admit or fear that someone would pay for it and want to confuse it with the kind of dictatorship he is now interpreting. What my colleague Starman mentioned earlier is precisely the way it is now established in the ZPIZ-2, which we have recently adopted. The picture is quite clear: you pay, you enforce, and you get the subsidy back, or whatever we call it. In addition, what Mr Starman has pointed out is many ways and programmes, and how to bring this money back to the country from the European Union's resources. In short, once again, we support this measure, we are very in favour, but we want it to be transparent to know who pays it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I note that we have five more panellists to discuss, and then, if necessary, I will open the debate if necessary. In order to list: Mrs Jeraj, Mrs Ramšak, Mag. Vogrin, Mr. Potočnik and Mag. Spread out. The first word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that we want good in the SDS, too, for young people in this country, but these young people are young today, and they will be old tomorrow, and they will pay for what we accept today. Youth unemployment is a problem, and youth employment is a problem for a certain period of time. We are all in favour of doing something in this area to take a step forward. It has already been mentioned a solution which is in the PPIZ-2, where it is clear that this pays the budget. My predecessors said how this is happening: so the employer pays, and then the holder asks for a refund. I would like to know how many employers are using this measure. I am sure, given that there is still a new measure, that maybe the right analysis is not yet in place, because it is practically valid for a few months, but I am sure it has effects and that there may have been a step forward and maybe we should wait to see how this is going. Some of you said that we probably have problems that we did not propose such a measure – we have no problem because we proposed the measure in PIZ-2. Indeed, your pension reform has been a similar measure, but it is more transparent and like any measure that you give a person a right should be: to tell who will pay for this right. I still estimate that the problem will be whether a young person will be in the institution for one month or three months. Don't worry that employers can find options, and you don't have to be the one who doesn't know what kind of wizard to figure it out, how you're gonna do it, because they're already doing it. You said you'd be keeping an eye on him. In its letter, the Court of Auditors pointed out that there is no place to live and that the proposal for a law for that time, i.e. the timing of the incentive, does not define the control over the implementation of the measure. This means that we are once again funding something that we will not control or monitor poorly, just as we have controlled subsidised working hours, where abuses have occurred and so on. Just as the Court of Auditors reminds me that they will be financial, what you say will be the financial consequences of this measure only positive for the budget and employers. However, the medical bills will have to cover the possible costs of health care for these persons, even though the employer's contributions will not be paid for them and the pensioner's pension will also pay pensions for a period for which the employer and he will not be paid any other contributions. This young man is about 40 years from now coming to the STIZ: "Calculate my pension." They're gonna say, "You're gonna be doing a pretty good job for two more years because you don't have paid contributions in two years, or you're gonna pay them now, or you're gonna have a lower pension." Well, today we can say it's not true. Remember the discussion at ZPIZ about how we discussed who paid the contributions and when no contributions were paid — military service and so on — what we discussed. The Court of Auditors also points out where you have the number, where the assessment that the measure will increase the number of young people up to the age of 30 for an indefinite period, from about 2 000 to 7 000. And according to their assessment, there is a reasonable risk, remember what we have heard about the justified risks, that the form of employment on which the employer will come to the proposed incentive will pass to a notable extent to young people up to the age of 30, who are not currently unemployed, but someone is paying contributions for them today. It's a thing we've been alerting ourselves to. What else does the Court of Auditors say? Two audit reports on the analysis of the impact of the rules and an audit report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of certain measures to preserve existing jobs and promote employment have been issued in recent years. They estimate that if the Ministry had read this, they would not have taken such measures and suggests that both documents should be reviewed or that they have different data or other analyses to say anything about them. The bill doesn't say anything about that. With the law we will impose new burdens, we will recharge already such an empty pension allowance, a health allowance that we must add to it – you know that the debate is ongoing that we will increase our contribution rates, that our medical bills will not collapse, and so on can happen to us here. As we have said, we support the proposal, but we suggest that we set it up, that it be controlled, and that we determine who will be the payer of the rights we give by law, because otherwise we are putting some burden on someone in the future and we are avoiding it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Since this meeting is also on its way to the end, I would procedurally suggest that we stop discussing it, because we are now discussing the law and we have only an amendment before us. I do not want those young people who are in this country and who have not fled abroad to begin fleeing abroad with this debate. If we don't know each other in some way and we're fighting right now, I'm sorry about the shadow address. In the end, he'll pay either the budget or pay the agency or anyone will pay. We'll put it in another pocket. I agree here with what Andrej Vizjak said, but we are in a situation where I think this will help young people in any case. I would suggest, respected and respected, given that we support all the laws with minor differences and what the Minister has proposed that we stop discussing that these young people will not somehow escape from Slovenia. Because what we are doing now to dig into SDS trenches and SD Positive Slovenia is this moment without connection. I propose we go to the vote, we vote. You know why this amendment has been tabled once again; because the DeSUS members understood that there would be less money in the pension register and there was no debate on this matter. I suggest that if there is power, we vote again and confirm the law that I think will benefit young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Now it's your turn. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] I just wanted to say who's still on the table, regarding your procedural proposal, Mr Han, and put it to a vote. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I agree with what Mr. Han said. In fact, all in this room agree that young people will have a special relief in order to be more quickly employed. We agree that young people are actually having trouble getting their first job today, and we actually agree that this law is going in the right direction. It is also very important to know who will pay for what will not actually be paid. For this reason, I propose a procedural proposal to withdraw the amendment that you have tabled and which does not actually allow for an immediate vote and that we are actually still discussing this amendment to withdraw and then move on without any discussion to a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you very much. In the light of two procedural proposals, I should like to say, in the light of Mr Matjaž Han's first procedural proposal. In view of the fact that we have only 1 hour and 38 minutes left at this point, and given that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set out in point 5 provide that together we can decide that the National Assembly may decide, on a proposal from the President or a Member, that the speaker may discuss the same matter only once. This means that everyone would only discuss it once from now on, it would be possible if we voted on it. But now, given the time available, I cannot limit the debate. I'm not allowed to do that. However, each of the panellists declared may also object to the adjournment of the debate. That's possible. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u250	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, my fellow Members and colleagues! I believe it would answer someone to close the debate now. Look, you don't want to hear that the Slovenian Democratic Party supports this measure that is proposed. However, we do not support your amendment, by which you want to destroy the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If anyone understands this measure, I certainly understand it, Mr Han, let me finish my debate, and I did not interrupt your debate myself. [[...]] Because I have a single unemployed daughter who meets the conditions, for example, to enforce an active employment policy in this measure. But what does it mean if the employer takes advantage of this measure? This means that the employer will be exempt from paying social, health and pension benefits. On the other hand, it means that no one will cover for my daughter the months she'll be employed for pension and disability insurance. This means a lower base for the calculation of the pension. That's exactly what it means! This measure can also be compared to one measure that was once in the past, if you remember when we had some of the benefits of working time, and the ministries did not pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. Since no one then defined that the State had to cover these costs, there would also be lower pensions under this heading. I just want to warn you here, honourable coalition Members and Members, do not do this, we also support youth employment measures, this is a big problem, especially for those who have been in the institution for years and years, and the institution, even when they are involved in an active employment policy programme, will not find jobs. I hope that these young people today will have the opportunity to do so, but without the amendment proposed by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, in conjunction with the amendment tabled to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps it would be good for us to look into the past a little bit. Today we are taking an intervention measure, and now, if we look at history, if we don't go into 1920 and into the next crisis that followed, let's look at 2009. In 2009, the Slovenian Government, however, adopted a similar intervention measure. So, at the time, businesses were drastically reduced in work and, in order not to forgive, we paid the so-called waiting for work, the workers were home and the companies got the money. Dozens not to say hundreds of millions went by. This was one of the intervention measures, and they followed them so that I wouldn't count them all now because it would be too long. What is the result of these intervention measures? Even greater economic stagnation, greater unemployment, greater public debt and so on. You know, sometimes it's good to read something. All intervention measures, in principle, by almost all governments, the Japanese government did so in 1990, brought an even greater recession and depression. That is why, in principle, I am against such measures in one way or another, but if so, then it would be really good to determine the source from where we are going to pay for it. So what country are we again? And then I hear here, because it doesn't matter who pays: the budget or one or the other cashiers It's not true! [[...]] You know who's gonna pay? Citizens! With higher taxes, higher public debt, a loss of hope and an ever-increasing depression. Look what the coalition MP, my colleague, said to me, I'm not going to say because I didn't ask him if I could tell him, and I'm going to quote. The real burden of proof should be different. I quote: "As long as we prove the truth and justice with a voice more and not with argument and agreement, we will be a low and immature nation." Look, let's find a solution where we can coordinate. I think the proposal is correct. But we have to say where we're going to take the money from if we're already introducing intervention measures, which are usually not successful. And look, that's not my conclusion, because now you all know. The measures so far have brought nothing, measures bring about a free labour market, capital and free entrepreneurship, tax cuts, no increase, free entrepreneurship and a reduction in public consumption, not an increase. And that's not my conclusion. I can read it in any better textbook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Aloysius Potočnik is also spoken and then Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. It's been said so much today that it's hard to add anything. I have two contracts before me that have been signed in these three or two years. Both contracts are very similar, first of all I will start with the one that was signed earlier and has the title of the Treaty for Slovenia 2012-2015. In promoting the employment of young and older people, the signatories sign the following: "Youngers find it difficult to find suitable employment after school. For the early employment of young people who have completed schooling, coalition partners will set up specific programmes within the framework of active employment policy to encourage employers to include young people in the work process during schooling. For their first regular employment, we will provide them with special incentives in the form of reduced contributions or partial remuneration." Employers who will employ older ones will also receive similar encouragement, but this is another story. So here we are in the face of the problem that is opening today, and it needs to be read correctly because we do not talk to each other or to talk to each other. In doing so, I would like to move on to another matter, which speaks of a similar matter involving taxes. Today, it has already been said that contributions and taxes are significantly different if I am not mistaken. Of course, there's no big difference. Some are financed – according to you – probably if it comes from the pension budget, then there is no big difference, but I would say that you said that in the first year of taxes you would drive such a policy that you would not burden newly established businesses or entrepreneurs with taxes or, I quote, "... they will not pay taxes and after three years they will come to normal taxation". Your president then said that you prepared ten solutions for this in the first hundred days and one hundred solutions for Slovenia. I think that we are in very similar situations and that we have found ourselves in a similar economic situation, so that the difference between when you were making up the programme and today, when it is made up of the second coalition, there is no big difference. What did the second coalition say? In another connotation, she wrote in the fifth indent, 'in the start of the economy, the introduction of incentives for employers' contributions to new jobs' and in the next indent 'implementation of incentives for employers' contributions to first employment after completion of regular schooling'. Gentlemen, you speak the exact same language and it is only necessary to combine both programmes in such a way that those who will give Slovenian potentials will be able to give to those Slovenian young people who will take us on. That's what you wrote down, gentlemen. I hope you won't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u256	Thank you very much. It's true, we wrote that down and we've done a lot of it. I'll be very specific. As you know, we have introduced the so-called Active Employment Policy Action First Challenge within the mandate of the previous government. This was then a new measure that allowed incentives, a subsidy to the employer who hired the young person for the first job. That was the first challenge. This is the fulfillment of what you said. Is it true or not? Did we do this? We are. Some 3,000 young people received employment through this measure, amounting to just over EUR 20 million. We know exactly who paid, we know how many beneficiaries there were and so on. This has been subsidised or co-financed even by European funds. We have reduced our contributions to employment or to pension and disability insurance if someone in the first job employs a person under 26 years of age. That's what we did. We also reduced our contributions if someone employs an older person over 55 years of age. That's what we did. It's also in the pension law. We have fulfilled all that you have read; but with one difference from you. We have determined who is the payer of these contributions, that this is a state budget, and you just don't want to do it. How is this measure going to get out of the pension register? It's simple. In the measure under the pension law, we wrote that for young people under the age of 26, the State is paying contributions because we have burdened the employer. Of course, now anyone would prefer to apply this measure, where the employer will not pay anything, not only 50%, but the state budget will not pay anything for it, that is to say, the pension box will definitely be at a loss of income for which even after the current ZPIZ-2 would have revenue. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, but that's an extra blow to the pension fund. The pension fund is facing a huge deficit. I hope that it would be the task of all of us to consolidate this pension fund as soon as possible, that there is as much revenue as possible in terms of expenditure, that is to say that there is as little loss as possible in the state budget, and you are thereby increasing this loss and blurring out the rights of these people as possible. A simple calculation shows that with this measure there will be a pension box of around EUR 20 to 25 million and a health allowance of about EUR 10 million. I can explain later when I have five minutes. With numbers. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. I will start with an active employment policy last year. True, it was the First Challenge – 20 million. Interestingly, it shows that from January to June of last year you have included 10,000 people in active employment policy measures, from January to June of this year we have included 100.8% more, more than 21,000. This year, Slovenia had 6.1% more young people in employment than it had in last year. Last year, the use of European funds was also €40 million, which is the least that the European Commission has made very clear to us. It's going to be 90 million this year. We are talking so much about the reality and measures of active employment policy. In addition, the intervention measure will also do a number of things on active employment policy measures, particularly in the new financial perspective and in relation to youth guarantees or the Youth Employment Initiative, where additional resources will then be allocated. There is much debate and there is much to be said about whether it means breaking or contributing to the break of the pension register. Please tell me, what do we do to break the pension fund if we want to hire unemployed young people who are not paying anything at the moment? Maybe one day we're on the clear side of numbers. Last year there were 20,000 employees because you're using the term all the time, and you're saying that this year 20 thousand will be involved in this measure. You know why they won't be here? Because we've been setting 24 months as a condition. For example, according to SURS data, for persons between 25 and 29 years of age, the average duration of their employment is 13 months. So the fact that someone is going to hire for an indefinite period, 24 months, is not so self-evident. The Labour Relations Act says that 1% more is paid for a certain period of time, so that you have done a lot – except that it sounds good. But if you pay for it, there are still very different conditions, and we'll see how that happens. [[...]] The fact is that the conditions in this law are quite acute in view of the current situation in the labour market and that we do not grant this subsidy in any way, but we also want to make it possible for the first job, especially for an indefinite period of 24 months. However, for understanding it must be made clear that it is not a threat to any of the cash due to the fact that it will be paid substantially, more than it would have been paid if these young people did not get a job. And that's the only purpose of this marriage. And that [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] You know exactly what you know, Mr. Visac. You know exactly why you're doing this today because you're doing the budget, you know exactly what this is about, and you know exactly why you're doing it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Now there's a mag. Andrey Shircel, and then I see a desire to discuss it. Mr. Pojibich has raised his hand. But I suggest that now the Mag. Andrej Šircelj receives the floor first, and then I will open the application to the debate if you feel that the amendment tabled to Article 3 still needs to be discussed. I warn you well-intentioned, please identify yourself on the amendment table and Article 3. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think we have all said several times today that we support this article, we support that employers will not pay part of their contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance, and there is no dilemma here. The second point is to suggest that, because less money will be paid into the pension and disability registers and in the health register, it is written that this mannequin is hiding the budget. That's all. If we look at it, it pays the budget, the Slovenian budget, already today some pension and disability allowance, because the pension and disability bills do not reach with the contributions of sufficient funds. I think there are about a billion and a half of these funds that are already going from the budget to the pension and disability allowance and there is no problem that this is not going to continue. However, it is only that this lack of resources also replaces the budget. Why? So that the pensions are on the same level. Why? To ensure that health services are at the same level. Why? In order to protect all current and future pensioners in order to receive decent pensions, such as they receive after the calculation made by the ZPIZ. The same applies to health care; that health services will be such and not because employers do not pay part of their contributions will not reduce the quality of health services. Now, if I move on to what has already been said today, among other things, that taxes and contributions are about the same. They're not! Contributions shall be made either for a health allowance or a pension allowance. Taxes are spent on anything, including pensions, can also be spent on roads, can also be for safety and so on. That is to say, if we are talking about contributions today, we have a strictly dedicated source from which only pensions, invalidity pensions, everything that needs to be covered in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and what goes into the health care department. For this reason, there is only one question: ensuring equal rights, ensuring the rights that current pensioners, future pensioners can have, and providing quality services such as they are now. No matter what, something's missing. This measure is not new after all, and this measure has been adopted since the 1990s in the Law on Taxation on the Profit of Legal Persons. It was just then, and it was also stated there that this manco, it facilitates, if you want, hiding from the budget. And that's all it really is. And I don't know why it's like this, I'll say, the opposition to providing the same service, the same pension, none of which would make anything worse. That's all there is to admit! And it'll be taxed! Perhaps from a higher value added tax, perhaps from a better collection of taxes, perhaps from the short, from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] But once again, we all agree that this relief must be introduced, that there must be a relief for employers, that such a relief should probably be introduced for someone else, for another target group, that employment should be encouraged, that young people should also be raised – I think we have received 9 million out of 6 billion. That's what this success is, as far as I know. Out of six billion nine million! Three billion went to Spain and so on. But this needs to continue, we need to continue, we need to get more money for young people, not just 9 million out of six billion. I propose that, because of the transparency of public finances, in order to ensure the same quality of health services, the same level of pensions should be ensured, that this amendment is not supported now and that funds not paid under this Title are covered by the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you very much. You've got your word. I see Mr. Pojbich, Mr. Tank, that I would like a word. Can these two discussers then? [[...]] Mr. Brulc, do you still want to discuss it? Then I'm opening an application for discussion. I suggest that you really focus on the amendment tabled and Article 3. I'm opening an application for discussion. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u262	I'm sorry I'm first because I'd rather be last. But, look, I signed up like everybody else. I said I would serve with one such simple calculation as we have come up with these €50 million financial implications that it will have. The government states that 20 000 people were employed last year without this measure, even without the measure now in SPIZ-2, that is to say this partial subsidy of contributions to the pension fund. In short, we can count on employers, even if this measure were not adopted in 2013, to employ 20,000 people. That's how we can count. At the same time, it is worth stressing that we have tightened employment for a certain period of time, because in the same workplace with the same person, contracts can no longer be chained for a certain period of time. This means that many employers will already be forced to work indefinitely because of the Labour Relations Act, if they do not, of course, break the law. This is said to be the case that we can expect that some trend in time-consuming employment will also occur due to labour law. If you go against this measure, that is to say, there will be a likelihood that out of these 20,000 people who would work anyway, a large majority will work to benefit from this subsidy, that is logical. This is said to be not only 5,000 new beneficiaries who would otherwise be unemployed, but also a good part of the 20,000 already employed, but now that this measure is available, this is logical. After all, company staff services have the task of looking for all the measures to make the employer's best work come through, that's perfectly logical. Which means, under the assumption made by the Ministry, that if it pays this new employee somewhere between the minimum wage and the average salary, the employer will save around €4,000 for these contributions in two years, which means €2,000 per year. It will save 2,000 euros a year. And if we speculate that out of these 20,000, for example, 15,000 people will be employed for an indefinite period of time that would otherwise be employed in 2013 and five additional ones, which will only be for this reason, we can count on 20 thousand people to be employed on the basis of this measure. 20,000 times 2,000 euros is 40 million euros. Of these, about 10, 15 are medical bills and some 25 to 30 are pension bills. It's a very simple calculation, and whoever throws it away. It is said not to say that this measure will not affect these cash registers, that it is not an attack on these cash registers. Yes! Tell me, how will the medical treasury suffer an additional manna of 10 million euros, in the face of the problems it already has today? I believe that the Minister would not have defended this measure so much if the financial consequences were indeed insignificant. But since he knows that there will be financial consequences, and he knows that he has no money for these contributions, he resists. Makes sense. So, respectable! We support the action, today is a word and a debate only on whether this amendment – not or a measure yes or a measure no – but whether the amendment eliminates the lack of contributions from the state budget. That is to say, we are only going to make sure that the payer of contributions is also determined in accordance with all insurance policies. If we are not able to address this relatively banal measure, which we all support, also this mandatory instrument of transparency, then I really do not know how it is written to our public finances in the future. Once again: the young people to whom this measure is intended will pay this, because the account for these measures will come with a delay, but it will certainly come and will certainly be paid disproportionately by those who will pay taxes in the future. There won't be much between us then among the taxpayers. So if we are already setting up and establishing such a measure today, it is also fair for us to pay it or the budget is now paying it, not the next one when such an invoice will come.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u264	One truth is found together. This is what we want young people to do. Now, though, who pays the difference, for the self - employed pay one tenth of the contributions. Who pays the difference? We do. The Espeis pay one half of the contribution. Who pays the difference? We do. Farmers pay one third. Who pays the difference? We do. The law determines who pays the difference on these occasions of solidarity. We'll probably sell some assets. Mr Šircelj will find that even from a bad bank there will be something going on for these purposes, and this will also be covered by our contributions, taxes or whatever we call it. Look, the threat is that when a young person comes later on to PIZ for retirement and someone will say that he hasn't paid for two years so it will be if you're in power. [[...]] You have done this for some NOB members and so on, who have not paid, and now — willingly by pension. Don't you? That's right! We fixed it with great pain and many words. If you're in power, I hope never, then those young people will really have to work two more years because now they'll be subsidized with our money, including mine. Medical checkout. Young people go much less to a doctor than we are older, and they will not be burdened with their desires for health because they obviously have it, and that is good. Once again: the budget will pay this difference. What are we bluffing and telling each other and going to some thousand euros? It's a budget. Who's filling the budget? We do. Tax collectors who have a little more and so on. I don't think there's any point in discussing these content anymore. I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. For a long time there has been so much debate about the thing that we all agree on. This time, I think, for the first time in this mandate, we have developed this debate, in particular a coalition that is trying to set something up for the opposition that supports its action. Any serious economist you ask will say that justice causes a cost and that the cost has to be hung in a cost place. This is actually the first time in this situation that we know about justice that there will be a cost and you do not want to admit that it will have to be posted to a cost place. You can ask Stiglitz that is so, ask any serious economist in this Hall of the National Assembly. Just some people who are not economists or have missed something in the economy, you don't want to admit that it's going to have to be located somewhere. Maybe the FDV is a special college where they don't want to define the cost place. But if we asked any professors at Economics College, I'd explain it nicely. Justice causes a cost, and this cost has to be paid by someone. This is said to be the case with the carrier. Mr Brulc earlier said that one day he would pay the budget. Maybe. Maybe not. And what you know now that someone is going to pay for this is that we, or in this amendment that was adopted at second reading, are defined. This is precisely the definition of who pays this bonus for the employment of young people. I think it is clear to you all that one country has already failed because of this – not only because of this, but also because of this – because they knew what their rights were, because these rights caused costs that no one has been hanged and only the negative balance has grown and eventually there has been a collapse. I think we're mature enough in this National Assembly not to support something like this. It is entirely inappropriate that things that do not want to be defined, where the payer does not want to be defined, be hanged temporarily or permanently one or the other cash, pension or health. That's irresponsible. I think we're so mature in the National Assembly, we know who's going to pay for it. That's the standard, that's the minimum. One attack has already taken place in this mandate through the adoption of the State Property Sales Programme, according to 14 companies and one bank, and the pensioner has lost 10% of the purchase. If it followed the model proposed by the previous government, you rejected it, it would be done because it runs differently because it also defines it differently, it is a flaw. And in this case, in addition, now that we are talking about these matters, both cashiers will be burdened without anyone refunding it. If these rights are not covered, it is likely that one day a new coalition will come, a new government that will probably act in the same way as it did now in some categories that had recognised rights and then were not taken into account at the time of retirement, because there was no payer for these things. I don't think there's any need for this coalition and this National Assembly to act so irresponsibly. Everything you know will happen is arranged in a solution that you voted on in the second reading. Everything else will be an unspecified system with unknown consequences. No one knows if this will ever be settled or not. If you want things to be transparent, so that we don't hang up some imaginary institution and leave it for some bright future, then these things need to be defined as defined by the adopted amendment that we tabled. I propose that you reject this amendment and that it remain in the solution that has already been put to the vote. Everything else is a departure from this, and now it's an economy that's not worthy and there's no serious solution to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u268	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In opening, I must say that I will not support this amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Not only will I not support it, I am convinced that this is one of the biggest failures of this coalition and the government, which is trying to re-inherit Slovenia and this budget under the pretext that it wants to help young people. At the same time, I am sure that no one in the State Assembly can and should sit in the government, and absolutely no one who does not realize the situation in this country, the situation of young people in this society, and who does not realize that it is necessary to help young generations to work and to work first. He's not here! This time we can't share with any party, this time it's a fact and a clear thing. Together, we are responsible for this young generation of ours, but certainly not in the way you are now trying to do. The Slovenian Democratic Party and I personally support this law and will support it if, of course, you, the coalition, step back and do what is your responsibility to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia; to tell them where these obligations will be paid by who will pay for it. Will our grandchildren pay for this? I don't hope to look into my granddaughter's eyes and I owe her 10, 20, 50 thousand, and I don't know how many euros in advance before she even has a chance to influence what's going on here. Who in this society has this right? Who, tell me?Oh, my God! Tell me who! No one, my dears! No one, not me, not you sitting here. That we will be indebted to those who do not have the opportunity to influence what we accept here in the National Assembly. I've never been here and I don't want to be. It is right for the Slovenian public to know clearly what this is about. And that it is not by chance that one of those and others who may want to distort some truth a little bit would explain that we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I against the fact that we are hiring young people. So that we do not help them or seek solutions to help them! Don't let that happen! It is therefore right for us in this House to say clearly before the entire Slovenian public that we have a clear objective, a common goal. However, I ask you kindly: why is it such a problem for you to write down that the payer of this state budget today, now, tomorrow, the morning and all the time that this subsidy will last? Why is that a problem? It is our only transparent duty, not justice, duty, and God do not hope that someone will go in a different direction and do everything else, only what is necessary, crucial and important and necessary and transparent. The Slovenian public must know that. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am speaking only with one clear and only goal of helping the young generation on the one hand, and on the other hand we make it clear that today we are the ones who are going to pay for it because we want to help because we are obliged to help these generations get to work. In your constituency, in your environment where I live – go take a look! Half my friends are young, all generations. Ask me whether they trust me or believe me; and this is important Even if we do here as I think it is only fair and fair, then there will be no dilemma, no problems. Today, this law could be adopted within five minutes or after a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups if the coalition did not stubbornly insist on solutions that are unacceptable to our grandchildren, our daughters, and so on. Once again, please remove this amendment, which is a embarrassing amendment, this coalition and the Government should not allow if it works and works in the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you very much. As I see now, all the speakers who have submitted an amendment to Article 3 have been given the floor. I suggest we move to the vote. We vote on the amendment tabled. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, would you like to discuss it? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't want to get involved in the debate before, because I didn't think it was really necessary, but not just that, I'm going to say that even in some way a disgrace to the National Assembly. You know, there are spears breaking on young people in this case, which I think is unheard of. We have heard on several occasions that measures are both urgent and necessary, and when necessary, we are all at the principle level for such measures. And I'm going to tell you in particular at the health department why I'm going to support this amendment. Some of you have wondered what will happen to the medical checkout, and even now there is a hole in the health treasury. Hypothetically: if we have an unemployed person today, he pays for health insurance or 14 euros, he can either be on his parents' shoulders or he doesn't pay anything. In the event that we employ an unemployed person after this new law and after this amendment, I hypothetically say, which has a thousand euros in wages, half of that 6%, 60 euros in health insurance, which means that the health treasury will absolutely be on the plus. Those who worry about where the other part is, the other half, I'll ask you: farmers pay only half, and that's not the problem. No one wonders why. Pensioners pay only half, but it's not a problem, and it's not a problem. I think that these debates that have taken place today in the National Assembly are entirely unjustifiable and are simply about triggering some populism. As it is said, I will absolutely support the proposed amendment, but I am sorry that the amendment was not supported in a timely manner, because if supported in a timely manner, we would save some time of these painful and really unnecessary discussions. Since I spoke on behalf of Positive Slovenia, Positive Slovenia supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we will oppose this amendment, which again seeks to cloud the payer of these missing contributions. We are absolutely in favour of this measure being introduced, but we are in favour of a transparent one; and it is not true that spears are being broken here on a generation of young people or any generation. The spear is broken because of the transparency of the public finances you want to achieve. You want to achieve rights, but you do not want to appoint a payer for these rights. I think that the basic principle of the insurance principle is to make it clear that if we exempt someone from the payment of contributions and at the same time write that they have all the rights, we must also tell them who will pay for these missing contributions. That's all. So here the spears do not break on the young, on the contrary! We all want young people to have as much employment as possible, but we just want the measures proposed by the Government to be such that they also bear the sustainability when we talk about public finances and nothing else. There's something else I'd like to say. It is true that this measure is very sustainable if only those who would have lost their jobs were included, because this measure will be taken and they are hired – you are absolutely right. But the problem is that you can't separate them from those who would have worked anyway, and there were 20,000 in 2012 and there's no reason that there wouldn't have been 20,000 in 2013. So these five thousand, which are actually going to increase the inflows to the health treasury, need to add these 20,000, which will significantly relieve the income to the health treasury and also to the pension allowance. And there's no hero to figure out how only the 5,000 he's gonna find and only the 5,000 he's going to subsidize, and the 20,000 he's going to get involved in one way or another, he's going to get out of this. Everyone will be granted the measure, we expect this measure to hit about 20,000 people and if it hits 20,000 people and if it is saved on average – or if you forgive, it costs about 2,000 euros at the annual level, it is 40 million euros. If we're more conservative in these predictions, it could be about 10 million less, but it's still 30 million. Surely these are not minor consequences. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we insist on the solution adopted in the context of the second reading that the payer of such exempt contributions is the State budget, and also to stress that the other categories to which the lower contributions are provided are determined by law. Lower contributions — why so, we can open up a discussion and make a contribution because of me. However, none of these categories are exempt from paying contributions at a statutory rate, as you are now proposing. There is no exemption, there are lower rates of contribution. Look, that's why we're legislators to fix them. But I'd be sorry. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] for the first time this category without a clearly defined payer and we support this burden being taken over by the state budget instead of by employers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-15-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. Amendment of the PS, SD and DL parliamentary groups. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 37. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 37]] . I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly and welcome you to tomorrow's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
